DRN-4222776
The complaint
Miss F and Mr K are unhappy with how theyve been treated by A Mortgage Now LLP 
(AMN). They believe theyve been left in a financially worse position because of this. 
What happened
Miss F and Mr K already held a mortgage when they approached AMN for advice in 2020 
about taking out a new product. After discussing different options, Miss F and Mr K said they 
wanted to proceed with a three-year deal with lender X. However, AMN had submitted an 
application for the two-year deal instead. After discussions, Miss F and Mr K proceeded with 
the two-year deal. 
In 2022, Miss F and Mr K approached AMN again for advice as their existing deal was 
coming to an end. AMN indicated they would be able to help, but that with the way the 
existing mortgage product worked, they needed to wait until the beginning of November 
2022 before arranging a new rate. 
Miss F and Mr K provided information requested by AMN nearer the time. On 
1 November 2022, AMN mentioned that its compliance team was looking at the case, to do 
with the lending being on an interest only basis. On 2 November 2022, AMN told 
Miss F and Mr K that it couldnt arrange the re-mortgage, because if Miss F and Mr K made 
a future complaint, it would be left exposed. 
Miss F and Mr K complained that AMN had told them it would be able to arrange the re-
mortgage and hadnt mentioned there could be an issue. They said they had since found out 
that AMN had failed to advise them they could have secured a rate earlier than November 
2022, if they had paid an Early Repayment Charge (ERC).  
Miss F and Mr K also complained that AMN had made a mistake in 2020 when it arranged a 
two-year deal instead of the three-year deal they had wanted. They said theyd been left 
worse off because of AMNs errors and the way in which theyd been treated.
AMN didnt uphold either complaint and Miss F and Mr K referred their concerns to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator here issued an opinion not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, they said that in 2020 AMN had offered to change the deal to the 
three-year option Miss F and Mr K had initially wanted. But that Miss F and Mr K had 
decided to proceed with the two-year deal and they didnt think AMN had unfairly influenced 
the decision.
In terms of what happened in 2022, the investigator noted that Miss F and Mr K wouldnt 
have been able to arrange a new product before 1 November 2022 without incurring an ERC 
and that if AMN had suggesting Miss F and Mr K pay the ERC to secure a rate early, this 
wouldnt have represented good advice at the time. 
The investigator said that whilst AMN saying it couldnt arrange a new deal would have been 
disappointing, they didnt think this had caused Miss F and Mr K a financial loss, because 
they were in the same position they would always have been in and were free at that point to 
secure a rate elsewhere, without incurring a penalty. 
Miss F and Mr K did not accept the investigators findings. They emphasised a number of 
points they didnt think had been fully considered, including the following (in summary):
- They were concerned AMN hadnt supplied recordings of all of the calls that had 
taken place.
- They only decided to proceed with the two-year deal in 2020 after AMN had said it 
would be easy to flip the deal at the end of the term and after the adviser had said 
they thought interest rates would remain low.
- AMN was wrong to say that the first contact in 2022 to discuss the mortgage had 
been in September. They had first contacted AMN before September because they 
were very concerned about rates rising.
- They would have paid the ERC to secure a lower rate. They found out about this 
possibility after contacting lender X direct after AMN had said it couldnt help. They 
hadnt contacted lender X before this point because AMN had warned them about 
making any direct contact and that it was always better to go through a broker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate Miss F and Mr K feel strongly 
about the situation but I havent found that AMN caused them to lose out financially. 
Whilst I appreciate AMN saying it wouldnt be able to secure a new rate at the beginning of 
November 2022 wouldve been disappointing  and surprising, I dont find that this 
represents an error as such. And in the end, Miss F and Mr K were free to arrange a rate 
elsewhere at that point on fundamentally the same terms as if AMN had been willing to 
arrange another rate.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint.
And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I 
set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the 
submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have 
been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Before addressing what happened in 2020 and 2022, I note that Miss F and Mr K are 
concerned that AMN may not have provided recordings of all of the conversations that took 
place. Having listened to all of the recordings provided by AMN as part of its file, I think it 
likely that all recordings have been provided.
I say this because each call makes sense in the context of the calls that came before and 
those that happened after. I have also heard the discussions that Miss F and Mr K have 
raised particular concerns about  where the adviser said it would be possible to flip the 
rate and where the adviser said that Miss F and Mr K shouldnt contact lender X direct.
2020Both sides agree that AMN initially made an error by submitting an application for the two-
year rate, rather than the three-year rate that Miss F and Mr K had selected. However, Ive 
listened to the calls that took place at this time and it is clear that AMN told Miss F and Mr K 
that it could switch it to the three-year rate if that was what they wanted. Miss F and Mr K 
initially said that yes, they did want to do that. However, Miss F subsequently called to say 
that actually they wanted to stick with the two-year rate.
I appreciate that Miss F and Mr K have said they only did this because AMN had said it 
would be easy to flip the rate at the end of the two years. Ive listened to the call where 
AMN said this and I consider it was an honestly held view  that it would be straightforward 
to secure another rate at the end of the term. 
Miss F asks the adviser what rates were likely to do over the two-years and the adviser does 
say they think interest rates will remain low due to Covid. However, they framed the 
statement in such a way that made it clear it was not possible to be say for sure what would 
happen with interest rates. And that is correct - no-one could know for sure what would 
happen to interest rates.
So although interest rates rose during the two-year period in question, this doesnt mean that 
what the adviser said in 2020 was incorrect or inappropriate. At the end of the particular 
phone call, Miss F says they do want AMN to switch it to the three-year deal, before calling 
back shortly after to say they wanted to proceed with the two-year. 
In the end, it was Miss F and Mr Ks choice as to which term to opt for  the rates were very 
similar. So I dont find that AMN treated Miss F and Mr K unfairly in their handling of matter 
in 2020. 
2022
First, there is a dispute about when the first contact took place in 2022. Miss F and Mr K say 
it was earlier than September 2022, whereas AMN says it was at the end of September 
2022. 
Ive listened to all of the call recordings provided, including the three calls that took place on 
2 November 2022. At one point in the third call that day, Miss F says I rang you in 
September and then sent you an e-mail in September. This was in the context of 
Miss F and Mr K being disappointed that AMN had suddenly said it couldnt help to fix a new 
rate for them after the discussions leading up to that point. This suggests to me that the 
earliest contact was in September as, had it been any earlier, I think its likely Miss F 
wouldve said as much. 
The crux of Miss F and Mr Ks concerns about what happened in 2022 are they believe 
theyve lost out financially, because they couldve secured a lower rate before AMN had told 
them they could. They say AMN didnt tell them about the ERC, had told them not to contact 
lender X direct (preventing them from finding out about it) and that if they had known they 
could have secured a lower rate by paying the ERC, theyd have done this. 
As a start point, waiting for the ERC period to elapse before looking to secure another rate, 
is a sensible approach. It looks like Miss F and Mr K wouldve needed to have paid around 
£2,350 to come out of their existing rate and secure a new one, before the ERC free period 
began (from the beginning of November 2022). 
As above, the evidence suggests the first meaningful engagement between Miss F and Mr K 
and AMN to discuss what to do next, was at the end of September 2022. This means that if 
AMN had advised Miss F and Mr K to pay the ERC, they would be doing so with approximately one month left until they could secure a new rate without needing to pay the 
ERC. 
This would have meant paying the ERC not knowing what, if any, changes there would be to 
the interest rates being offered by lender X (or any other lenders) a little over one month 
from that point in time. With hindsight, one can look and say that a particular course of action 
would or might have been more beneficial than another, but what matters is the situation at 
the time. 
Miss F and Mr K have also said that they didnt know what an ERC was and that AMN told 
them not to contact lender X direct and instead always come to it as the broker. 
Miss F and Mr K say they heeded this advice and that this prevented them from finding out 
about the ERC option direct with lender X.
The ERC was set out in the mortgage offer issued in 2020, which Miss F and Mr K wouldve 
seen. I did listen to the recording where AMN told Miss F and Mr K not to contact lender X 
directly. Its not unusual for a broker to suggest that a client go through it rather than contact 
a lender direct. Theres nothing inherently wrong with a broker suggesting this. 
And I find that it doesnt make a difference anyway, because Miss F and Mr K saying they 
wouldve paid the ERC, potentially much earlier than the contact with AMN in September 
2022, is with the benefit of hindsight. The key thing here is that I think AMNs advice to wait 
for the ERC free period before looking to secure a new rate, wasnt inappropriate or wrong. 
This brings me to the last issue  that AMN told Miss F and Mr K on 2 November 2022 that it 
wouldnt be able to arrange a new fixed rate for them. I agree with Miss F and Mr K that 
AMN was positive in its interactions with them up to that point that it would be able to help 
and it didnt caveat that in any way. So I can understand why Miss F and Mr K wouldve 
been surprised and disappointed when AMN told them they would need to go elsewhere.  
However, whilst I appreciate this will have been disappointing and unexpected, I cant say 
this represents an error as such. Crucially (appreciating that Miss F and Mr K disagree with 
this), I find that Miss F and Mr K were in the same position financially that they were always 
reasonably going to be in and they were free to arrange another deal elsewhere at that point 
in time. So this is not a reason for me to uphold the complaint either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss F and Mr Ks complaint about A Mortgage Now 
LLP. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman