DRN-2468526
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda 
Financial Services (SFS), mishandled the lease agreement he had for a car.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr H entered a three-year lease agreement for a new car with SFS. 
Unfortunately, there were some issues with the car and a like for like replacement was 
arranged in March 2019.
In November 2019, Mr H received a text message from a third-party collection agent, 
working on behalf of SFS, asking him to arrange an inspection and collection of the car. Mr 
H contacted SFS and asked why he had received this text. SFS responded that it had been 
an administrative error and offered Mr H £50 as compensation for the unnecessary contact. 
SFS says it asked the third-party collection agent not to contact Mr H again. As Mr H then 
received further contact from the third-party collection agent, SFS increased the 
compensation to £150.
However, in January 2020, Mr H received a letter from a debt collecting agency due to a 
failed collection, asking for arrangements to be made to collect the car. Mr H complained to 
SFS. 
SFS says it investigated Mr Hs complaint and discovered that the original car had not yet 
been collected from the dealership, and there had been an error as the current cars 
registration number had been provided to the agency. SFS apologised to Mr H and 
confirmed that there was no adverse information recorded on his credit file.
In February 2020, Mr H had cause to call out roadside assistance, but his request was 
declined as he was advised that his car had been SORN, and so had no road tax. The 
roadside assistance company told Mr H that this meant the car didnt comply with the terms 
and conditions of its service.
Mr H complained to SFS. He said he had not been informed this action would be taken and, 
as the car was now untaxed, he had been using it on the road illegally and this may have 
had implications for his insurance cover.
SFS upheld his complaint. It said an administrative error had resulted in the declaration 
being made to the DVLA, and his road tax being cancelled. After discussing the matter with 
Mr H, it was agreed that SFS would reimburse Mr H three monthly payments made under 
the agreement, in recognition of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
SFS also arranged for the car to be taxed.
Mr H complained to this service as he was unhappy at the way SFS had handled his account 
and his complaints. He said he didnt accept there had been errors, but rather deliberate 
actions taken by SFS. He was very concerned about the implications of driving a car on 
public roads while untaxed, as this could have meant he was uninsured if involved in 
accident, and potentially left him liable for a road traffic offence.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
SFS had acted fairly in providing the compensation it had, and in offering its apologies to Mr 
H in response to his complaints. 
 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said SFS had deliberately acted to make 
things difficult for him. It had been hard arranging for the first car to be replaced and he said 
SFS had provided him with a poor service. Mr H thought the compensation didnt recognise 
the potential impact of using the car illegally on the road.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SFS hasnt disputed that Mr Hs account has been the subject of multiple errors, which 
appear to have stemmed from the replacing of the cars, and incorrect registration numbers 
being recorded in its system. 
Mr H has raised the difficulties he says he encountered dealing with the first car, but that 
isnt something I can look into or comment on. This is because, although the changing of the 
car is linked to these events, what happened when the original car had to be returned isnt 
part of this complaint. Mr Hs complaint to SFS was about the collection correspondence and 
the cancelling of his road tax.
Mr H has also said he found SFSs agents rude and difficult when he spoke with them on the 
phone. Again, this isnt something I can consider, as the way a business handles a complaint 
isnt in my remit as it isnt a regulated activity. If Mr H is unhappy about particular agents and 
their attitude and behaviour towards him, he will need to raise this with SFS.
Ive seen that Mr H feels very strongly that the things that went wrong werent due to 
administrative errors, but were deliberate actions targeted at him. I havent seen any 
evidence to support the argument that this was the case. I think SFS has provided a 
plausible explanation about the error with the registration numbers. It has apologised for the 
errors and provided compensation. There has never been a suggestion that Mr Hs account 
is anything other than up to date, and no adverse information was recorded on his credit file.
So, although I appreciate Mr H disagrees, I think its reasonable to accept SFS made 
administrative errors with his account, which led to the texts and letters about collecting the 
car and the road tax being cancelled.
I appreciate that finding out the car had been SORN would have been shocking for Mr H, 
and he would naturally have been concerned about the implications. But, when considering 
what is a fair award of compensation, I need to consider the actual impact. There havent 
been any insurance claims, or police involvement and I cant presume what the outcome 
would have been if these events had occurred. However, its reasonable to say that this 
episode will have caused Mr H unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Looking at the compensation that SFS has paid to Mr H, being £150 for the contact by the 
collecting agency, and three months worth of payments under the agreement, I think this is 
fair and reasonable when considering the impact on Mr H. So, I wouldnt ask SFS to do more 
to resolve Mr Hs complaint.For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman