DRN-3161994
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr K went on holiday abroad. Hes explained that when he arrived at his 
destination, he started to experience pain in his lower abdomen, and he noticed a lump at 
that stage too. Mr K said the pain was bad and became unbearable. So, he sought medical 
advice from a doctor.
Mr K said the doctor said the problem was a ruptured muscle and could only be resolved 
with an operation. So, Mr K called his insurer, Aviva, about the situation. Mr K said that when 
he spoke to Aviva it told him he would be covered under his insurance policy for the surgery, 
and therefore to go ahead with it. A couple of days later Mr K had the surgery, which was 
successful in resolving the issue. He was later discharged and returned home to the UK.
At that point Mr K contacted Aviva again to progress with his claim and provided medical 
reports from the hospital. Aviva considered these, and then told Mr K it wouldnt be able to 
provide settlement for the cost of the surgery. 
Aviva said the reason it couldnt cover the claim was because the surgery was not needed 
as an emergency. And the policy only covered emergency treatment. Aviva said the surgery 
was something that could have waited until Mr K returned to the UK  and surgery that could 
wait until a return home was specifically excluded under the policy.
Mr K felt this was unfair. He said Aviva encouraged him to have the operation and kept 
emailing to check he was ok following this. Because Mr K was dissatisfied, he raised a 
complaint with Aviva. But it maintained its position. So, Mr K referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy didnt cover non-emergency treatment that could wait 
until Mr K returned home. And, he said the problem Mr K had, an Inguinal Hernia, was 
something that wouldnt be considered an emergency  rather Mr K could have returned 
home. He also noted that the medical evidence suggested that he would have gone on a 
waiting list with the NHS for the operation. So, he thought Aviva had acted fairly in saying the 
surgery wasnt covered under the policy. 
Our investigator said hed listened to the call between Mr K and Aviva when Mr K first 
reported the issue and was satisfied Aviva hadnt given the impression that the surgery 
would be covered.
Mr K didnt agree. In summary he said:
The policy didnt have a list or what was or wasnt covered under it
The policy didnt cover anything because everything can be treated in the UK.
The hernia was unexpected and painful, meaning he was walking with unbearable 
pain. And this meant the situation was an emergency
Aviva didnt tell him his operation wasnt an emergency and wasnt covered, despite 
the fact there was time before the surgery when it could have done this. Rather it 
gave him the impression the situation was covered.
Before Mr K disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Mr K has explained how strongly 
he feels about this situation  and I understand his concerns. But Ive explained why Im 
satisfied Aviva acted fairly below.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr K doesnt feel Aviva acted in line with this. So, Ive 
considered his concerns. And, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Aviva did anything 
wrong in declining Mr Ks claim. Or in the way it dealt with the matter when Mr K contacted it.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Looking at the policy Mr K purchased, I can see the policy does explain what cover it 
provides. There is cover for various incidents under the policy, including cover for 
emergency medical treatment and associated costs. There isnt any other section of the 
policy relevant to Mr Ks circumstances. So, Ive considered whether Mr Ks loss falls within 
this section. 
To be covered under this section the treatment Mr K claimed for would need to be an 
emergency. Aviva says the matter wasnt an emergency. In cases such as this, I need to 
make a decision based on the evidence I consider most persuasive. And, in this instance I 
find Avivas position more persuasive. 
This doesnt mean I doubt Mr K was in a lot of pain. I do recognise hes said he didnt have 
any problems before landing at his destination, and that the situation then became very 
painful. But I think Aviva has acted fairly in saying the medical reports dont suggest 
emergency medical treatment, in the form of surgery, was needed at that time.
I say this because Ive seen the medical reports Mr K provided Aviva with. And, as Aviva has 
noted, there isnt anything within those documents to suggest the procedure was an 
emergency. The procedure was booked for three days after the initial consultation, with Mr K 
being discharged in the meantime.
Aviva has also provided case notes, which show it completed a medical review of the 
information it received about Mr Ks situation. And in those notes, Aviva said that a hernia 
would be an emergency if it was strangulated or incarcerated. But it notes there was nothing 
to suggest this was the case for Mr K in the medical reports. Instead, the hernia was just 
described as inguinal  meaning a hernia in the groin. And having seen the medical reports, 
this is what the medical reports said. 
As the hernia wasnt incarcerated or strangulated, Aviva went on to say that Mr Ks hernia 
was not an emergency. Whilst an operation would be needed at some point, it wouldnt be something that had to be done straight away. It said in the UK Mr K would be placed on the 
NHS waiting list for this operation. And based on my reading of NHS guidance, this does 
appear to be the case. So, whilst I appreciate the situation was painful, I dont think Aviva 
acted unfairly in considering the operation wasnt an emergency  but could instead wait.
 
I can see that Aviva did tell Mr K it was willing to consider additional information from the 
medical professionals he saw abroad. And Mr K said he could provide information to show 
the treatment was an emergency, as he would be visiting the country again soon. But I cant 
see any further information was provided to Aviva in this regard. And so, Im satisfied it was 
fair for Aviva to maintain its position.
In addition to the above, Mr Ks policy explains it wont cover the following:
What is not covered
()
6
d. Any form of treatment that your treating doctor and our Medical Emergency Assistance 
provider think can reasonably wait until you return home.
The treating doctor abroad hasnt passed comment on whether the treatment could 
reasonably wait until Mr K returned home. But as above, there isnt anything written within 
the medical reports to suggest an emergency that couldnt wait. And, Aviva, in looking to the 
NHS process for this type of incident, recognised this was something for which Mr K would 
be placed on a waiting list for treatment. Meaning the treatment could most likely have 
waited until, and indeed after, Mr K had returned home.
Based on this, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in declining Mr Ks claim. Im not persuaded 
that the incident was an emergency, or that Mr K couldnt have waited to have the treatment 
until he returned home. So, I dont require Aviva to do anything differently.
Mr K has said he was misled by Aviva. He said that when he initially contacted it about the 
situation, he was given the impression that his surgery would be covered by the policy, and 
that Aviva encouraged him to go ahead with the treatment. So, Ive listened to a recording of 
the call Mr K had with Aviva on reporting the claim. Based on this, I dont think Aviva mislead 
Mr K. 
I say this because during this call Mr K told Aviva that he had a rupture in his lower 
abdomen, with the pain beginning around a week before. Mr K said he had an ultrasound 
and the doctor had said Mr K needed, and they could complete surgery on this. Avivas 
advisor responded to this and explained that before any kind of surgery went ahead it 
needed to review this.
The advisor asked Mr K to send in any medical information hed been given, for it to review. 
And, noted if the treatment was considered an emergency procedure it would get this 
authorised. Given what was said here, Im satisfied that Aviva was clear that before it could 
confirm whether the policy would cover the surgery it would need to review the evidence and 
decide if the procedure was an emergency one. So, I think Mr K was given correct and clear 
information about what would happen next. And Aviva didnt do anything wrong here.
In light of the above, my decision is that Aviva acted fairly in declining Mr Ks claim, and in 
noting it would need to review Mr Ks evidence before confirming cover on the policy. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman