DRN-3716857
The complaint
Ms J and Mr W complain that Accord Mortgages Limited wont agree to refund an           
Early Repayment Charge (ERC) that was applied when Ms J and Mr W redeemed their 
mortgage early. They feel they had no other option than to sell the property and redeem the 
mortgage early because they could no longer afford the repayments and Accord wouldnt 
give its consent for them to let the property.
What happened
In 2018, Ms J and Mr W took out a repayment mortgage with Accord for the purchase a 
property. The loan amount was £327,000 and the term was 31 years and one month. The 
purchase of the property was also made with the assistance of a Government Help to Buy 
equity loan.
The mortgage had an initial fixed period until February 2024 at the rate of 2.04%. After this, 
the rate would revert to Accords Standard Variable Rate (SVR) for the remainder of the 
term, which was at that time 4.99%.  
The mortgage offer set out that if Ms J and Mr W redeemed the mortgage before      
February 2024, an ERC would apply.
I understand that Mr Ws employer was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and in        
March 2020 Mr W was placed on furlough and then made redundant in September 2020.  
Ms J and Mr W have told us that this was a very difficult time for them financially and they 
felt they had limited options available to them. They say they considered selling the property, 
but this wasnt something they wanted to do because property prices were falling in the area. 
So, they decided they would ask for consent to let out the property for a year, which they say 
would have given them a chance to get back on their feet.
Ms J and Mr W say their Help to Buy loan provider agreed for the property to be let out, 
provided that Accord also consented to this. But in October 2020, Accord said it wouldnt 
give its consent to let the property because its policy at that time did not allow properties 
purchased with the assistance of a Help to Buy loan to be let out.
I understand that the property was placed on the market in March 2021 and an offer for 
purchase was accepted in August 2021. The mortgage was fully redeemed in October 2021 
and Accord applied an ERC of £9,102.86.
Ms J and Mr W have told us that they were able to continue to pay their monthly mortgage 
repayments up until the property was sold using their personal savings. I understand no 
repayments were missed or received late. 
Ms J and Mr W complained to Accord about having to pay the ERC, and in November 2021, 
Accord issued its final response letter. In summary, Accord said it wouldnt agree to refund 
the ERC because it was satisfied it was applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage agreement. 
Unhappy with Accords response, Ms J and Mr W referred their complaint to our service. 
Their complaint was reviewed twice, by different investigators. Both of our investigators 
didnt think Accord had acted unfairly in the circumstances.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of what happened to Ms J and Mr W. I do appreciate this must have been a 
very difficult time for them.
Ive thought very carefully about whether it was fair for Accord to charge the ERC when     
Ms J and Mr W redeemed the mortgage early.
Ive carefully reviewed the mortgage agreement, which makes it clear that if the loan is 
repaid before the end of the fixed rate term, then an ERC will be payable. Section 10, 
entitled Early Repayment Charges says:
Early Repayment Charges apply to this mortgage. See the table below for details.
The offer then sets out in a table that the ERC is set at a percentage, reducing over time, of 
the balance - illustrating what each percentage could be in cash examples.
Im therefore satisfied that the mortgage agreement contained a valid ERC clause, which 
meets the requirements set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).          
Ms J and Mr W agreed to the terms of the mortgage agreement, so Im satisfied the ERC 
was chargeable when the loan was repaid early and that Accord was entitled to charge it.
Ive gone on to consider whether it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case to expect Accord to refund the ERC, despite it being entitled to charge it.
Ive taken into account Ms J and Mr Ws point that they felt they were left with no other 
option than to redeem the mortgage early, because the repayments were no longer 
affordable for them and Accord had rejected their request to let out the property.I understand Accord wouldnt grant consent to let the property because its policy at the time 
did not permit properties purchased with the assistance of a Help to Buy loan to be let. I do 
appreciate Ms J and Mr Ws disappointment, especially because they believe their          
Help to Buy loan provider would have allowed it. However, lenders are entitled to set their 
own criteria based on the level of risk they are willing to accept, and Im satisfied from the 
evidence Accord has provided us with that this was one of its criteria at the time the request 
was made, and its decision was made in line with this. Its also not unusual for properties 
bought under the Help to Buy scheme not to be permitted to be let.  
Ive also taken into consideration the guidance provided by the FCA on what action lenders 
were expected to take to support consumers in financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. This included, amongst other things, allowing payment deferrals. Ive carefully 
reviewed the information available to me, including Accords contact notes for the account, 
and whilst I can see references to Ms J and Mr Ws request for consent to let and their 
requests for redemption statements, there doesnt appear to be any record of any requests 
for a payment deferral or support due to financial difficulty. 
Ms J and Mr W have also told us that they were worried about how taking a payment 
deferral or holiday might impact their ability to get another mortgage in the future and they 
felt that using their savings to fund the repayments was in their best interests. Im therefore 
not persuaded that they would have wanted or needed any concession which may have 
been available to them at that time. 
Ive also taken into consideration Ms J and Mr Ws comment that they feel the amount of the 
ERC feels punitive rather than it being a reasonable cost incurred by Accord. The rules of 
mortgage regulation (known as MCOB) say that any ERC must be a reasonable               
pre-estimate of the costs incurred to the lender as the result of the borrower repaying the 
mortgage early. 
It may be helpful to explain that an ERC can be calculated across a group of mortgages of a 
similar type. The lender doesnt have to calculate the actual cost to it of any individual 
customer repaying the mortgage early, but it can be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs 
of early termination across a group of mortgages of a similar type.
Accord has provided evidence to show how the ERC was calculated, and I am satisfied from 
this that the amount charged reflects a reasonable pre-estimate of its costs as a result of   
Ms Js and Mr Ws early repayment. 
Considering everything, I dont think Accord has acted unfairly by charging the ERC to       
Ms J and Mr W in the circumstances, and it follows that I wont be asking Accord to refund 
the ERC.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman