DRN-2751469
The complaint
Mr G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr G arranged a mortgage with RBS in 2001. And PPI was taken out at the same time. The 
policy would have paid a benefit of £350 a month for up to 12 months if Mr G had made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
This policy was sold during a meeting between Mr G and RBS. During that meeting RBS 
should have made Mr G aware he had a choice in buying the policy. Mr G says it was 
suggested he needed the PPI to get the mortgage. 
RBS has provided copies of Mr Gs mortgage documents  including a copy of the PPI 
application form. 
The application form has then been completed with some details about how much cover is 
required and some basic questions about Mr Gs employment and health at the time. 
I think the information on the form suggests that a discussion took place between Mr G and 
RBS about PPI and he chose the benefit amount that best suited his circumstances at the 
time. And based on what I know about how RBS sold policies like this I think its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear. Mr G has signed the PPI application form so, I 
think Mr G wouldve had the opportunity to question anything he hadnt agreed to or was 
unsure about before he did. 
So overall I think its more likely RBS made it clear to Mr G he had a choice about taking the 
PPI and he agreed to it  although I can understand why he cant remember this.  
RBS says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr G. This means it didnt need to check if the 
PPI was suitable for him. But it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for him. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information RBS gave Mr G about the 
PPI wasnt as clear and it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen about Mr Gs circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the cover. 
Mr G was taking on a large and long-term financial commitment which was secured against 
his home  which he was solely responsible for. So, the effects of not keeping up his 
mortgage repayments could have been serious. And I think having the security that Mr Gs 
repayments would have been made if he was unable to work would have been important to 
him. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Overall, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr G off taking out the cover. And as such, I dont think Mr G has 
lost out by anything RBS mightve done wrong. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his PPI  and whether RBS treated him 
unfairly. 
RBS has told us that the commission for Mr Gs PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how RBS has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Gs commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont think 
RBS treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr G back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman