DRN-4091868
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has unfairly declined 
her travel insurance claim.
Any mention of Red Sands includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs J took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. The policy 
was insured through Red Sands.
 
On 1 December 2022, Mrs J was travelling to the airport by coach for short trip abroad but 
due to heavy traffic as a result of a major incident, the coach was late arriving. Mrs J 
therefore missed her flight. The next available flight wasnt for several days so the trip was 
abandoned at this point. Mrs J made a claim to Red Sands for the cost of the unused trip. 
Red Sands declined the claim. It said that Mrs Js policy didnt cover her for abandoning the 
trip  she had only taken out cover for medical expenses and repatriation. Unhappy with this 
outcome, Mrs J complained to Red Sands saying she didnt abandon her trip, there were no 
alternative flights available. Red Sands didnt alter its stance, so she brought her complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the 
policy Mrs J had taken only provided cover for medical expenses or for repatriation, it didnt 
provide cover for the circumstances Mrs J had encountered. Our investigator also listened to 
the call recording from when the policy was sold and found that the cover limitations were 
clearly explained to Mrs J. 
Mrs J disagreed with the investigator. She said Red Sands should have done more during 
the sales call to make it clear there wasnt cover for this type of scenario. As no agreement 
could be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Js complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I say this because:
The policy schedule lists all the sections within the policy and details which are 
applicable to the policy Mrs J purchased. I can see that cover is only provided for 
Emergency Medical and Repatriation expenses. These sections of the policy do not 
provide cover for unused travel because of a missed flight. So, Im persuaded that 
Mrs Js claim isnt covered by the policy. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided to Mrs J also explains 
that cover is limited to medical and related expenses.
Even though Mrs J didnt receive a postal copy of the documents prior to her travel, 
she was provided with a digital copy  so information about her cover was available 
to her. 
Ive listened to the call recording from when Mrs J took out the policy, which was a 
few days before her trip. In the call, Mrs J is advised of the different options of cover 
and the cost for each one. After being given this information, Mrs J opted to take the 
lower cost option, which only covers medical and repatriation expenses. The call 
handler then repeats the limitations of the cover she has chosen, and Mrs J confirms 
that this is what she wants. Im satisfied that Mrs J was made aware that the level of 
cover she had taken was limited to medical and repatriation expenses only. 
I appreciate that what happened on the way to the airport was completely beyond 
Mrs Js control and so I can understand why she would be looking to her insurance 
policy to reimburse her for the unused trip. However, it is important to note that 
insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the relevant 
premium). The events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And Im satisfied that Red Sands clearly set out 
what is covered under the policy in the information provided to Mrs J. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Red Sands to decline Mrs Js claim. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman