DRN-4377468
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited has sent her notices to 
repay a debt which isnt hers.
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs M got a letter telling her she was in arrears for a credit agreement 
taken out for a mobile handset. She got in touch with Virgin Media to say shed not taken out 
a fixed sum loan agreement with them. Virgin Medias evidence showed Mrs M taking 
delivery of their handset in November 2022 so continued to expect her to repay what was 
owed.
Mrs M was unhappy about what had happened and brought her complaint to the 
ombudsman service. In support of her complaint, she provided details about her report to 
Action Fraud. 
Our investigator felt that Virgin Media had no reason at the time the agreement was taken 
out to believe this was a fraudulent account as their credit check matched. Its also the case 
that Mrs M took delivery of the handset. All correspondence was to Mrs Ms address 
although the email address and mobile provided at the time the account was opened was 
not in her name.
Mrs Ms complaint has been managed by her representative who asked for an ombudsman 
to consider Mrs Ms complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 September 2023. I believed there was insufficient 
evidence to show Mrs M had taken out the credit agreement and asked Virgin Media to 
cancel the credit agreement.
Virgin Media had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking.
I can see that a credit agreement was taken out in Mrs Ms name in November 2022. This 
was taken out through Virgin Medias webchat service. Fortunately Virgin Media retained a 
copy of this and has been able to provide this to our service.
I can see at the time Virgin Media also queried the fact that whoever was participating in this 
chat used a different email address to Mrs Ms. This on its own isnt enough to confirm 
somebody else was using Mrs Ms details to take out a loan. But I wonder why Virgin Media 
didnt investigate this further as they obviously had doubts about what was going on and the 
mismatch of details.
However from what I know about Mrs M, I think its highly unlikely she would be ordering a 
handset using a webchat service  she already has a mobile which she uses, and she falls 
into the demographic of those who dont necessarily renew their handset every year.
I can also see that whoever was taking out this loan was pretty au fait with the model and 
service they wanted. Mrs Ms representative has confirmed  and I see no reason to doubt 
this  that Mrs M isnt tech-savvy.
Ive seen the evidence Virgin Media has provided to show Mrs M taking delivery of the 
mobile phone handset. This isnt in dispute, but I dont think this is the whole story. Mrs M 
has told us that soon after, the individual  who she thought was the original delivery person 
 knocked her door again and told her theyd delivered to her in error. As Mrs M wasnt 
expecting a delivery, she was happy to give the item back to them.
Ive considered the possibility that what actually happened was Mrs M allowing someone to 
take out a loan in her name and subsequently a dispute arose. That is certainly possible, but 
theres nothing to indicate thats what happened here.
As soon as Mrs M got the letter about the agreement falling into arrears, she took this up 
with Virgin Media as she didnt recognise the agreement as hers. 
Virgin Media told us they checked the account details they were using to take the direct 
debits matched with Mrs Ms account. However Mrs Ms representative has told us this isnt 
her account. Mrs Ms bank account  and the only one I can see on her credit record  is 
with a different bank. This isnt the one where the direct debit payments were supposed to 
come from. 
Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence to indicate Mrs M took out the loan with Virgin 
Media. She didnt agree to the terms and conditions, nor did she benefit from the handset.
Therefore Virgin Media cant continue to hold her liable for repayment. They dont have 
grounds for this as I believe Mrs M didnt take out the loan.
Putting things right
I believe in the time thats passed, a default may well have been added to Mrs Ms credit 
record. This will need to be removed, along with any record of the agreement taken out in 
her name.
I am concerned about the impact this has had on Mrs M and I believe Virgin Media could 
have taken steps to alleviate this, knowing her personal circumstances. Overall I believe 
their actions added to Mrs Ms distress and Im going ask them to pay Mrs M £100 in 
compensation.
I have no power to ask Virgin Media to take any action on the related airtime contract as that 
isnt a regulated credit agreement so doesnt fall under our services remit. Im sure, 
however, in light of what Ive said they will take appropriate action to cancel that contract.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited to:Cancel the credit agreement in Mrs Ms name for a mobile phone;
Stop pursuing Mrs M for any debt related to this agreement;
Remove this agreement from Mrs Ms credit record; and
Pay Mrs M £100 for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman