DRN-4404338
The complaint
Mr A complains Lloyds Bank PLC refused to allow him to do a money transfer from his credit 
card to his current account. Hes also unhappy at the customer service received since.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr A went into a branch of Lloyds to do a money transfer from his credit 
card to his current account, to pay his rent. Mr A says he was told they couldnt help him at 
the branch counter, so pointed him to a phone  he made a call to do the transfer but was 
refused. He says he was told by the branch staff the reason this kind of transaction is often 
refused is due to risk, which he was unhappy with. So, he tried to close his accounts, and 
make a complaint. He said this resulted in three attempts, none of which went well as he felt 
matters werent investigated properly.
Mr A says the branch manager closed his accounts for him (although this didnt work), 
waiving a balance of 12p, and offered to submit the complaint. Mr A wanted a copy of the 
complaint, but says he was refused. He was later contacted by customer services, and he 
found the complaint registered was completely wrong. Mr A later found out his accounts 
werent closed as he expected, and in order to know what had actually been registered as a 
complaint, he had to do a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). Mr A says this fraudulent 
and criminal behaviour needs to be investigated.
Lloyds issued two responses  the second one superseded the first, so Ive focused on that. 
They agreed with Mr A regarding:
Concerns about how his complaint was originally handled  the complaint handler got 
some information wrong about being told he had to visit the branch with photographic 
identification
Being given an incorrect reference for his complaint  a complaint reference is pre-
populated, but if all details arent submitted then it wont be logged. The complaint 
wasnt logged, so Mr A was given the pre-populated details for a complaint which 
never ended up being registered
Being told he was a risk when trying to do a money transfer  this wasnt correct 
information
Lloyds said a money transfer on a credit card isnt a permanent facility and is subject to 
offers being available. Lloyds said no offers were available at the time of Mr As request. 
Lloyds said they could have explained this better to him but didnt do anything wrong in 
turning him down for the transfer. In relation to the interest incurred on a closed account, 
they said interest is charged one month in arrears, and they could see Mr A was making 
purchases up to the point the account was to be closed. Mr A made a payment on 
6 December 2022 which stopped further interest accruing, but by that time 97p had been 
incurred due to interest being charged one month in arrears. Lloyds said a credit of £18 then 
put the account into credit  and said this amount had been refunded to Mr A and the 
account was now closed.
In relation to the complaints process, Lloyds said it was resolved quickly but they were 
satisfied itd been investigated properly. And the branch manager read Mr As complaint to 
him because their systems have business sensitive information on their computers  which 
is why she wouldnt let him read it off the screen. Overall, Lloyds offered Mr A £200 
compensation for this in their response on 3 February 2023. Mr A told us in May 2023 the 
cheque bounced.
Mr A raised a number of concerns regarding the details contained in Lloyds reply  and 
ultimately asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so, and overall felt Lloyds had made some errors, but the £200 
compensation was sufficient to put matters right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr As complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something thats 
been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I 
think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Rejection of the money transfer
Mr A tried to make this transfer over the phone and was turned down. He wasnt though told 
the reason, and says hed have to have been transferred to someone else. He spoke to the 
branch, who suggested it may be because of the risk he posed as a result of his credit score 
going down.
Lloyds have accepted they made an error here and said actually the reason he was turned 
down is because he didnt have an offer on his account to allow him to do the transfer.
Mr A says though the terms and conditions of money transfers say theyll tell him if any 
offers expire. So, going through all of the reasons he thinks a money transfer could be 
turned down, he doesnt think any of them apply.
I have carefully thought about this point of Mr As, but Ill only be partially upholding it. 
Lloyds have said Mr A didnt have any offers on his account when theyve looked into things. 
To prove that theyve provided a screenshot which says id+v ok advised ch no mt offer 
available. Lloyds have said the call where this was discussed isnt available  so I cant 
listen to that. I wouldnt say a note by someone saying a money transfer isnt available is 
definitive proof of none being available. But, I can see it is a note recorded at the time, and 
Lloyds have told our service this was when Mr A reached the money transfer team  which 
given that was the purpose of his call, seems to match up. So, on balance, I think its unlikely 
the team who deal with money transfers wouldnt have realised a money transfer was 
available. So, I think Lloyds have more likely than not correctly turned down Mr As request.
But, I dont think the communication has been satisfactory. Lloyds didnt explain things on 
the phone, gave one explanation in branch, and then have given a third when investigating the complaint. In addition, I think Mr A has a point, where he says they were supposed to 
have told him if a money offer wasnt available anymore  as it appears one wasnt available, 
but Lloyds havent at any point said they told him this when they should have.
Ill consider this at the end in the putting things right section.
Account closure
Mr As concerns here are valid. He says he asked the branch manager to close his 
accounts, and it seems to have been accepted they said they would. The problem was 
further interest was due on Mr As credit card account  so it seems a proper explanation 
wasnt provided about what happens when a credit card account is closed  specifically that 
interest may still be due and wont be calculated until the next statement date.
This figure became 97p. I can see Lloyds said they wrote it off, Mr A says he went into 
branch to pay it off himself. And, its at this time he became aware of the £18 refund. Hes 
told us this was refunded to him by cheque.
So, it seems the only remaining issue here is, once again, the communication. I think Lloyds 
have ultimately given the right information. A credit card balance would accrue interest which 
is only usually calculated at the next statement date  but this information seemingly wasnt 
passed to Mr A leading to delays in his accounts being closed as hed asked. Again, Ill 
consider this at the end of this decision.
Registering the complaint
Ive noted Mr As concerns regarding registering the complaint  which includes the branch 
manager saying the new employee gave him the incorrect form to register a complaint. This 
was the first issue, the second was the branch manager giving him a complaint reference 
which ultimately turned out not to exist, and further issues regarding the accuracy and detail 
contained in the complaints submitted and responses received.
Im aware Mr A has concerns over his version of events being properly understood  as our 
Investigator said the new employee also didnt register the complaint properly and gave the 
incorrect reference. He says hes concerned this may have led to the dismissal of the new 
employee as they no longer work at the branch.
I wanted to put Mr As mind at rest, as I do think thats extremely unlikely. The new employee 
could have left for multiple reasons, but crucially I would say Mr A has made the allegations 
clear to Lloyds as it being that it was the new employee who tried to complete his complaint 
on a complaint form, but the branch manager who then gave an incorrect complaint 
reference and didnt submit the complaint properly on the system.
Turning now to when the complaint was first addressed by a Lloyds complaint handler, they 
got some of the facts wrong, and this caused additional distress to Mr A regarding the whole 
situation. 
Ultimately, once again, I find Lloyds have communicated poorly with Mr A which has added 
to his distress over the initial events.
DSAR
Mr A says this was processed within 30 days, but not all data was provided.I think its important to set out the scope of what I can and cant consider. I can consider 
whether Lloyds carried out the DSAR process in a way designed not to cause any distress  
so did they communicate properly, provide it in line with the timescales. But what I cant do is 
decide whether the DSAR included all of the information it should.
From what I can see, I think Lloyds have communicated appropriately with Mr A regarding 
the DSAR. Ive noted theyve asked for more information, and for him to fill in a form which 
he says hes not legally required to do so. He might be right, but equally from what I can see 
the request for more information and form was to allow them to track down all of his contacts 
with them. So, I dont think this seems particularly unreasonable or unfair.
I have noted Mr A said Lloyds didnt provide everything. In part, I think Mr A is referring to a 
complaint reference which he was given incorrectly by the branch manager  saying hes 
had no details about this. Lloyds have explained thats because this complaint was never 
properly registered, so there is no data to give. This seems like a reasonable explanation. I 
would have said Mr A can raise his concerns to the Information Commissioners Office, but I 
can see hes already aware of them.
Putting things right
As Ive noted above, Ive partially upheld:
Poor communication about why the money transfer failed
Poor communication about what happens when closing a credit card account with a 
balance that may attract interest 
Poor communication again regarding all things to do with the complaints process
Mr A says Lloyds actions are fraudulent and criminal. Im not able to decide whether Lloyds 
actions were criminal, only a court of law can do that. But Ive seen nothing to suggest they 
were fraudulent. Ultimately, I think Mr A has unfortunately been victim to a series of errors 
and poor communication. Ive seen nothing else in all of the extensive evidence hes 
provided to suggest otherwise.
In considering all of this, I have overall come to the same conclusion as our Investigator, that 
£200 compensation is a fair way to put this right. Ive noted Lloyds sent Mr A a cheque, 
which he says has bounced. So, Ill direct Lloyds to pay Mr A £200 compensation if they 
havent already. Lloyds would I expect want to make sure the cheque they previously sent 
hasnt been cashed which isnt unreasonable.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC have already made an offer to pay Mr A £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr A £200 if they havent already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman