DRN-1679198
 
The complaint
Mr F says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000 in one of the bank's 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mr F applied for the credit card. It 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr F says he wasnt aware PPI was an optional product. Barclays has provided the 
application form Mr F signed and this shows he indicated that he wanted PPI by ticking the 
'yes' box. The options to select or decline it were set out with equal prominence. Overall, I 
think Barclays made Mr F aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I can 
understand he might not recall selecting PPI on the form as the sale was so long ago.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr F so it needed to check if it was suitable for him. 
Based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr F told us he was 
entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months. He said he was 
entitled to redundancy pay too. Again, the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for up 
to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from 
his employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Overall, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mr F if he was sick or lost his job.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr F chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mr F wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr F about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr F, that was 
unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman