DRN-4491354
The complaint
Ms Q is unhappy with Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSAs) handling of a 
claim she made in December 2019 for damage caused to her home by a leak from her 
neighbours property.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Ms Qs building is covered by a block buildings 
insurance policy in the name of the property management company. The policy covers the 
building and each of the individual properties within it. As a beneficiary, or intended 
beneficiary, of the policy Ms Q is entitled to claim for damage to her property caused by an 
insured event.
Ms Q made a claim for water damage to her flat being caused by water escaping from the 
flat above. RSA has instructed various leak detection companies and loss adjusters to 
inspect the damage and investigate the cause. But Ms Q is unhappy with the slow progress 
of the claim. She also disputes the quality of RSAs investigations as the leak has reoccurred 
several times, so she doesnt feel RSA has done enough to identify the true cause of the 
leak, despite multiple attempts. Ms Q also complains that communication from RSA and its 
agents has been poor throughout.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Qs complaint should be upheld. She said RSA had 
appointed various specialists to assist in identifying the cause of the leak, and that Ms Qs 
neighbour had been advised what action needed to be taken to stop the leak, before 
remedial works to Ms Qs property could take place. She said despite the neighbour 
confirming works had been completed earlier in the claim, the evidence suggests full repairs 
werent completed at that time. And that since the neighbour confirmed the same again more 
recently, RSA hasnt been granted access to his property to confirm the quality of the 
repairs. So, our investigator didnt agree that RSA was responsible for the issues Ms Q 
complained about.
Ms Q didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach broadly the same outcome as our investigator. But unlike our 
investigator, I thought it would be fair to award Ms Q with some compensation for the impact 
of some poor communication on RSAs part. So, I issued a provisional decision to give the 
parties the opportunity to respond, before I reached my final decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. 
However, I am intending to award Ms Q some compensation for the impact of RSAs 
communication during the period of the claim Im considering. Ill explain why in more 
detail below.
Ms Q has complained that RSA has failed to properly identify the cause of the leak, 
on the basis that it has reoccurred on several occasions. However, Ive seen copies 
of the reports completed at various stages, which show that sufficiently detailed 
investigations were carried out. 
These investigations included pressure testing the heating system and flow testing 
the pipework, neither of which identified any leaks. The initial report explains that 
damaged tiles, grouting and sealant were allowing water to penetrate and pass down 
into Ms Qs flat.
While this is a block policy which covers both flats, damage caused by faulty or 
defective workmanship and/or damage which occurs gradually (such as the failure of 
grouting or sealant) is excluded. This means RSA was not required to cover the cost 
of remedying the issues which were identified as causing the leak. So, I dont 
consider it was unfair or unreasonable for it to provide the neighbour with instructions 
as to what repairs were required.
Ms Q has suggested that RSA was incorrect in its conclusions because the leak 
reoccurred after the neighbour carried out the repairs. However, the evidence Ive 
seen suggests that the neighbour merely applied additional sealant around the bath, 
in the first instance. Theres nothing to support that he remedied the damaged tiles or 
failed grouting. And a subsequent leak detection report from RSA confirmed that 
these elements, along with sealant around the shower screen, remained outstanding 
and were the cause of the leak. 
Ms Qs neighbour has since confirmed that the full required repairs have been 
undertaken. However, to the point of its final response letter in November 2022  
which is the point to which Im able to consider Ms Qs complaint  RSA had not 
been granted access to the neighbours flat to verify that the repairs had been 
completed satisfactorily.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that RSA has done enough to 
investigate and identify the cause of damage, and to pass it on to the personal 
responsible for carrying out the repairs. I dont consider it to be unfair or 
unreasonable that RSA wishes to confirm that the cause of damage has been 
rectified, before commencing with remedial works to Ms Qs flat. 
Ive also thought carefully about Ms Qs concerns about the length of time the claim 
has been ongoing. But based on everything Ive seen, I think the main reason the 
claim took as long as it did, during the period Im considering, was due to the need 
for RSA to deal with both Ms Q and the neighbour, and to be granted access to both 
properties at different times, which was unavoidable given the nature of the claim. 
There were also issues with contact numbers for Ms Q and the neighbour changing 
throughout the claim, and occasions where numbers were provided to RSA 
incorrectly, which added to the delays. So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me 
to conclude that RSA has been solely responsible for causing any unreasonable 
delays.It follows that while I sympathise with the situation Ms Q has found herself in, I think 
RSA has acted reasonably in the way it investigated and progressed the claim during 
the period Im considering as part of this complaint (up to November 2022).
That said, Ms Q has also complained about poor communication from RSA and its 
agents during the claim. She has provided various emails from different points 
throughout the claim which seem to support that she was having to chase for 
updates or contact on numerous occasions. There were also occasions where RSA 
and its agents continued to use Ms Qs old phone number for contact, despite having 
been provided with the correct number. 
So, while I dont think RSA is responsible for how long things took overall, I do think it 
could have done a better job of managing Ms Qs expectations and of communicating 
with her throughout the claim journey.
Ms Q has explained that she found the whole process very stressful and frustrating. 
Most of this will be as a result of the claim, and the time taken, which I dont think 
RSA is responsible for. But I think RSAs poor communication added to an already 
difficult situation and so increased the impact this had on Ms Q. So, in order to fairly 
put things right for the distress and inconvenience RSA has specifically caused, I 
think it should pay Ms Q £100.
Im aware that Ms Q has suffered further instances of water ingress since November 
2022 and has remained in contact with RSA about these. But Im unable to consider 
anything thats happened since November 2022 as part of this complaint. So, if Ms Q 
remains unhappy with how RSA has dealt with things since November 2022, shell 
need to raise those concerns as a new complaint  and with RSA in the first 
instance.
I asked both sides to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.
RSA responded to confirm it accepted my provisional conclusions and had nothing further to 
add.
Ms Q also responded, but she didnt add any additional evidence or arguments for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the absence of any new evidence or arguments to consider, Ive reached 
the same outcome set out in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Qs complaint in part.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Ms Q £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor communication caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman