DRN-1748580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI around the same time as arranging their mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the time of the sale, which is not surprising 
given how long ago it was. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In 
reaching my decision I have looked at the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know that they had PPI, meaning that it was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. They say they were under a lot of 
pressure at the time because there were complications relating to the house they were 
buying. Therefore, to ensure that they got the mortgage, they would have signed anything 
that was put in front of them.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up to 
cover only Mr H. And it covered him only for accident and sickness. This suggests that there 
was some discussion about the policy and that Mr and Mrs H gave some consideration to 
how it would best meet their needs. If, as Mr and Mrs H have suggested, the policy was just 
added without their consent, I might have expected them to end up with a more expensive 
policy that covered unemployment as well.
Mr and Mrs H have said they obviously didnt know they had PPI because Nationwide has 
said that it was a non-advised sale. This has obviously caused some confusion, so Ill 
explain a little bit further about the difference between advised and non-advised sales. An 
advised sale is where the bank would ask an applicant about their circumstances, which they 
would then take into account before recommending whether or not they should take out PPI. 
A non-advised sale (which is sometimes called an information only sale) is when the bank 
makes it clear that it is not recommending the policy, and doesnt look into someones individual circumstances, but instead it gives the applicant enough information for them to 
make their own informed decision about buying the PPI. But regardless of whether or not it 
was an advised or non-advised sale, the bank still needed to make it clear that an applicant 
didnt have to take out the PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Hs recollection 
of events has faded. On balance, based on the available evidence, I consider it is more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a choice about buying the policy. I think that they 
probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
As neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs H have any evidence about how the PPI was sold in 
this case (so whether it was in a branch or over the phone etc), I dont know whether it was 
an advised sale or not, but that doesnt make a difference to my decision. Because if it was 
an advised sale, Nationwide would have had to ensure that the policy met Mr and Mrs Hs 
needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for 
them.
Mr H believes his employer would have given him between three and six months full pay if 
he was off sick, which would then be reduced to a percentage of his usual salary. However 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr H would 
have received full pay for. And Mr and Mrs H didnt have any other means, such as savings, 
to fall back on. They have said that family would have helped. But other people cant always 
be relied upon as their circumstances can change. So it seems to me that Mr and Mrs H had 
a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult 
time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover, but Mr H wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider they had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no 
worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman