DRN-3479664
The complaint
Mr W, as a director, on behalf of N  a limited company is unhappy with a merchant 
services agreement taken out with EVO Payments International GmbH, Branch UK (EVO) 
and their ultimate decision to terminate the agreement.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to N and EVO. In my decision Ill mainly 
focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In June 2021, N took out a 36 month minimum term merchant services agreement with EVO 
to enable their business to take card payments. N has said EVO didnt inform them at 
application that they would be unable to take customer/card not present (CNP) payments. N 
says it was when they tried to take payments in this manner they realised there was a 
problem.
N raised the issue with EVO in early August 2021. Shortly afterwards, EVO let N know that 
theyd not be approving CNP with this account  due to Ns business model. They also let N 
know that theyd be giving 30 days notice to terminate the merchant services agreement 
and N would need to find an alternative merchant acquirer. EVO offered to waive the 
agreement cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill.
N raised a complaint with EVO as they were unhappy. They said theyd had to take time 
trying to resolve the issue, had lost out on potential business because of not having CNP 
functionality, suffered reputational damage and were having to pay higher costs with a new 
merchant acquirer. EVO didnt uphold Ns complaint. N then referred their complaint to our 
Service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As N 
didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
There are two main parts to this complaint. They are: what happened at the time of sale  
including the information both parties gave each other and secondly, what happened after 
the sale - including the contract termination decision by EVO.
The sale 
An email from N to EVO dated 8 June 2021 outlined that N had 81 transactions in the 
previous month, 36 of which were customer not present. N has later said that around 40% of 
all their transactions are customer not present  so its clear that N had a preference for 
having the option to take CNP transactions.
Ive then reviewed the merchant services application form. Ive noted on page three of the 
application it states:
The relevant part here is SecurityCard present. This suggests that either:
CNP wasnt agreed at the time of application; or
EVO were given the impression by N that the only transactions that would be taking 
place would be card/customer present; or
EVO have made an error and the application doesnt reflect what was discussed.
EVO told our Service in an email dated 22 February 2022:
We have a paperless system here whereby the sales agent fills in the information 
on the application form on behalf of the merchant. The sales agent does so based 
on the information given by the merchant.
It appears that we advised that we could supply MOTO functionality, based on 
the business description that was provided at the beginning of the process. 
[bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] This functionality was not actually 
established and the merchant subsequently requested it.
On balance, Im satisfied because of the above explanation and the previous email from N to 
EVO regarding CNP, that the reason CNP wasnt enabled was due to an error on behalf of 
EVO. 
When N realised early in August 2021 they were unable to take CNP transactions they 
notified EVO. Im satisfied that EVO looked into the issues with the intention of resolving 
them. Its unfortunate that N says they lost out on some potential business as a result, but 
Im not requiring EVO to take any action as no persuasive supporting evidence of potential 
losses has been provided as part of this complaint and Im satisfied that when put on notice 
about the issue, EVO acted in a reasonable manner to try and resolve it.
What happened after the sale?
Whilst trying to resolve this issue, EVO uncovered another issue around the nature of Ns 
business activities. This led to EVO looking in greater detail at the nature of Ns business 
and taking the decision to terminate their business relationship with 30 days notice. 
The application form had recorded Used Merchandise and Secondhand Stores as the 
business classification. In an email between N and EVO dated 9 August 2021, N stated:
Ive impartially reviewed and considered the evidence both parties have provided and the 
reasoning behind EVOs decision to terminate this relationship. Ive noted that:
N has window advertising outside their premises offering pawn broking (the service) 
they say they dont offer. Specifically, a window sticker that shows pawn broking 
with the text underneath stating: instant loans on valuable items. To the side of this, 
in a large font is: we buy, we sell, we loan; and
N has told us EVO are seeking to claim that we are a Pawn Broker based on our 
[third party advertising and social media websites] classifications.. We are not a 
Pawn Broker but if we choose to position ourselves in that segment on platforms for 
advertising reasons, that is our prerogative.
I dont find it unreasonable to assume that should the above not be a fair reflection of Ns 
business theyd have shown evidence of attempts to disassociate themselves with the 
services described. 
N have described a buy-back service:
We offer what is called a BuyBack service where if a customer wishes to sell us a 
product, we offer them a free 28 day option to buy the item back from us at a heavily 
discounted price. There is a change in beneficial ownership and it is not a credit 
agreement. Consequently, there is no interest charged. We simply charge a storage 
and handling fee. If the customer does not buy the item back, we simply sell it on. 
They are never in debt and they have self determination over what happens to the 
product whilst it is within the BuyBack option term.
It remains that, regardless of whether or not N are actually offering the services in question 
here, they are advertising that they offer them. 
I agree with the point made by N:
I do not doubt that Evo are entitled to decide how they operate and who they provide 
services to. HOWEVER, that should have been done before they opted in to a 
contract with us.
It would indeed have been much better for both parties involved here if the necessary due 
diligence had been carried out at the point of application, rather than afterwards.
The terms and conditions allow EVO to take the action theyve taken here to protect (in 
summary) their own interests and risk exposure - and I find that theyve treated N fairly, 
reasonably and inline with the agreement terms when choosing to end their business 
relationship.  
Other points raised 
EVO chose to give 30 days notice to N rather than immediate termination and waived the 
cancellation fee. As these actions are positive and in Ns favour, theyre not something Ill 
comment on or seek to interfere with.
N has made a point about if they tried to withdraw from the agreement theyd have been 
charged a penalty/exit fee - whereas they perceive theres no cost implication for EVO. As 
explained, EVO havent charged an exit fee and its also not within my remit to dictate to 
businesses what the terms of any agreement should be. EVO have lost a customer here and 
the nature of these agreements (which N agreed to either by signing an agreement or 
processing a transaction through EVO) generally doesnt result in a charge to the merchant 
acquirer (EVO) where an agreement ends prematurely.
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint N, but it brings to an end what our 
Service - in trying to informally resolve their dispute with EVO - can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman