DRN-3624969
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr O took receipt of a used car in March 2021. He financed the deal through a hire purchase
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car was about 11 years old and had already
completed about 53,000 miles.
He reported squeaking from the car to the supplying dealership later that month and a repair
was arranged. The dealership referred Mr O to their preferred repairer, but a successful
repair wasnt completed. Instead the dealership told Mr O that if he took the car to a garage
of his choice they would refund the repair cost. Repairs were subsequently completed to the
shock mounts and anti-roll bar in April 2021.
But during that repair Mr O says the garage noted some damage had been done to a wheel
nut by the previous repairer. Mr O returned the car to the supplying dealership in May 2021.
He emailed them on 22 May 2021 saying, I look to return the car and he explained hed
stopped driving it.
The dealership took the car back and repaired it in June 2021 but on 7 June 2021 Mr O
emailed the broker telling them that the car had been repaired but a new sound and problem
had arisen subsequently. He said hed reached a decision to return the car to the dealership
and explained he didnt want to keep it anymore.
The following day the broker emailed telling Mr O he couldnt return the vehicle. They
subsequently explained that was because the dealership had the right to carry out a repair.
A further repair was therefore completed and on 16 June 2021 BMF emailed Mr O explaining
that the car was ready for collection. They said if he refused to collect it they would deem the
car abandoned and would issue a default notice to him, collect the car, and sell it. Mr O 
didnt collect the car. He referred his complaint to this service and explained that the
dealership still hadnt refunded the £220 it cost him to carry out the initial repairs.
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint. He thought the car had been of unsatisfactory
quality, but he didnt think Mr O should be allowed to reject it and end his agreement as he
thought there was evidence hed sanctioned the most recent repairs. He thought BMF
should refund the £220 repair cost, refund half a monthly finance instalment for the time the
car was being repaired and pay Mr O £200 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and neither did BMF. So, the complaint has been
referred to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but whilst I agree with the investigators view that this car was
of unsatisfactory quality I dont think the repairs were sanctioned and I think BMF should now
allow Mr O to reject the car. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things,
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF,
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other
relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMF were responsible for the cars
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
BMF havent tried to dispute that these faults were present at the point of supply. I
understand that the car was quite old when it was supplied but it had only completed about
52,000 miles and I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have problems with the
shock absorbers or anti-roll bar at that point.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present at
the point of supply. So, I think the first repair to the shocks and roll bar bushes was BMFs
responsibility.
If the repair fails the relevant legislation explains that a consumer should then be entitled to
reject the goods. Mr O may therefore have been able to reject the car after the supplying
dealers choice of repairer failed to repair it in April 2021. But I think its clear that at that
point Mr O accepted that the car should be repaired. When he referred the car back to the
dealership with the broken wheel nut issue I think that was part of the initial failed repair.
Whilst it was the dealerships responsibility to rectify that I dont think it would be fair to say it
was a further failed repair.
So, when Mr O asked to return (reject) the car in May 2021 I dont think BMF had to sanction
that rejection.
But thereafter, when Mr O noted the problem persisted and returned the car for further
repairs, I think BMF should have allowed him to reject the car.
On 7 June 2021 Mr O emailed to say that there was a new sound and problem after the carhad been repaired. He explained he was returning the car to the dealership as it had been
too problematic and that he didnt want the car anymore.
On 8 June 2021 the broker told Mr O you cannot return the vehicle. They subsequently
explained that was because they had the right to carry out repair (sic) on the car.
Ive explained that the relevant legislation doesnt give the business the right to complete
further repairs and I think at this point Mr Os rights werent properly explained to him and
should have been.
Repairs were completed and an invoice dated 16 June 2021 explains that the brake pads
were replaced, suspension linkage bushes were renewed, the locking nut was fixed, and
some welding was completed to the exhaust. BMF emailed Mr O that day. They explained
that the car was ready to collect and that if it wasnt, they would treat it as being abandoned
and issue a default notice.
Our investigator said that it was clear Mr O had accepted repairs to the car in his email of 18
June 2021, but I dont think he was given any option as its clear BMF would have defaulted
the agreement otherwise.
I think the car had been of unsatisfactory quality and that repairs had failed by 7 June 2021
when Mr O asked to reject the car. So, I think BMF should allow rejection from that point and
that they should end the finance agreement Mr O has with them.
I think its fair Mr O pays for the use of the car he had up until 7 June 2022 when he asked to
reject it. But thereafter BMF should refund any finance instalments hes paid towards it (or 
Mr O has been deprived of the money.
BMF should also refund the £1,000 deposit and the £220 Mr O spent getting the initial fault
repaired.
Mr O has explained that he has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to pay for
taxis for his family and to cancel his insurance. Its also clear he had to arrange to return his
car to the dealership on several occasions and that he had to arrange repairs himself when
the dealerships failed. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it
could have been resolved earlier by BMF. I dont think it would be fair to refund all Mr Os
taxi expenses as I think some of those costs could fairly have been mitigated by him e.g. by
using buses or getting lifts. But I do think there is evidence of distress and inconvenience
and some consequential costs, that would merit an award of £350 so Im expecting to tell
BMF to pay that.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Blue
Motor Finance Limited to:
Allow Mr O to reject the car and end his finance agreement with them.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O if this hasnt already been done.
Refund Mr Os deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments Mr O has paid since 7 June 2021 when they should
have accepted rejection of the car. Waive them if they were due but havent been
paid. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement to any refund.
Pay Mr O £350 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience causedand the costs he incurred as a consequence of the problems with the car.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
I subsequently provided an addendum to that decision explaining that I was also expecting 
to tell BMF to refund the £220 Mr O paid to have the initial fault repaired and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O accepted my provisional decision and so did BMF. They explained that the car had 
already been collected but that theyd received a report that suggested there was damage 
on the car beyond what would be considered acceptable wear and tear. They said they 
reserved the right to charge Mr O for that damage.
Putting things right
I thank Mr O and BMF for getting back to me promptly and, as neither party disagree with my 
provisional decision, that will now become my final decision on this complaint.
With regard to BMF considering damage charges, the finance agreement explains that:
You must keep the Vehicle in good working order and condition at your expense and you 
must have the Vehicle serviced in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations 
and any applicable warranty. You are responsible for all loss of, or damage to, the Vehicle 
even if caused by events beyond your control. However, you are not responsible for any 
accepted reduction in the value of the Vehicle where this reduction is as a result of fair wear 
and tear in normal usage.
So, if there is damage beyond what would be considered normal wear and tear BMF may be 
able to charge Mr O for the refurbishment of that damage. Theyll need to bear in mind that 
this car was eleven years old when supplied and I think a reasonable person would expect 
quite a bit of wear and tear to be present on a car of that age before it was supplied.
If refurbishment charges are pursued by BMF, and if Mr O doesnt agree with them, hell 
need in the first instance to complain to BMF about them. But if Mr O remains dissatisfied  
with BMFs response they will provide referral rights so he can escalate that part of his 
complaint to this service. Im not able to consider that now as i) BMF havent as yet made 
any charges, and ii) BMF have a right to consider any complaint from a consumer, and try to 
put things right for them, before the complaint is escalated to this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Limited 
to:
Allow Mr O to reject the car and end his finance agreement with them.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O if this hasnt already been done.
Refund Mr Os deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement.
Refund the £220 Mr O paid to have the initial fault repaired and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Refund any finance instalments Mr O has paid since 7 June 2021 when they should
have accepted rejection of the car. Waive them if they were due but havent been
paid. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement to any refund.
Pay Mr O £350 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused
and the costs he incurred as a consequence of the problems with the car.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman