DRN-3430041
The complaint
Mr R and Miss S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) allowed 
fraudulent withdrawals from an account. 
What happened
What Mr R and Miss S say
This complaint has been brought by Mr R and his daughter Miss S. As Mr R was the one 
who communicated with Halifax and this service, Ill mainly refer to him in this final decision. 
Mr R says that around 20 years ago he and his then wife opened savings accounts for their 
two children. The accounts were in the names of their children, but Mr and Mrs R were 
trustees on both accounts. Mr R says he and Mrs R paid into the accounts, but Mrs R took 
responsibility for maintaining the familys finances. In 2016 Mr and Mrs R separated and the 
divorce was finalised towards the end of 2018. 
Some time after the Covid pandemic Mr R was given online access to the accounts. He says 
that he then discovered that his ex-wife had removed £20,000 from Miss Ss account without 
having authority to do so. This money had been saved for the sole use of Miss S. Mr R says 
that Halifax has admitted that the account didnt mature as it should have done and that had 
it done so Mrs R wouldnt have been able to remove these funds. He also points out that the 
original account cant be held by an adult. Mr R and Miss S would like Halifax to refund the 
money Mrs R withdrew.  
What Halifax say
Halifax says the account didnt mature as it should have and the account the funds should 
have been paid into at that stage is no longer available. But even if the correct steps had 
been taken when the account matured the outcome would be unchanged. This is because 
the new account that would have been opened at maturity also required a trustee  so Mrs R 
would have been able to remove the funds. Halifax also pointed out that the terms and 
conditions of the original account allowed one trustee to withdraw funds in branch. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
accepted that the account didnt mature as it should have but concluded that even if it had, 
Mrs R as a trustee of the account would still have had authority to withdraw funds even when 
Miss S was aged 16 or over. The investigator went on to say that it wasnt for him to 
determine who was entitled to the funds.
Mr R and Miss S didnt agree with what the investigator said. Mr R said that Halifax admitted 
the account wasnt closed properly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering the evidence I can see that Miss Ss account was opened in 2002 
and Mr and Mrs R were both named as trustees. Ive been provided with details of all 
transactions on the account from January 2010 and can see that regular deposits were 
made, as well as some withdrawals. I can see that in April 2016 Mrs R paid £20,000 into 
Miss Ss account at a stage when the balance was £924.24. These funds were then 
removed between August 2016 and September 2020 leaving a balance of £815.52.
Its clear that Miss Ss account should have matured when she reached the age of 17 but 
this didnt happen. Halifaxs notes also say that the letter that should have been sent about 
the account maturing wasnt issued. Ive been provided with the relevant terms in respect of 
withdrawals from the original account. These say,
Withdrawals  in branch  cash, cheque or funds transfer  For Trustee accounts only the
trustee named on the account can request a withdrawal even if the child is 16 or over.
So for the original account its clear that even when Miss S was 16 or over Mrs R, as a 
trustee of the account, could withdraw funds in branch.
Ive also considered what should have happened when the account matured when Miss S 
was 17. Halifax has provided evidence that the funds would have been transferred to one of 
two accounts, both of which would be held by the trustee for Miss S. In the circumstances, 
even if Halifax had done what it should, Mrs R would have been able to withdraw funds from 
the new account. So I consider that although Halifax made a mistake in not closing the 
original account and transferring funds to a new account it wouldnt be fair to ask it to pay 
Miss S £20,000. 
The account Miss S held was an account specifically for child savers. Although I accept 
Halifax should have taken the right steps to change the account, I also think Mr R should 
have known the account was no longer suitable when Miss S reached the age of 18 in 
around 2013. Mrs R credited the account with funds well after this date and then withdrew 
those funds over a period of time. 
Overall, I dont think Halifax has acted unreasonably in not refunding the funds removed 
from Miss Ss account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman