DRN-3854920
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mrs and Mr P used to hold with Barclays Bank (UK) 
Plc. It was be due for repayment in 2022, and Barclays turned down Mrs and Mr Ps request 
for a term extension on the part of the mortgage that was interest-only. Mrs and Mr P thinks 
that was unfair because a mortgage advisor had led them to think it could be extended. 
Theyre also unhappy that Barclays dramatically increased the monthly instalment late in the 
mortgage term, and failed to provide a detailed calculation to justify the accuracy of a 
redemption statement.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr P and Barclays. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr P being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If 
I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The mortgage was part repayment, part interest-only; the interest-only component was 
around £18,000 and the mortgage was due to be repaid in January 2022. Mrs and Mr P had 
been planning to repay the interest-only balance from the sale of a second property, but that 
sale was held up due to structural issues.
In December 2020, Mr P spoke with a Barclays mortgage adviser who he says indicated 
they could apply for a term extension and that hed contact them again six months before the 
term end. Mrs and Mr P didnt hear from the advisor, so contacted him in October 2021; he 
told them that without earned income, they wouldnt be accepted for a term extension, and 
suggested they contact the Maturities Team. 
Mr P did so on 29 October 2021, explained the problems with selling the second property, 
and said theyd need around two and a half years to make it saleable. The options they were 
given were to re-mortgage externally or use some of their savings of around £1.1m to clear 
the mortgage. Mrs and Mr P didnt want to do the latter, as they were planning to use the 
savings to fund impending retirement. 
In the meantime, Barclays recalculated the monthly payment, resulting in a significant 
increase. Mrs and Mr P asked why this had happened, and were told it was to ensure the 
repayment element of the mortgage was repaid on time. They werent convinced this was 
right, and when they then received a redemption statement for the mortgage in anticipation 
of the term end, they were mistrustful of its accuracy. 
Mrs and Mr P asked for a comprehensive calculation of how the figure had been arrived at; 
when that wasnt forthcoming, they asked Barclays to confirm it would accept the stated 
figure on a without prejudice basis, to allow them to reclaim any amount shown later to 
have been overpaid. The latter wasnt forthcoming either, so Mrs and Mr P complained to us, 
and held off paying the outstanding interest-only balance. 
Barclays did eventually provide a breakdown of the redemption figure in August 2022; 
Mrs and Mr P werent satisfied with it. They eventually repaid the mortgage by re-financing it 
elsewhere, but say a consequence of in repaying it after the term had ended was that they 
had to take car finance on adverse terms. 
In its final response to the first complaint in January 2022, Barclays offered Mrs and Mr P 
£25 compensation for failing to respond to emails promptly, but rejected the main thrust of 
the complaint about extending the mortgage term. When it provided the redemption 
breakdown in August 2022, Barclays paid them £200 for the delay. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays had treated Mrs and Mr P unfairly regarding the 
mortgage term end. She agreed that there had been shortcomings in Barclays 
communication, but thought the two amounts of compensation were fair. Mrs and Mr P has 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mrs and Mr P borrowed money from Barclays, and under the 
term of their agreement, were due to repay the money when it fell due for repayment in 
January 2022. Im aware that their intended repayment strategy of selling their investment 
property was knocked off course, but the available evidence clearly shows they had other 
means of repaying the interest-only component, for example by drawing from savings. 
I understand Mrs and Mr P preferred to keep the savings intact for retirement. But its 
important to remember that no one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve 
borrowed before, theyre not automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has 
fallen due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term 
extension, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and 
being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public. 
Here, it seems Mrs and Mr P never made a formal application for a term extension, but were 
simply told by their mortgage advisor that they wouldnt be eligible due to the absence of 
earned income once they retired. Mrs and Mr P say the advisor should have told them this in 
December 2020. Theres clearly a conflict in the evidence about what the advisor did or 
didnt say in December 2020, and where thats the case, I need to decide what I consider is 
most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities.Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases, and as the parties bringing the 
case, Mrs and Mr Ps version of events has to be more likely than Barclays, not merely just 
as likely. Having considered very carefully everything that both parties have said and 
provided, Im not persuaded that Mrs and Mr Ps account is any more than just as likely as 
Barclays, and thats not enough for me to find in their favour on what happened in the 
December 2020 discussion.
What I am persuaded of, however, is that if Mrs and Mr P had made a formal application for 
a term extension, it would in all likelihood have been declined on more than just the issue of 
whether they still received earned income (for example because they had deferred their 
retirement plans). I say that because Barclays is on record as saying that with the savings 
they had at their disposal, it would have refused to extend the mortgage and instead 
expected them to pay it off when due. That was Barclays decision to make, not 
Mrs and Mr Ps, and not mine either.
 
Having done that, and having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, I dont find that Barclays treated Mrs and Mr P unfairly over the mortgage term 
end. In essence, all it expected them to do was what they said theyd do when it lent them 
the money. That brings me next to the redemption statement and the request for a detailed 
breakdown of how it had been arrived it. 
I understand that Mrs and Mr P were mistrustful of the accuracy of the redemption 
statement, after they were less than convinced by what Barclays had said about the 
increases in the monthly payment. I can also appreciate their frustration that their repeated 
requests werent acted on, at least not until August 2022. But that doesnt mean 
Mrs and Mr P were powerless to progress matters themselves. Theyve said they wanted to 
submit the figures for independent analysis; but they could have done that as soon as they 
received the redemption statement and doubted its accuracy. They didnt need to wait for 
Barclays to provide a breakdown before doing so. 
Not being sure if things are correct isnt the same as having good reason to believe they are 
incorrect; and Mrs and Mr P havent provided any substantive evidence that would cause me 
to think Barclays accounting was wrong. If Mrs and Mr P had a real and substantive belief 
(based on something other than their frustration at not being able to satisfy themselves that 
the redemption statement was accurate) it was open to them, from as soon as they received 
the redemption statement, to arrange for the mortgage account to be audited by a suitably 
qualified and independent party. 
Bearing in mind their dissatisfaction with what Barclays eventually sent them, Mrs and Mr P 
could still do that now. If they did, the evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis 
for a new complaint, but not as the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point 
because Barclays would need to be presented with the finished audit first, and be given the 
opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Mrs and Mr P would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were 
to their detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, the available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that the redemption 
statement was inaccurate.
Theres something else Mrs and Mr P could have done, to protect their own position. 
Notwithstanding their concerns about the redemption statements accuracy, and the absence 
of a substantive response from Barclays, there was no reason for Mrs and Mr P not to have 
paid the stated figure in full and on time, and simply reserve their right to complain that it 
might be wrong, and to claim a refund if it was later proved theyd overpaid. They didnt need to wait for Barclays to agree to accept repayment on such terms. If Mrs and Mr P had done 
that, it would have been a reasonable mitigation step on their part, to protect their respective 
credit records. 
All of that aside, the fact remains that Barclays did take an excessive amount of time to 
provide the breakdown. That said, given that I dont find the delay to be material to the 
outcome of the broader complaint, I consider the payment of £200 to be adequate 
compensation for the trouble the delay caused. Ive reached much the same conclusion in 
respect of the earlier offer of £25 for the bank having failed to reply to an email promptly, 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs and Mr P. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
have been here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
Mrs and Mr P dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr Ps right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman