DRN-2351369
The complaint
Mr S complains about an entry TSB Bank plc made on a fraud prevention database in 
connection with a mortgage application he made
What happened
Mr S applied to TSB for a mortgage. The mortgage application didnt go ahead  Mr S says 
his business lost a contract due to the coronavirus pandemic and so he didnt feel able to 
proceed with a large financial commitment. But in the meantime TSB had made an entry 
about Mr S on the database.
Mr S complained. TSB didnt agree to remove the marker. But it offered to review it again if 
Mr S provided more information about his employment history.
Instead, Mr S complained to us. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint 
so it came to me for a final decision. As I took a different view, I issued a provisional decision 
setting out my initial thoughts. I said:
Ive also thought about the databases principles for its members, which are available 
on its website. One of the principles is that a member  such as TSB  should only 
make a report where it has relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report 
the matter to the police.
In other words, it must have reasonable suspicion that Mr S has acted dishonestly 
and committed  or attempted  an offence. 
Ive looked at the evidence TSB took into account. And Im not persuaded it reaches 
that standard.
Mr S submitted a payslip, which wasnt in his name or national insurance number. He 
says that in fact it was his partners payslip, which has the same surname and the 
same employer. He says his medication left him confused and he made a mistake.
Ive seen Mr Ss partners security pass. It shows her surname and employee 
number, which match the ones on the payslip. And Ive seen medical evidence of Mr 
Ss condition, the medication he takes and the side effects it has. I think this is a 
plausible explanation.
TSB wasnt able to verify the payslips. In the case of Mr Ss partners payslip, its 
unsurprising it couldnt be verified as Mr Ss. And in the case of Mr Ss, the 
databases guidance to members is that non-verification is not a reason, of itself, for 
making a report  merely an indication of a need to make further enquiries.
TSB says the amount on the payslip doesnt match the amount paid into Mr Ss bank 
account. But in my view the discrepancy  40p  isnt significant.
TSB says the name of the company on the payslip doesnt appear to exist. But Mr S 
has provided a letter from his accountant explaining that his company  which does 
exist  had diversified its services and had begun to use a trading name, the name 
on the payslips. Again, this is a plausible explanation.
TSB also says that Mr S said he was paid through PAYE  but it considers him to be 
self-employed.
But in my view those two things are not incompatible. Many company directors 
choose to pay themselves through PAYE rather than (or as well as) dividends or 
profit share. Directors, including those who are major shareholders, often are also 
employees.
I can understand why in this situation TSB would underwrite the mortgage application 
as self-employed. But that doesnt mean that Mr S misled it in saying that he was 
employed or paid through PAYE.
Ive reviewed the reasons TSB gave for placing the marker, and disagreeing with the 
investigators initial suggestion it could be removed. But in my view they dont meet 
the threshold for making a report. The failure to verify the payslip should have led to 
further enquiries. Those enquiries would have led to an explanation of the company 
trading name and the reasons for submitting the wrong payslip. Im not persuaded, in 
the circumstances, that it was fair to make a report.
To put matters right, I think that TSB should remove the marker. Ive not seen any 
evidence that its presence has caused Mr S any financial loss. But Im satisfied he 
has been caused significant trouble and upset. I think £350 compensation is fair in all 
the circumstances.
Mr S responded to say that another reason he didnt consider the entry should have been 
made was because he withdrew the application  TSB didnt refuse an application or 
withdraw a product from him. He said I was right that he was paid both through PAYE and 
dividends. He said that he could have explained everything if TSB had given him the chance, 
or investigated thoroughly, before making the entry on the database. And he said the marker 
was now preventing his company applying for a coronavirus bounce back loan.
TSB said it asked Mr S for a letter from HMRC confirming his income when he first 
complained. If he had provided it then, it could have cleared up the confusion, avoiding the 
need for a complaint to us. It said it did try to resolve matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again what I said in my provisional decision, but I havent changed my mind. 
I remain of the view that TSB should have carried out further enquiries and hadnt met the 
threshold for making a report. Ive noted what it said in response to my provisional decision. 
But to my mind the time for making further enquiries and for asking Mr S for evidence was 
before the marker was added, not when he complained about it.
Putting things right
I remain of the view that TSB didnt have enough evidence to justify placing the marker, and 
that £350 compensation is fair in all the circumstances. The marker should also be removed.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank plc to:
Remove any entries it made about this application on external databases; and
Pay Mr S £350 compensation.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman