DRN-2557877
The complaint
Mr P says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty hasnt administered his account properly. He 
says it changed the repayment date of his loan without his knowledge or permission. This 
caused repayment problems and may have affected his credit file. 
And when Mr P raised this with Drafty he says he didnt receive a proper response and he 
was unable to speak to anyone at the business. He says this has caused him some trouble 
and upset. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Mr P started in September 2018. This 
was an arrangement where Mr P could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. He would need 
to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued interest 
or charges (or £10 if this was lower). 
Mr P used the account regularly and I understand he made repayments on time. He had 
made these repayments largely on 15th of each month which coincided with his pay date. As 
he says the loan agreement does say that the repayment must be made by the date shown 
on the statement. Which would be the same as his pay date unless otherwise agreed. 
In the April 2020 monthly statement Drafty said that it would take the repayment on the 
9 April 2020. This wold be before Mr P was paid so he would be unlikely to easily pay this at 
the time. It also tried to take the payment a few days earlier than his pay date in May 2020. 
Mr P tried to contact Drafty about this when the payments were due. But he was unable to 
get a reasonable response. Ive seen a copy of the correspondence and its fair to say that 
much of the responses from Drafty were standard acknowledgements or similar. Drafty 
didnt really address the issues Mr P raised. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He agreed that Drafty shouldnt have tried to change 
the repayment date without talking to Mr P first. And so it should remove any adverse credit 
information from Mr Ps credit file, and repay interest that has accrued, due to this issue. It 
should not send the account to recoveries. And it should pay Mr P £200 for the trouble and 
upset it caused him. Drafty agreed with the adjudicators suggested compensation. 
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read everything he has said, but a 
summary of his ongoing complaint points, and why he disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion, are below. He says that:
Drafty breached the terms of the agreement by trying to take payment earlier than 
the usual payment date. It doesnt seem likely that this was a technical glitch
he had numerous problems contacting Drafty by telephone and receiving responses 
to emails. It continued to send him pro forma responses and ticket numbers 
he had a perfect repayment record before the problems caused by Drafty. He 
wouldnt have paid late if Drafty had not changed the repayment dates
he may have incurred further interest due to the delay in payments caused by Drafty 
he would like a significant trouble and upset repayment for all the emotional distress 
Draftys errors have caused him
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I will say that I have to consider each complaint impartially. I dont act on behalf of 
either the consumer or the business. Im not able to act on Mr Ps behalf.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints out this kind of credit  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Applying this to the 
circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
I think its reasonable to say that its been established that Drafty made the errors Mr P says 
it did. It shouldnt have changed the loan repayment date and it was clear that Mr P would 
find it difficult to make the repayment just before his pay day. Drafty should have been aware 
of this. And it should have responded when Mr P contacted it in a more reasonable and 
timely manner. 
But Drafty has now offered to put this right and remove any costs, and adverse repayment 
information, Mr P has incurred because of the timing of the repayments. It will remove the 
any additional interest charged over this period charged due to the error.  It will also remove 
any adverse information about this from his credit file. As far as I can see his account 
balance is now correct and Drafty has said it will arrange a repayment date to suit him going 
forward. 
I think this is a fair way to resolve these aspects of his complaint and I wont consider these 
issues in more detail. 
I will consider the remaining issue Mr P has raised. This is about the compensation Drafty 
has agreed to pay in respect of the trouble and upset all this caused him.   
I can see this was very frustrating for Mr P. He had to contact Drafty more than he shouldve 
in order to try and get the pay date changed and his account put right. He was unable to 
properly communicate with Drafty through no fault of his own. Drafty didnt take action to sort 
this out within a reasonable time frame. It didnt substantially agree to put this right until Mr P 
brought his complaint here.  
That said, it is reasonable to say that sometimes things do go wrong. And whilst Drafty 
should have done better here, it is fair to say that some inconvenience can be expected 
when problems happen. Added to this Mr P has now not suffered any financial loss because 
of the actions of Drafty. 
So having thought about all of the circumstances surrounding this issue I think its reasonable 
that the compensation I should award here is modest. I think the £200 that the adjudicator 
recommended is fair. 
I appreciate this might not be the answer Mr P wants and I can see he feels strongly about 
this issue. I hope he finds my explanation helpful at least. Putting things right
If Mr P accepts this decision Drafty makes sure the following is done (if it has not already 
done so):
set a payment date suitable to both parties
calculate what Mr P owes removing any interest or charges applied added as a result 
of late or missed payments or removing his account to recoveries
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this 
matter
recall his account from recoveries.
pay Mr P £200
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman