DRN-1558303
The complaint
Ms and Mr C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined their pet 
insurance claim. My references to RSA include its agents.
What happened
In 2017 Ms and Mr C took out pet insurance for their dog through a high street provider, the 
insurer is RSA. They had previous pet insurance elsewhere.
In summer 2019 Ms and Mr C took their dog to the vet. The vet notes say she was 
struggling to get up steps & reluctant to jump up. Their usual vet recommended x-rays be 
taken. The x-ray results were given to Ms and Mr C by a different vet at the same practice 
who said their dog had cruciate ligament problems. The vet discussed treatment options with 
an orthopaedic specialist vet who had seen the x-rays. Ms and Mr C chose for their dog to 
have surgery. They claimed for the treatment costs for their usual vet practice and specialist 
vet which total about £5,800.
RSA declined the claim. It looked at the dogs clinical history and said the cruciate disease 
had started before Ms and Mr C took out the policy. The policy didnt cover pre-existing 
conditions.
Ms and Mr C complained to us. They said although their dog had been to the vet in the past 
with stiffness in her hindquarters they hadnt been told she had anything seriously wrong 
with her and their vet practice hadnt mentioned their dog had cruciate disease until 2019. 
They said they thought she had a bit of arthritis and would have had the problem 
investigated sooner, and not changed the pet insurance, if theyd known there was a serious 
problem. They want RSA to pay the claim.
Our investigator said RSA had fairly declined the claim.
Ms and Mr C disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said their usual vet had 
ruled out cruciate disease following x-rays of their dog in December 2014 and it was 
speculation from the different vet at the practice that there was a link between their dogs 
lameness in 2014 and the cruciate ligament problem in 2019. They also said the specialist 
vet told them the problem might not have been identified at all and could have been from 
birth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms and Mr C, I understand they have tried to do what they thought 
was best for their dog. But I have to decide whether RSA fairly and reasonably declined the  
claim, and I think it did. I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear theres no cover for:
Changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour before being 
added to this policy, or any illness or injury that develop from these changes'.
Ms and Mr C say they didnt know their dog had cruciate disease before they took out the 
policy and I dont think they were given a clear diagnosis until 2019, after the policy was 
taken out. 
But there doesnt have to be a diagnosis for a condition to be considered as pre-existing. 
Whats required is for the pet to be showing signs of the illness or injury before the policy 
started. Also I generally think a consumer needs to be reasonably aware something was 
wrong with their pet when they took out the policy, although not the exact diagnosis, for an 
insurer to fairly decline the claim on a pre-existing condition exclusion.
The vet notes show that in December 2014 Ms and Mr Cs dog was x-rayed for her 
lameness/stiffness. The vet notes say Sedate to palpate right stifle. stable, no apparent 
cranial drawer. x-ray lateral right hind & VD pelvis / AP stifles - nothing abnormal detected. 
Ms and Mr C made an insurance claim for treatment for lameness, which would have been 
against  the previous insurer. The vet prescribed pain relief medication which it looks as if 
the dog took on and off and the dog was seen by the vets for lameness again before the 
policy was taken out.
The dog had lameness after the policy was taken out and in August 2019 the vet 
recommended x-rays. The different vet at the practice did the referral letter to the 
orthoperiodic specialist. The referral letter says Ms and Mr Cs dog:
has been diagnosed with bilateral cranial cruciate rupture likely from 2014 to which 
conservative management has been unsuccessful. On recent x-rays severe 
degenerative joint disease was seen in both stifles and a narrowing of Tl2/13 was 
also noticed on spinal x-rays. (Dogs name) owners report that she seems to be 
struggling more with her hind limbs in the past few months and is reluctant to jump 
and go upstairs. They report that sometimes her legs slip out from underneath her 
and she is panting more on walks. (Dogs name) has previously been on (specified 
medication) to no effect and is currently trialling a (specified medication) to try and 
improve her clinical signs. Her owners are keen to see if referral could offer solutions 
to (dogs name) pain other than conservative management.
Ms and Mr C say the vet made a speculative link between the 2019 cruciate disease and the 
2014 lameness. But that vet isnt the only vet who thinks theres a link. When the specialist 
vet saw the clinical evidence he also thought there was a link. He said:
I received the full clinical history and it looks like the patient developed bilateral 
cranial cruciate ligament rupture back in December 2014. The recent radiographs 
show that both stifles now have severe DJD (degenerative joint disease). It is unlikely 
that surgery at this late stage would improve the pelvic limb function as the current 
clinical signs are likely due to the pre-existing/secondary severe DJD of both stifles.
The vet records also say Mr C was disappointed that (the dogs) CCL (cranial cruciate 
ligament rupture) was not picked up in 2014 but I explained that conservative management 
would have been the first line to manage (the dog) and it was unfortunate that her DJD had 
progressed. 
So the specialist vets evidence clearly links the dogs 2019 condition and the 
lameness/stiffness she had in 2014. His opinion that surgery at this late stage was unlikely 
to make any improvement due to the severity also suggests the condition existed for some 
time.Ive seen the email the clinical director at Ms and Mr Cs vet practice sent to RSA. It says:
(the dog) was examined under sedation and had her stifle radiographed back in 
December 2014, there was at this time no instability or changes on the radiographs 
consistent with cruciate ligament problems. Since then she has never been seen for 
any problems relating to this leg until recently. I would have expected her to have had 
several episodes of lameness in the last 5 years had her cruciate problems begun 
back then.
The clinical directors opinion is that a link between the 2019 condition and the 2014 
lameness is unlikely.
In response RSA say that while the stifle was stable in 2014 that only shows the ligament 
was not ruptured, it still could have been weakened and the specialist vets opinion is clear 
the condition started in 2014 based on the chronic changes of the stifle. 
There is conflicting vet evidence in this case. But I think its reasonable for RSA to give more 
weight to the specialist vets opinion who saw the dogs clinical history and 2019 x-rays and 
is an orthopaedic specialist. So I think its reasonable for RSA to say its more likely than not 
that the condition Ms and Mr C claimed for in 2019 was related to their dogs lameness in 
2014, before the policy was taken out. And Ms and Mr C knew about their dogs lameness, 
for which shed taken medication, before they took out the policy. 
Overall, RSA fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman