DRN-3098977
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund £5,000 he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
What Mr K says
Mr K says that in January 2018 he was cold called and offered an investment opportunity in 
mini bonds. The minimum investment was £5,000. As interest rates were low Mr K was 
interested. He agreed to the minimum investment amount and, after checking the company 
website and Companies House website, made the transfer on 22 February 2018 and 
received a bond certificate. Mr K initially received interest payments but became worried 
when they stopped. He tried to contact the company but was unable to do so and realised he 
was the victim of a scam.
Mr K contacted Santander about the scam on 31 July 2020.   
What Santander say
Santander hasnt provided Mr K with a refund. It says Mr K authorised the payment and it 
has been unable to recover any funds. But Santander recognised the service it provided was 
not as good as it should have been and credited Mr Ks account with £50. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She said Mr K authorised the 
transactions and that it was reasonable that Santander didnt identify that Mr K may 
potentially be the victim of a scam. This was because the payment wasnt unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to Santander as Mr K had made a higher transaction shortly 
before and his account had a healthy balance after the transaction was made. Finally, the 
investigator thought Santander had taken reasonable steps to recover Mr Ks lost funds.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
- There were a large number of victims of the same scam who have been refunded by 
their banks and some of them have brought complaints to this service. The 
investigator commented that Mr K had a healthy balance after the scam payment 
was made, but so did others who have received a refund. 
- The individual who approved the investment was FCA registered. And Mr K checked 
the websites of all the companies involved and also looked them up on the 
Companies House website. 
- The FCA red-flagged custodial accounts in February 2017. The bank that received 
his funds was clearly a custodial account. 
- Some of the payments the investigator discussed werent for investments but to 
family members. 
- Santander should have warned him he was investing with a company that wasnt 
FCA registered and of the dangers of this. He was unaware at the time that 
investments could be unregulated. 
- Mr K referred to BSI PAS 17271:2017 and noted it gives examples of suspicious 
activity such as payments to new payees, transfers to other accounts and 
withdrawals of large amounts. He said hed done all of these things before the scam 
payment. Mr K went on to say Santander should have intervened and asked him 
questions about the payment and that had it done so the scam would have been 
uncovered and the loss prevented. 
- He only notified Santander of the scam in 2020 as before this he was unaware 
Santander may be responsible.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including the BSI code referred to by Mr K) and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr K when he made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I 
have considered the position carefully.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably when it made the payment?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment request Mr K made was unusual or uncharacteristic. Having 
considered Mr Ks account activity in the months before the scam I agree with the 
investigator the scam payment wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic and so I wouldnt expect Santander to flag it or ask Mr K any questions about it. I say this because in the months 
before the scam Mr K made the following faster payments:
Date Amount Recipient
29/01/18 £5,000 Individual
16/11/17 £10,000 Company
30/09/17 £5,000 Individual
04/09/17 £6,000 Company
21/07/17 £3,000 Individual
20/06/17 £10,000 Company
So Mr K made a number of payments for the same amount as the scam payment, as well as 
much larger amounts, in the months before the scam. He also set up new payees and made 
faster payments, so these activities also werent unusual for him. Overall, there was nothing 
about the scam payment that indicated to Santander that Mr K may be at risk of financial 
harm. In these circumstances I wouldnt expect Santander to ask Mr K any questions about 
it. Only if the scam payment was unusual or uncharacteristic would I expect Santander to 
ask Mr K questions about it. So theres no need for me to consider what might have 
happened if Santander had discussed the payment with Mr K.
Mr K has also said that some of the other payments he made prior to the scam were to 
family members, which is correct. But he also made genuine payments to companies. There 
was a clear pattern of higher value payments meaning the scam payment didnt stand out as 
being suspicious. A balance needs to be struck here between preventing fraud and allowing 
customers to use their accounts without every payment being stopped - which would be 
unmanageable and unreasonable.
In his response to the investigators view Mr K also raised some points about the company 
he was transferring funds to. At the time the payment was made it was correctly processed if 
it went to the sort-code and account number provided by the payee (in this case Mr K). 
There was no regulatory requirement to check the account name. So Im not persuaded 
Santander should have done more to check the beneficiary as Mr K suggests. And as Ive 
concluded Santander acted reasonably in not asking Mr K any questions about the payment 
he made, it follows that Santander wouldnt have known Mr K was investing in an 
unregulated company. 
Mr K has also told this service that other victims of the same scam have received refunds 
from their banks. I can only comment on the individual circumstances of Mr Ks case. But 
whether a bank should have identified a payment as unusual and suspicious, and so asked 
a customer questions about it, will be individual to that customer and will depend on that 
customers previous account and spending history. And even if the payment was unusual 
and a conversation took place, the outcome will be different for different customers. So the 
fact that other customers have received a refund from their bank doesnt impact my 
consideration of Mr Ks complaint. 
Recovery of funds
Mr K reported the scam to Santander on 31 July 2020. Santander contacted the bank that 
received Mr Ks funds that same day but was told in August 2020 that no funds remain. I 
understand why Mr K didnt report the scam sooner, but dont find it surprising that no funds remained after such a period of time. Scammers usually remove funds immediately to avoid 
the possibility of them being recovered. In the circumstances, I consider Santander acted 
reasonably in attempting to recover Mr Ks funds.
Overall
Im sorry Mr K has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman