DRN-3038055
The complaint
Mr G complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid his travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr G held a platinum single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV, covering a
holiday which was due to start on 21 March 2020. The policy was purchased in February
2020.
Unfortunately, Mr Gs airline cancelled his flight on 15 March 2020. And, on the same day,
the ski resorts in the country Mr G was intending to visit were closed due to the
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential international travel. This
advice remained in place on Mr Gs intended departure date.
As Mr G couldnt travel, he made a claim for his unused, non-refundable accommodation
costs under his policy with URV. URV said the circumstances which Mr G found himself in
werent covered under the terms and conditions of his insurance policy.
Unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be fair and
reasonable for URV to pay Mr Gs claim. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so
the complaint was passed to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr Gs complaint in August 2021. In it, I said:
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken
these rules and guidance into account when considering Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G says he was unable to go on his trip because of the events of 15 March 2020 (i.e. the
airline cancelling his flight and ski resorts at his intended destination closing)  so he says he
didnt cancel the trip himself and the trip wasnt cancelled due to changes in FCDO advice.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, on page 17 entitled Your pre-travel policy  if you
are unable to go on your trip (Policy A Section 1) set out the circumstances under which
URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which cannot be recovered from any other source. These
are if the policyholder is unable to travel because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
I understand Mr G was unable to travel due to circumstances beyond his control. But his trip
wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. Flights being cancelled by an airline before a
policyholder arrives at the airport isnt a valid reason for a cancellation claim to be paid under
this policy  and neither is the closure of facilities at a policyholders intended destination.
And, even if Mr G had waited until FCDO advice changed to cancel his trip, this isnt a listed,
insured event for which cover is provided under the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy
either.
There is no section of Mr Gs policy which provides cover for the circumstances he found
himself in. This means I dont think Mr Gs claim is covered under the terms and conditions
of his policy with URV.
Our investigator thought URV should pay Mr Gs claim outside of a strict interpretation of the
policy terms and conditions. This was because she thought it wouldnt be fair or reasonable
for Mr G to be left in a position where he had no cover for cancelling his trip due to a change
in FCDO advice but to also have no cover if hed gone ahead and travelled in the event that
it was possible for him to do so.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by URV, as
well as the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. Ive also had regard to the industry rules
and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as the relevant law (including the unfair
terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page
1, says;
This is a summary of our insurance policy. You will find all the terms and conditions,
along with other important information, online and in the policy documents.
Page 2 of the IPID says;
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
Cancellation claims due to the FCDO advising against all travel or all but essential travel
arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. I think a customer might
reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of cover for cancellation claims relating
to a change in FCDO advice to be prominent in the IPID.
However, Ive also gone on to consider the terms and conditions - which are the contract
between Mr G and URV.Page 5 of the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, under the heading Summary of Cover
says that cover is only provided under Policy A Section 1 provided;
cancellation is not because of the failure of your travel agent, tour operator or due to
the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Page 16, under the heading Conditions and exclusions applying to your policies says;
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following
circumstances: 
You travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time
of your departure.
Page 17 of the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, which Ive already referred to above as
outlining the cover available under Policy A Section 1 says;
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
applicable at the time of your departure.
So, the cancellation section of Mr Gs policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims made
because of FCDO advice.
Although Mr G may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if hed
travelled on 21 March 2020 and also having no cover if he cancelled, I think these
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of his policy. It
was up to Mr G to ensure he had the level of cover he required to meet his needs and if he
wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, its likely he couldve found
another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation he found himself in.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, and Im sorry to hear he has been through a difficult time, but I
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept his
claim.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Neither URV nor Mr G replied to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments nor provided any additional evidence, I see 
no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman