DRN-1234843
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (TUL) and its authorised repairer dealt 
poorly with repairs to her car after it was damaged in a road accident and she claimed under 
her motor insurance policy with TUL. She is represented in bringing this complaint by her 
husband, Mr M. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs Ms car was involved in a road accident, which resulted in damage to 
the passengers side, rear door and bumper. Mrs M notified TUL, and claimed under her 
TUL policy. TUL arranged for the car to be booked into one of its approved repairers (AR) for 
the necessary work to be carried out.
The car was collected a few days after the accident. As part of her policy, Mrs M had paid to 
have a larger courtesy car if needed, because of her family circumstances. This was 
supplied. Under the policy terms Mrs M was entitled to this courtesy car for up to 28 days.
Over the next three months, AR carried out repairs, which Mrs M said were unsatisfactory, 
so that the car was returned to AR five times altogether. The reasons for the returns included 
failure to carry out all the work required, poor paint spraying, and poor fit of body parts.
The 28 day period for the supply of their courtesy car expired. So TUL arranged for AR to 
supply another courtesy car. The airbag warning light on this was constantly on, which 
concerned Mr and Mrs M. 
Mrs M accepted the car back in April 2019. But she had lost faith in the quality of the repairs 
and so put the car up for sale, and complained to TUL about its poor service. TUL 
acknowledged that she had suffered stress and inconvenience as a result of the several 
attempts by AR to repair the car to an acceptable standard. It paid her compensation for this 
of £250. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with this and complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs M 
could reasonably expect that the repairs TUL authorised to be carried out by AR would be 
suitably completed after the first visit. Instead, it took a number of visits for this to be done, 
which added at least three months to the length of the claim.
Mr and Mrs M had experienced some issues with the courtesy cars supplied. But he thought 
TUL had tried to accommodate the familys needs and keep them mobile. He said the 
repairs undertaken were mostly cosmetic in nature. So the car would be safe to drive, which 
an independent inspection had confirmed. 
Mrs M said she had lost faith on the quality of the repairs and had decided to sell the car. 
While the investigator sympathised with Mrs Ms position on this, ultimately this was her 
decision, and he couldnt ask TUL to compensate her for this, whatever price she accepted. He thought that for the delay of three months, and having to deal with TUL about the issues 
during that time, compensation of £250 was not unreasonable, given that Mr and Mrs M 
were kept mobile during that time. He said it was in line with awards made by this service in 
similar circumstances. 
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that:
Mrs M paid extra under the policy to be entitled to an upgraded courtesy car;
having had this for 28 days, with her own car still not properly repaired, she was 
pressured to return this courtesy car. TUL instructed AR to provide a courtesy car. 
But initially it offered a smaller car which wasnt satisfactory. AR provided a larger 
car, but this came with a warning light on in respect of the airbag;
although TUL had tried to intervene with AR, ultimately it was responsible for ARs 
poor service; and
the whole episode had caused the family stress and worry.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TUL has accepted responsibility for the poor service provided by AR. The three months it 
took for the repairs to be completed caused Mrs M stress and inconvenience. At the end of 
the process TUL arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent motor engineer 
who confirmed the work had now been completed to an acceptable standard.
I can understand why Mrs M might have lost confidence in the car and wish to sell it. 
However that is her decision, and I cant reasonably require TUL to compensate her for any 
perceived loss that might result from selling it.
The upgraded courtesy car Mrs M paid for was for a period of 28 days. After that, TUL 
arranged for AR to supply a replacement of a size to suit the family. In relation to the airbag 
warning light, AR offered to reset this but according to TULs file notes Mr M declined this 
offer.
Its right that Mrs M should be compensated for the time and trouble it took for the repairs to 
be completed, and the stress and inconvenience this caused her. TUL has paid her 
compensation of £250. Having taken everything into account, I dont think this is 
unreasonable in the circumstances, and dont require TUL to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Tesco 
Underwriting Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman