DRN-3613219
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim made on his travel insurance 
policy.
All reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr O booked a trip abroad between February and April 2021. He says, whilst abroad, he 
was involved in a car accident. He says he suffered injuries to his back, neck and jaw. He 
also says that a laptop, mobile phone and cash (in both British pounds and local currency) 
were stolen from him. 
Mr O made a claim on his travel insurance, underwritten by Aviva, for a number of things 
including his medical and dentistry costs, hotel accommodation, car rental costs, the cost of 
a family member travelling from the UK to care for him after the car accident and the cost of 
his flight back to the UK after he extended his trip. 
Aviva carried out investigations into the car accident abroad and what happened 
subsequently. This included attending the police station which provided the police report to 
ask further questions about what happened, the medical facilities where Mr O was treated 
and the hotel he said he was staying at. It also contacted the insurance company of the 
vehicle which collided with Mr O whilst abroad and also the company who owned that 
vehicle, to ascertain whether the third party insurance had covered the damage caused to 
the car Mr O was driving. Aviva also interviewed Mr O. 
As a result of its investigations, Aviva declined Mr Os claim. It concluded that Mr O had 
exaggerated his claim. Unhappy, Mr O complained to our service.
Based on the evidence obtained as part of Avivas investigation, our investigator didnt think 
it had unfairly declined Mr Os claim. Mr O didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to 
me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. 
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims made on the travel insurance policy fairly and 
promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy includes the following term (at page 36 of the policy terms and conditions under 
the heading claims fraud):
If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated, we will not pay any benefit 
under this policy and we may cancel your policy immediately and backdate the 
cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action against 
you to include recovery of any sums paid to you in respect of the fraudulent claim.
Ill refer to this as the claims fraud term.
Relying on the claims fraud term, Aviva declined all aspects of Mr Os claim in full. Because 
of the amount of inconsistent information it had been provided in support of Mr Os claim, 
Aviva concluded that hed attempted to exaggerate any settlement that may have been due 
to him. 
Based on the totality of evidence gathered as part of the investigation, Im satisfied that this 
was a fair and reasonable outcome for Aviva to reach. Ill explain why. 
- Mr O said he was being asked to pay for the repairs to the car he was driving at the 
time of the accident. However, Avivas investigation revealed that the insurance 
company whod insured the vehicle which collied with Mr O had settled the costs of 
repairs. Documentary evidence was obtained to support this. 
- Mr O has provided documents from the hotel chasing him for payment of the 
outstanding costs in relation to his stay. Hes also provided handwritten receipts of 
cash payments made to them at the start of his stay. However, the hotel wasnt able 
to provide any records of Mr Os stay when Avivas agent visited the hotel, despite 
requesting this. Although Mr O was said to have stayed there for many weeks, no 
staff member knew of him and when the manager of the hotel was spoken to about 
this, its reflected that they made no comment. 
- The medical report, produced within days of the accident, didnt make any reference 
to Mr O having any facial injuries  which wasnt consistent with what Mr O said 
about having damaged a number of teeth, requiring emergency dentist treatment to 
remove several teeth. 
- As part of the investigation, Avivas agent visited the medical center Mr O attended 
and was told that the teeth Mr O says were extracted whilst abroad  and for which 
he was being chased payment for  werent the teeth theyd recalled Mr O saying he 
had an issue with. Further, the dentist said that photos Mr O had produced of having 
certain teeth removed didnt correspond with the treatment hed received and was 
initially charged for. There were also inconsistences with the amounts charged for 
dental treatment, and how much Mr O had paid for it.
- There were inconsistencies between what was contained in the Police report and 
what was reported by the Policeman who Avivas agent spoke to - whod recalled the 
incident. 
Later during his trip, Mr O says that he became unwell and was diagnosed with a particular 
disease. As a result, he had to extend his trip and he incurred further costs  including 
medical costs and his return flight home. Due to the scale of Avivas concerns about aspects 
of the claim being exaggerated, it decided not to pay any associated costs relating to Mr O 
being diagnosed with a particular disease. In the circumstances of this case, and because 
the claims fraud term says that if a claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated, no benefit 
will be paid under the policy, I think Avivas decision is fair and reasonable. 
For this reason, I also think Aviva has fairly declined to cover the costs of a family member 
travelling to the country where Mr O was staying to care for him after he was discharged 
from hospital towards the end of March 2021, after the car accident. Mr O has told us that 
Aviva advised him to approach a family member to travel to look after him. However, having 
considered the Avivas contact notes, I dont think thats right. Im satisfied that Mr O was told 
that he would have to fund the costs himself while his claim was being considered. And given the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office advice at the time, Aviva said it 
wasnt wise for Mr Os family member to travel. 
Mr O has also said that he feels discriminated against by Aviva because of his race. Our 
service doesnt have the power to make findings about whether discrimination has occurred 
or whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. Only a Court can do that. However, 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into the account (amongst 
other things) relevant law - and in this case, that does include the Equality Act 2010. Having 
considered everything, I dont think Mr O has been singled out because of his race. Given 
Avivas investigations and the amount of inconsistent information, Im satisfied that its acted 
fairly and reasonably by not covering the costs claimed by Mr O. 
Ive also taken into account all the information Mr O has provided  including documents 
which support he is still being chased for outstanding amounts  including dentist and hotel 
costs. That may be the case. However, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by maintaining its position to decline the claim, relying on the claims fraud term. Particularly 
in light of Avivas investigations, and what its agent was told by the dentist and hotel at the 
time. Although, Mr O may have had teeth removed  as indicated in photos provided to 
Aviva and our service  and he is now being chased for payment, it doesnt automatically 
follow that those particular teeth were removed as a direct result of the car accident. And in 
light of the totally of the other evidence obtained, I think Aviva has fairly concluded that they 
most likely werent. 
Also having considered the steps taken by Aviva after being notified of the car accident, I 
think it was taking proactive steps to seek to validate Mr Os claim  including the 
investigations being carried out into the circumstances of the car accident and the costs he 
wanted Aviva to cover. So, overall Im satisfied that it promptly investigated Mr Os claim 
before taking the initial decision to decline it around a month after the car accident in light of 
its preliminary investigations. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman