DRN-3841656
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mr T is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in October 2016. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from Shawbrook, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mr T says the installer misled him into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator agreed that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr T and upheld the complaint. Shawbrook did not agree, and 
so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the quote for the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the 
panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
On the front page of a document titled Your Full Quotation is the total first year benefit 
figure of £443.13. Two lines below that is the cash price of the panels, £8,549.
So for the panels to pay for themselves during the ten year term of the loan, the panels 
would have had to make an average of £854.90 a year  but the first year benefit figure only 
comes to about half of that. The loan term does not appear on this page, but I am still 
satisfied that Mr T certainly knew that he was taking out a ten year loan.
The interest does not appear on this document, and it was for that reason that our 
adjudicator upheld this complaint  because the quote did not clearly set out the true cost. 
However, I dont think that is the key issue here. The fact remains that this document did 
clearly set out that the panels would not make enough money to pay for themselves. If they 
would not make enough to pay for their cash price, then they certainly could not make 
enough money to pay for the cash price plus the loan interest.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr T about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Responses to my provisional findings
The parties had nothing to add to my provisional findings, so there is no reason for me to 
depart from them and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman