DRN-4396667
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a 
scam. 
What happened
Mrs B is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mrs B throughout this decision. 
Mrs B says that she moved to the UK and was looking for work, so she contacted 
recruitment agencies. In March 2023 Mrs B received a call from someone offering her the 
opportunity to work from home in a role that involved leaving reviews to earn commission. To 
initiate the first task, Mrs B was required to make a payment of £90 to a cryptocurrency 
exchange. Mrs B was added to a group chat involving others doing the same role that 
seemed to be earning good money. 
Mrs B was encouraged to make further payments for exclusive tasks to unlock higher rates 
of commission. Later in March Mrs B wanted to withdraw all her funds but was advised that 
to do so she would need to make a payment for tax. After making the payment Mrs B was 
asked to make further payments. When Mrs B refused to pay anything more, she was 
blocked from the site. She realised she was the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo on 27 
April 2023.
I have set out in the table below the payments Mrs B made from her Monzo account to two 
cryptocurrency exchanges. All payments were made using Mrs Bs debit card.
Date Amount Recipient
26/03/23 £90 1
27/03/23 £750 1
27/03/23 £320 1
27/03/23 £130 1
28/03/23 £1,800 2
Total £3,090
Monzo said it couldnt refund Mrs B because the scam payments werent made from her 
Monzo account. Instead, the fraudulent payments were made from Mrs Bs own 
cryptocurrency wallets. Monzo also said it followed Mrs Bs instructions in making the 
payments and that no chargeback rights apply. In any event, Mrs B didnt take enough steps 
to check the job opportunity was genuine.  
Mrs B was unhappy with Monzos response so brought a complaint to this service. She said 
Monzo should have intervened and provided relevant warnings when she made unusual 
payments.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
doesnt apply in this case. He went on to say that the payments werent so unusual or out of 
character that Monzo ought to have intervened when they were made. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so her 
complaint has been passed to me. In summary, she said:
- She transferred funds to cryptocurrency exchanges and such payments are known to 
carry high risks of fraud. Given this, some banks have decided to stop card payments 
to cryptocurrency merchants which would have prevented Mrs Bs loss.
- Mrs B was allowed to spend over £3,000 over three days to a high risk beneficiary.
- Monzo should have applied stricter fraud prevention rules and given appropriate 
warnings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code isnt relevant in this case for a number of reasons including the fact it 
doesnt apply to card payments. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Santander is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Mrs B made and 
authorised these payments, although I accept that when she did so she didnt think her funds 
were at risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs B when she authorised payments from her account or whether it could and should have 
done more before processing them. 
Ive looked at Mrs Bs statements for the six-month period before the scam and can see that 
the transactions she made were all for less than £100 and her balance was never much 
more than this amount. The first payment of £90 was in line with Mrs Bs usual account 
activity.  I accept that the payment of £750 was above her usual spending level. But I still 
dont consider that Monzo needed to intervene. The value of the transaction was still 
modest, and an unusual pattern of spending hadnt emerged. Theres a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations to act in their customers best 
interests, they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. To do so would involve 
significant disruption to legitimate payment journeys. 
The final payment of £1,800 was to a different payee. Again, whilst the amount is greater 
than any previous payment on the account, I dont consider Monzo ought reasonably to have 
intervened when it was made. The amount was still relatively low, and the pattern of 
payments wasnt consistent with a typical cryptocurrency investment scam. 
Many payments to cryptocurrency exchanges are legitimate so I dont consider Monzo acted 
unreasonably in following Mrs Bs payment instructions based on the recipient alone. The 
fact that some other banks have chosen not to allow card payments for cryptocurrency 
doesnt mean that Monzo has a duty to question a customer every time they authorise a 
transaction to a cryptocurrency exchange. Monzo needs to consider a range of factors to 
determine if intervention is required.
I agree with the investigator that a chargeback wouldnt be successful in this case. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I cant reasonably ask Monzo to refund her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman