DRN-2370145
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with refunds to 
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card account with Barclays. In 2019, he made three payments on the 
credit card to a merchant which Ill call M. Mr H says he wasnt happy with the service being 
provided by M and entered into a lengthy exchange with M to try and get his money back, 
with no success. He says he has since discovered that M is a scam company.
Mr H says he wrote to Barclays in June 2020, asking them to refund the payments hed 
made to M. He says he made this request on the basis that Barclays had failed to warn him 
or exercise due diligence in relation to the payments he made to M. He says he received no 
response and that he chased this up several times over the course of a month. Barclays say 
they didnt receive Mr Hs letter.
Mr H made contact with Barclays in July. They treated his concerns (about a failure to warn 
him about the payments to M) as a complaint. Barclays wrote to Mr H on 4 August rejecting 
that complaint. Their letter explained that they could try to recover the funds from M through 
a chargeback claim. They said they would need some information from Mr H in order to do 
that. Mr H says that he received a phone call from Barclays on the same date asking for this 
information. Mr H says that Barclays told him on the phone that they would have to wait 15 
days for M to respond before they could raise a chargeback. But Mr H says that the letter of 
the same date confirms that Barclays had already decided that no further action would be 
taken. So, he says that Barclays lied to him about the 15-day waiting period.
Barclays say they received the information they needed from Mr H on 5 August and diarised 
to raise the chargeback automatically on 21 August. During that 15-day window, M refunded 
the payments to Mr Hs credit card. 
Mr H says that he had asked M to refund the payments to a different bank account. His 
credit card account was no longer in use by that time, because he had entered into an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and was paying off the credit card through that 
arrangement. But M made the refund to Mr Hs credit card account.
Barclays system didnt identify these credits as refunds by M and so, on 21 August, a 
chargeback was raised even though it was no longer necessary. As part of the chargeback 
process, Barclays credited Mr Hs account with the disputed amounts. This meant that Mr H 
was refunded twice (once by M and once by Barclays).
Mr H wasnt happy that M had sent the refund to his credit card account instead of his other 
account. He contacted Barclays and asked them to transfer the refund to his current 
account. At that point, Barclays realised that the payments had been refunded twice. They 
wrote to Mr H to explain that they hadnt been aware of the refunds from M when they had 
applied their own credits to his account.
 
Barclays reversed the credits they had made, so that Mr H was put in the position where 
each of his payments had been refunded just once, by M. Barclays said that they couldnt 
transfer Ms refunds to Mr Hs current account, because Mr H hadnt paid off those 
transactions on his credit card account  they were still outstanding. After the refunds from M 
had been applied to Mr Hs account, the outstanding balance was around £400.
As compensation for the trouble and upset caused by their mistake of the double credit and 
giving Mr H conflicting information about the refunds, Barclays credited Mr Hs account with 
£50. This left an outstanding balance of nearly £350, which Barclays cleared as a gesture of 
goodwill, leaving Mr H with a zero balance. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the way Barclays had dealt with the issue, so he asked this service 
to look into it. Our investigator thought that Barclays had dealt with the situation fairly and 
didnt ask them to do any more. But Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
He says he had great difficulty in getting information from Barclays about the refunds and 
had to make around 20 calls to them. He says the refund from M was made to the credit 
card account in error and wasnt of his choosing because he had asked M to send it to a 
different account. He says that he had wanted to use the money to repay his other creditors. 
He doesnt think its fair that Barclays have used the money to pay off his credit card debt 
when he had an IVA in place. And he says that the compensation theyve paid isnt enough 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. He thinks they should pay 
him the full amount of the refunds from M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and Ive carefully considered all the points hes 
made. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, so Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that the letter from Barclays dated 4 August is inconsistent with the information he 
was given during the phone call of the same date. I dont find that to be the case. It appears 
that the customer service representative spoke to Mr H on the phone and then followed up 
the conversation in writing. Mr H had complained and asked Barclays to refund his payments 
to M on the basis that they hadnt warned him that M was a scam company and so had failed 
in their duty of care to him. Barclays letter of 4 August says they cant uphold this complaint. 
It explains that they dont validate merchants trading practices and they cant block credit 
card payments to a merchant. So, Barclays didnt agree to refund the payments because of 
any breach of duty on their part. I think that was a reasonable response.
But their letter went on to suggest that they could help Mr H by raising a chargeback claim 
on his behalf, to try and recover the money from M. It set out the information which they 
needed from Mr H to do that. I find this to be consistent with what Mr H was told on the 
phone.
Im satisfied that, once Mr H had provided the requested information to Barclays, they 
initiated the chargeback process. I think it was reasonable for Barclays to attempt a 
chargeback here. As part of that process, they diarised to credit the funds to Mr Hs credit 
card account after 15 days. That happened on 21 August. I think this was a fair approach.But M refunded the payments itself in the meantime. Barclays therefore re-debited the 
credits they had made to the account. I think that was fair, otherwise Mr H would have been 
refunded twice.
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays applied the refunds to his outstanding account balance. But I 
find that it was reasonable for them to do so. The payments to M had been made from the 
credit card in the first place. Mr H hadnt paid them off, so they were outstanding on his 
account. Barclays was therefore entitled to repayment of those sums and I think it was 
reasonable for them to apply the refunds to the account in the way they did, even though Mr 
H had an IVA in place.
 
I realise that Mr H is unhappy that M paid the refunds to his credit card account even though 
he had asked it to send the money to another account. But Im not looking into the actions of 
M here. Im only looking at what Barclays did. And I think the way they treated the refunds 
was reasonable. Its worth noting that any refunds secured by way of a chargeback claim 
would also have been made to the credit card account.
Mr H says that the way Barclays dealt with the situation was unsatisfactory and that he had 
to contact them many times over several weeks to get an answer. He also feels that the 
information he was given was inconsistent. I can understand his point of view. But, overall, I 
think Barclays acted fairly here. They agreed to try and help Mr H recover the money from 
M, and initiated a chargeback claim to do this. Ultimately, the chargeback wasnt needed as 
M made the refund directly. Mr H had made the original payments to M using his credit card 
and those sums were due to Barclays. When the refunds came in, Barclays applied them to 
Mr Hs outstanding balance. I think it was reasonable for them to do so. So Im not going to 
ask them to pay the refunds to Mr H.
Barclays accept that they made a mistake with the double credit and that they gave Mr H 
incorrect information about this initially. They credited his account with £50 in 
acknowledgement of this and then cleared the remaining balance on his account, meaning 
there is nothing more outstanding. I think thats a fair approach. By doing this, I think 
Barclays have already done enough to recognise the impact of their mistakes and any 
element of poor service. So Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman