DRN-3374648
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain their mortgage broker wrongly took payment of their fee for 
obtaining a mortgage offer that didnt provide the free legal service it promised. 
The broker was an appointed representative of Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB). 
References in this decision to MAB include the broker. 
What happened
In around April 2021 Mrs R and Mr R were looking to remortgage. Their interest rate deal 
with their existing lender was due to end in around July that year. They discussed their plans 
with MAB. MAB recommended a deal with a new lender that included, as an incentive, a free 
legal service for the remortgage, using solicitors approved by the lender. 
Mrs R and Mr R accepted the mortgage offer. But they became unhappy with the service 
provided by the solicitors who said there were extra legal fees they may have to pay 
themselves. And they understood from another broker that the lender recommended by MAB 
wouldnt be able to complete the remortgage in time. So, they decided to pull out of the deal 
and borrow elsewhere. Mrs R and Mr R felt MAB should refund their fee since the terms of 
the mortgage offer were breached.
When MAB didnt uphold their complaint, Mrs R and Mr R brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think MAB had done anything wrong. Since Mrs R and 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention here everything the parties have said. Ill focus on the issues I consider 
key to reaching my decision. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of the service the Financial Ombudsman provides. Id like to reassure the 
parties Ive considered their evidence and arguments carefully before reaching my decision. 
And I acknowledge Mrs R and Mr Rs strength of feeling about what happened. 
MAB initially discussed things with Mrs R and Mr R over the phone at the end of April 2021. 
In summary, Mrs R and Mr R said they were planning to build their own property at some 
point in the future. In the meantime they were looking to increase the equity in their property 
and to reduce the amount of interest they paid over the term of their mortgage. They 
discussed reducing the term of the mortgage; maintaining the contractual monthly payments 
at around the same level as their existing mortgage so they could continue to save and have 
the flexibility to make overpayments from time to time; fixing their interest rate at a 
favourable rate over a five year period; and having free valuation and legal services for the 
remortgage, if possible. 
In mid-May 2021 Mrs R and Mr R signed documents to confirm they agreed MABs terms 
and conditions (the contract). Mrs R and Mr R argue the contract was for an advice service 
for an offset mortgage which they didnt receive. They say MAB just provided a brokerage 
service. I disagree. Just because they didnt go down the offset mortgage route, doesnt 
mean the contract didnt apply. Im satisfied MAB were advising them on an alternative and 
that the terms and conditions of the contract theyd signed applied.
I think the contract set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, as Id expect, that 
the broker they were dealing with was an appointed representative of MAB and, amongst 
other things, that:
MAB provided a full advice and recommendation service to reflect their mortgage 
needs and preferences
a fee for arranging the mortgage of £195 would be payable once a mortgage offer 
came through
MAB didnt offer a refund of mortgage fees
So, I think Mrs R and Mr R ought to have understood who they were dealing with; that the 
contract related to the work MAB were doing in assessing their needs and requirements and 
sourcing a suitable mortgage product for them; and that theyd have to pay the broker fee 
once the lender issued a mortgage offer. Regardless, MAB confirmed to them on the phone, 
shortly before sending a mortgage report and mortgage illustration, that their fee would be 
payable once the offer came in.
I acknowledge the mortgage illustration set out that Mrs R and Mr R would benefit from a 
free legal service using approved solicitors paid for by the lender. But I note the mortgage 
report, which they were asked to check reflected their requirements before the offer was 
issued, didnt refer to free legal advice. Im not aware they raised that as a concern with MAB 
at the time. And based on what they discussed with MAB about their needs and 
requirements initially, Im not persuaded Mrs R and Mr R would have rejected the offer even 
if theyd known they might need to pay for some additional legal work beyond what was 
usually needed to process a remortgage. I acknowledge Mrs R and Mr R wont agree. But I 
dont think it affects the outcome of their complaint in any event, as Ill explain.
Mrs R and Mr R were unhappy the solicitors said theyd have to pay for some of the work 
themselves. They said that was a breach of the terms of the offer that said legal services 
would be free of charge. They argue the alleged breach means MAB should refund their fee. 
But the offer was made by the lender, not MAB. So even if it was right to say the failure to 
provide an entirely free legal service amounts to a breach of the terms of the offer, its not 
fair and reasonable to hold MAB responsible for that. MAB arent responsible either for the 
allegedly poor service provided by the solicitors. Mrs R and Mr R would need to have 
directed their concerns about the lender and/or their solicitors to those parties, not MAB. 
MABs role didnt include establishing whether any legal arrangements between Mrs R and 
Mr R might affect whether they had to pay some legal fees themselves, or what additional 
charges the lenders solicitors might seek to raise. They arent legal experts. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect MAB to have anticipated the extra legal costs the solicitors might seek 
to raise or the service issues that concerned Mrs R and Mr R. 
MAB offered to help overcome the problems that arose by contacting the lender and 
solicitors on Mrs R and Mr Rs behalf, which I think was fair and reasonable. I understand 
Mrs R and Mr R decided to go to an alternative solicitor through a different broker without 
resolving their concerns. So, its not possible to say whether theyd have had to pay any 
legal fees in the end if theyd continued with the lender MAB recommended. Mrs R and Mr R also say the offer MAB got for them was unsuitable on grounds the lender 
was taking longer than other lenders to process applications. They rely on information from 
another broker that said the lender was taking around 60 days to issue an offer. But the offer 
here was issued within days of the illustration. I acknowledge issues with the solicitors might 
have led Mrs R and Mr R to think the process would be delayed beyond the end of their 
existing fixed rate term. But its not possible to say that would have happened. And I wouldnt 
expect MAB to have anticipated possible delays on the part of the solicitors. 
Mrs R and Mr R raised an issue regarding the value of the property that appeared on the 
mortgage offer. Im not aware it affected the deal they were offered. Since Mrs R and Mr R 
decided not to go ahead with the offer, it didnt impact them significantly. MAB put the right 
information in the application so they arent responsible for any error.
Mrs R and Mr R complain MAB put them under pressure to pay the fee when they knew 
there was an issue with the solicitors. And they said they hadnt authorised the payment for 
the fee to go through even though Mr R had put his payment details into MABs payment 
system. The fee was due in mid-May and unpaid by early June. So, it was reasonable for 
MAB to ask for payment. I dont think MAB placed undue pressure on Mrs R and Mr R for 
payment. Mr R feels he ought to have been given the chance to authorise payment after 
hed provided his payment details to MAB. But they took payment through their system 
without the need for that to happen. I think it was reasonable for MAB to process the 
payment since it was overdue. 
Overall Im satisfied MAB met their obligations to recommend a suitable mortgage for Mrs R 
and Mr R bearing in mind their needs and requirements. And I dont think MAB treated Mrs R 
and Mr R unfairly. MAB were entitled to their fee once the lender had issued an offer. So, 
whilst I understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed, I wont ask MAB to refund it. And I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman