DRN-2758665
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he was provided when he took out a new commercial 
vehicle insurance policy with One Call Insurance Services Limited. 
What happened
Mr R held a commercial vehicle insurance policy arranged by One Call. During the policy 
year he called to change the van insured on the policy. One Call said that it would be 
cheaper for Mr R to cancel his existing policy and take out a new one for the new van. Mr R 
agreed.
Mr R said he understood that the payment he made to set up the new policy included any 
payment from the old policy. In other words, he thought that after taking out the new policy, 
hed not have to pay anything more toward the old one. So, Mr R was surprised to find that 
shortly after taking out the policy One Call attempted to take two payments from his account. 
Mr R said this put him temporarily into his overdraft which was stressful at the time.
Mr R said he tried to contact One Call about this, but the only way he could talk to it was 
through the online chat function. And hes said he didnt find One Call helpful throughout the 
process at all.
Mr R complained to One Call. He wasnt happy it tried to take two payments from him, he 
also wasnt happy the direct debit was being taken on the day he thought it would be. And he 
wasnt happy with the service hed got while trying to resolve the issue on One Calls online 
chat function.
One Call upheld Mr Rs complaint. It acknowledged the information it gave on the online help 
function wasnt helpful. It said Mr R still had an outstanding balance to pay on the new 
policy, but that this wasnt made clear to him, so it agreed to waive it.
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said he thought there wasnt an 
outstanding balance on either policy, so doesnt think One Calls offer to waive £55.20 has in 
effect helped him or recognised the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him. He 
also said he wasnt sure which van was still insured and that One Call hadnt made this 
clear.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
thought that One Call hadnt shown that there was an outstanding balance on the policies 
and recommended One Call pay Mr R £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
He also recommended the direct debit be moved to the first of the month as Mr R had 
requested. The investigator also confirmed the correct van was insured.
One Call didnt respond to our investigators assessment, so the case has been passed to 
me to issue an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
One Call and Mr R dont dispute that two direct debits shouldnt have been taken. And 
neither Mr R nor One Call dispute that Mr R wasnt provided the best service when he tried 
to resolve the issue on the online chat function.
One Call has said there was still an outstanding balance on Mr Rs account with them. It 
thinks by waiving this, its done enough to compensate Mr R for its errors. But Mr R 
disagrees that there was an outstanding balance.
Weve asked One Call for a breakdown of Mr Rs account to see what happened, but weve 
not been provided this. So, One Call hasnt been able to show what amount was left 
outstanding on the account. Nor has it been able to show why the direct debit wasnt moved 
over to the first of the month as Mr R had requested. This means I cant fairly say its 
whether any balance was rightfully due and whether One Call has in effect waived anything.
I can appreciate it would be worrying to be put into your overdraft and potentially incur 
charges from the bank or other providers. Mr R hasnt shown us that he did get charged by 
another business. And Im aware he was able to move some money around to make sure he 
wasnt charged and kept his other commitments. But I appreciate this must have been 
distressing for him. And it was an inconvenience too.
Therefore, to compensate for that distress and inconvenience, One Call should pay Mr R 
£75 compensation.
Im aware its been over a year since Mr R took out the policy so it will likely have lapsed. 
And for that reason, Im not recommending One Call move the direct debit. But, if this isnt 
the case and the policy is still live, then One Call should move the direct debit to the first of 
the month.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require One Call Insurance 
Services Limited to:
Pay Mr R £75 compensation  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman