DRN-1536068
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc hasn't fairly dealt with a claim she 
made under a protection policy she took out for her washing machine. 
What happened
Mrs M received a leaflet from D & G and so she decided to protect her washing machine 
against breakdown. Around a month later, she had a leak from her washing machine and so 
she made a claim under the policy. An engineer couldn't attend until the following Saturday. 
Despite waiting in for the engineer, none arrived. Mrs M contacted D & G and was told the 
engineer hadn't turned up for that day so it arranged a new appointment for the following 
day. 
The engineer attended, and discovered the drum needed replacing. The engineer didn't 
have one and it needed to be ordered. As it was coming from abroad, it was going to be 
about another week before the part arrived. Mrs M complained as she had been left without 
facilities to wash her clothes, and she was soon going on holiday. Because of that she 
wanted the matter resolved quickly, otherwise she would buy a new machine and ask D&G 
for reimbursement. 
D&G considered the complaint. It paid Mrs M £45 compensation for the inconvenience the 
missed appointment had caused, and for the delays in the part arriving. It also said it would 
cover any laundrette costs. However, it had booked her in for a repair the day after the part 
was due to arrive and so it didn't agree it should reimburse her if she decided to buy a new 
machine.  
Mrs M asked us to look into her complaint. She felt D&G had breached its contract with her, 
and she wanted to be reimbursed the £349 she had spent on a new washing machine. Our 
investigator concluded D&G had already resolved the complaint with the compensation 
offered for the inconvenience caused. She also felt the offer to cover laundry costs was fair - 
albeit that her husband could have driven her (Mrs M doesn't drive due to a disability).  
Mrs M has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she says her 
husband has never used a washing machine and to suggest her husband do the washing is 
inappropriate. She argues that when she signed up to the policy she expected a repair within 
a reasonable amount of time and doesn't believe any delays in delivery of a part should be 
her problem. She would like £150 compensation towards the cost of the new washing 
machine and questions whether her old machine can be repaired, so she can sell it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. Mrs M's policy entitles her to a repair, a 
replacement or the cost of a replacement product at D&G's option. The policy further sets out there will be some situations where it will arrange a replacement instead of a repair; for 
example if the covered item can't be repaired or it is uneconomical to do so. 
Mrs M needed a replacement drum for her washing machine. I do understand her need for 
the washing machine to be repaired quickly, particularly as she was due to go away on 
holiday. But I don't think the delay in being able to repair it meant the contract had been 
breached - there is no set time limit in the contract for repairs to be carried out. Indeed, I 
would find such a clause to be highly unusual, insurers are rarely the manufacturer and so 
its ability to carry out repairs is dependent on the availability of parts. It wouldn't have known 
at the time of the call out, that Mrs M would need a replacement drum, or that one wouldn't 
be available. 
Nevertheless, I do agree Mrs M should be entitled to expect a repair to be carried out in a 
reasonable amount of time. I don't find the amount of time here to be unreasonable, given a 
part had to be ordered and delivered from abroad. And I find D&G's offer to reimburse 
laundrette costs to be a fair and reasonable one. Although Mrs M wasn't able to drive, I 
understand her husband did drive her to buy the new washing machine, so I think he could 
have driven her to a laundrette (our investigator did not suggest Mrs M's husband do the 
washing). As D&G was willing to carry out a repair, and was willing to reimburse any laundry 
costs, I find no basis on which to ask it reimburse all or some of her costs towards a new 
washing machine. 
I note Mrs M has also raised some other points. She says she has discovered there is a 
known manufacturing fault with the drums. But this wouldn't be a point for D&G to consider 
but something she'll need to take up with the manufacturer if she wishes to pursue that. She 
has also queried whether D&G can still carry out the repair as she still has the old washing 
machine in storage. If she still wants the repair then she'll need to approach D&G about 
that. 
Overall, I'm satisfied D&G has fairly resolved Mrs M's complaint and so I won't be asking it to 
do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman