DRN-3164632
The complaint
 Mr W is unhappy because Starling Bank Limited refused to reimburse the money he 
unwittingly transferred to a fraudster. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all the parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail. But, in summary:
In June 2020 Mr W received a call from fraudsters who were pretended to be HMRC 
employees. 
The fraudsters persuaded Mr W to transfer two amounts of money, totalling £5,998, to 
two different accounts that were under their control. 
The fraud was uncovered when Mr W called his accountant, after sending the second 
payment. And he called Starling to report the fraud soon after.
Starling considered Mr Ws claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code 
(the Code). This is a voluntary scheme Starling has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. But a firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a 
customer has not met their requisite level of care. And, in this case, Starling refused to 
refund the money Mr W sent to the fraudsters because it said he had:
 
ignored effective warnings, and;
made the payments without having a reasonable basis for belief that they were for 
legitimate purposes.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Starlings decision. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think 
the bank had given Mr W effective warnings and he believed Mr W had a reasonable basis 
for believing he was paying HMRC. Starling disagreed, so the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. Im satisfied that, under the terms of the Code, Starling should have refunded the 
money Mr W lost because Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply, given the particular circumstances of this case. 
Ive carefully considered Starlings comments about the warnings it gave and whether Mr W 
had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they dont persuade 
me to reach a different view. 
Under the provisions of the Code, an effective warning must have been (as a
minimum) understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. And Im satisfied Starling 
didnt provide an effective warning in this particular case. I appreciate the information 
provided on Starlings website is fairly comprehensive and does specifically cover HMRC 
scams. But, in order for a customer to see this, they would need to click the link provided by 
Starling near the start of the payment journey. The message that Starling says it presented 
to Mr W simply says Could this be part of a scam. If in doubt, just stop here and visit our 
website to learn about avoiding fraud. But, as Ill explain further below, Mr W didnt think he 
was being scammed and didnt have any doubts about the payments he was being asked to 
make. So this warning wasnt impactful and doesnt seem to have grabbed his attention in 
the way that Starling intended.
Starling says Mr W selected that he was making a payment to his own account and this 
meant he was given additional warnings about safe account scams instead of more 
relevant warnings. But I accept Mr Ws assertion that the fraudster guided him through the 
payment journey and told him which payment option to select  likely because they knew 
choosing the own account option would mean Mr W wouldnt be presented with warnings 
that more closely mirrored his situation. And the safe account warnings Mr W was likely 
shown bore no resemblance to the situation Mr W found himself in. So I dont think the 
warnings Mr W saw were impactful and ought to have affected his decision to make the 
payments.
Im also satisfied Starling hasnt shown that Mr W lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Mr Ws circumstances meant a call from HMRC wasnt entirely unexpected. He was 
awaiting a tax rebate, was due to pay end of year corporation tax and had limited 
experience when it came to taxation matters as his limited company had only been in 
effect since April of the previous year. 
The number the fraudsters called Mr W from is not one that seems to have any genuine 
links to HMRC and Starling has suggested Mr W ought to have done more to check this 
before complying with the callers demands for payment. But Ive already explained why 
Mr W didnt find a call from someone purporting to be from HMRC entirely unexpected. I 
also note the fraudsters directed him to HMRCs website and attempted to take him 
through a confirmation process there which included providing him with a verification 
code. Im not surprised Mr W found this convincing and didnt seek to verify the number 
the call was coming from.
Mr W says the fraudsters placed him under a considerable amount of pressure to make  
quick payments, at a time when he was busy at work. They convinced him that if he 
didnt make the first payment straightaway, a court summons would be issued and he 
would incur substantial legal fees. And the second payment was intended to secure an 
appointment to further discuss his tax situation. I think the fraudsters deliberately tried to 
create fear in the hope it would disrupt Mr Ws thought processes and make him more 
compliant. Its important to consider the actions Mr W took against this backdrop.
In all the circumstances I think Mr W ought reasonably to have been fully refunded under the 
Code. Its not entirely clear how Mr W would otherwise have used the money  it originated 
from personal and business accounts he held with other banks. As, he has been deprived of 
the use of that money, I think he should also be awarded interest, as set out below.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and I direct 
Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr W:£5,998, plus;
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Starling declined Mr Ws claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement.
This award should be paid by Starling within 28 days of receiving Mr Ws acceptance of my 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman