DRN-1989390
The complaint
Mr S complains as a director of B, a limited company, about HSBC UK Bank Plc closing Bs 
business account.
What happened
HSBC wrote to B in May 2019 asking it to update and confirm some business details. HSBC 
explained they need to make sure they hold the right information about B to help fight 
against fraud and financial crime. HSBC invited B to telephone them so they could provide 
guidance on how to complete the online Customer Information Review. HSBC said if they 
dont receive this information they may have to give B notice to close the account and 
referred to clause 29 of their Business Banking Terms and Conditions which allowed them to 
do this.
 
The Business Banking Terms and Conditions, under clause 11, says that if HSBC makes a 
reasonable request for information then the business account holder should give it as soon 
as possible. It goes on further to say that if the information isnt provided then HSBC can 
close the account. Under clause 29 it says HSBC can close an account by giving at least two 
months notice.
 
Having not heard back, HSBC chased B in June 2019 and explained they needed B to 
update and confirm their business details by 3 September 2019. They again invited B to 
contact them by telephone so they could guide B on how to complete the Customer 
Information Review. A Business Telephone Banking form was then received from B which 
was reviewed by HSBC and rejected because there was information missing. 
Mr S complained to HSBC in July 2019. He said that he had wasted time trying to deal with 
the Customer Information Review by completing online forms. He also explained he had 
visited a branch and also kept waiting for a long period on the telephone to sort out the 
telephone banking. HSBC responded to the request for telephone banking and explained 
they werent able to proceed with the request as a copy of Bs Rules and Regulations wasnt 
included with the application. They explained that, in order to register for the telephone 
banking service, they require a new application from B together with a copy of Bs Rules and 
Regulations which must include a clause for the power of delegation to one person. HSBC 
said this was required as HSBCs electronic banking services allow the primary user to have 
access to the accounts and make payments solely. HSBC also asked for a copy of the 
minutes of the meeting in which either of the persons, signing the new application form, was 
appointed as Chairperson or Secretary. 
HSBC then responded to the complaint and in relation to the telephone banking issue, they 
referred to their previous letter. In relation to the Customer Information Review issue, they 
asked for proof of address details and provided an email address for it to be sent. HSBC 
apologised for Mr Ss call wait and explained they do need B to complete the review. HSBC 
asked for the required details by 3 September 2019 otherwise the account would be closed. 
Having not heard back, HSBC wrote to B on 3 September 2019 giving notice that they would 
be closing the account on 12 November 2019. HSBC explained that if B would like to retain 
its account then to call HSBC so they can provide guidance on completing the Customer 
Information Review. 
Notes provided by HSBC show that a call attempt was made to B in October 2019 but this 
wasnt successful, so a voicemail message was left. Having not heard back, Bs account was 
closed on 14 November 2019. 
Mr S complained about the lack of support and said that hed been told to speak with the 
Safeguarding team but they wouldnt discuss the matter with him. HSBC responded in 
February 2020 and accepted there had been an issue with the service provided, they 
apologised for the inconvenience and offered £100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for B. HSBC told us that the £100 offered was for any 
inconvenience caused by the safeguarding process. In particular, it was because, in letters 
sent in May and June 2019, B was directed to speak with the Safeguarding team but, when 
Mr S tried, he was told they couldnt discuss the matter with him as B wasnt set up for 
telephone banking. HSBC explained, while Mr S feels the review caused inconvenience, 
HSBC have a right to ensure they hold the correct information for all their customers. 
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by HSBC was fair. B disagreed and requested 
£250 which HSBC refused, so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided HSBCs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. Ill explain why. 
I can see that HSBC, in line with their Business Banking Terms and Conditions, made a 
reasonable request for information. Its important for a bank to ensure they have enough 
information to help guard against any fraud so I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
ask for the information they did. The information they required wasnt sent, despite chasers, 
so in view of the terms and conditions, I feel HSBC havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
giving at least two months notice and then closing the account. 
While I feel HSBC have acted in line with their terms and conditions, I do need to consider 
whether they applied the policy fairly. There appear to be two requests for information here. 
Firstly, the request for information to complete the Customer Information Review, and 
secondly, the information needed to set up the telephone banking. HSBCs decision to close 
Bs account was based on not receiving the information relating to the review. There is 
however a link between the two in that, Mr S wanted to discuss the review issue with the 
safeguarding team but couldnt because B wasnt set up for telephone banking. This led to B 
making an application and further information being requested. 
Mr S has said that he hasnt received any requests for minutes of meetings or proof of power 
delegation to one person. He says had he received such a request he wouldve provided it. I 
can see that HSBC did make this request in July 2019 and the letter has been addressed 
correctly. Its unfortunate if this letter wasnt received but I cant hold HSBC responsible for 
what mightve been an error by the postal service. I would also add, the request for this 
information doesnt relate to the Customer Information Review. It relates to the application 
for telephone banking. 
So, the decision by HSBC to close the account wasnt based on B not providing this 
information. Rather, it was based on the information requested, and not received, relating to 
the review. And, while I understand Mr S wanted to speak with the safeguarding team, but couldnt until B was set up for telephone banking, HSBC did provide an email address for B 
to send information relating to the review. So, I believe this couldve been sent regardless of 
the issues with the telephone banking to enable the review to progress. 
      
Theres a general Financial Conduct Authority principle that firms must provide consumers 
with clear information and to keep them appropriately informed. In this case, I think HSBC 
have acted in line with this principle by setting out exactly what they needed to progress the 
review and what the consequences would be if they didnt receive this information. On this 
basis, I believe HSBC have acted in a fair manner. 
I understand Mr S had problems speaking with HSBC by telephone and I agree with HSBCs 
view on there being an error in the safeguard process. In the letters sent by HSBC in May 
and June, they asked Mr S to contact them by telephone, the number they gave was for the 
Safeguarding team. Mr S says he telephoned them but it appears they wouldnt discuss the 
matter with him. HSBC offered £100 compensation in recognition of any inconvenienced 
caused. 
Ive agreed there has been an error by HSBC so I will now consider whether the offer put 
forward by them is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to settle the complaint. 
Mr S says that he was told he couldnt speak with HSBC unless B registered for telephone 
banking. This wasnt set up by HSBC because there was further information they needed, 
which wasnt provided. While Im of the view that it was reasonable for HSBC to request this 
information, I believe it has caused B inconvenience in being directed to make telephone 
calls when HSBC shouldve known the Safeguarding team wouldnt be able to discuss the 
matter without B being registered for telephone banking. I have taken account of the 
relatively short period of time the inconvenience continued and feel that the offer put forward 
by HSBC is fair and reasonable. 
I note Mr S says that B no longer has a bank account. Mr S has also asked if the 
compensation can be paid directly to him and he will, if necessary, get consent from his 
fellow directors. A limited company is a separate legal entity from the people who run it. The 
issue here concerns a bank account for which the customer was B. So, we can't 
compensate the directors personally. We can make awards for inconvenience  as long as it 
was experienced by the company itself, rather than the people bringing the complaint. So, I 
see no other way in which the compensation can be paid other than for B to set up an 
account to enable any compensation to be paid in.
  
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to B to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £100 to B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman