DRN-2726792
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading 
as Tesco Bank (Tesco) when she asked for a payment break on her loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has a loan with Tesco. In April 2020 she asked for a payment break as the 
pandemic had impacted her ability to make payments. Tesco agreed to this, but 
because of high demand it wasnt implemented properly. This led to arrears being 
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Tesco accepts it let Mrs C down 
here, and I agree it did.
When Mrs C brought the matter to Tescos attention things werent fully corrected 
straightaway. But ultimately it backdated the payment break and asked the CRAs to 
remove the adverse information from her credit file. I think this put matters right as it 
returned Mrs C to the position shed have been in had the payment break been 
implemented properly in the first place. Mrs C has further told our service this matter 
didnt cause her a financial loss. 
Mrs C says her credit card limit with another bank was reduced significantly because 
of the adverse information Tesco reported to the credit reference agencies. I cant 
say for certain this was the case as credit card limits can change for many reasons. 
But I think its likely the adverse information was a factor. So I can understand 
Mrs Cs frustration. Fortunately, there wasnt an urgent need for Mrs C to utilise her 
original credit card limit and Im pleased to see her new limit left her with some 
available credit should the need arise. 
Tesco apologised to Mrs C and offered her £400 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience this matter caused her. Mrs C doesnt think this is 
enough. I have some sympathy for Mrs C, especially as shes told us about how this 
was a difficult time for her. But £400 is quite a lot of money. And Im satisfied it, 
alongside Tescos apology and the actions it took to put things right, is a fair 
resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Cs frustration, my final decision is that 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has resolved this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman