DRN-3131369
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc provided him with poor service in relation to a
chargeback claim. He feels hes lost out financially and would like Barclays to compensate
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021 setting out what I intended to decide 
about this complaint. I set out a copy of this decision below. 
What happened
Mr B purchased furniture using his debit card from a store who I shall refer to as H. The
payment was made on 11 March 2020 and the transaction amount was for £9,000. On 3
June, Mr B cancelled the order. H agreed to the cancellation and said it would refund the
amount hed paid.
On 30 June H went into liquidation.
Mr B says he couldnt locate the refund, so he contacted Barclays for help. He explained the
situation, that is, hed cancelled the order and H had said it would refund him. On 5 July
2020 Barclays said it would raise a chargeback on his behalf - and submitted a claim under
the reason code Cancelled Merchandise/Services. It also credited Mr Bs account with
£9,000 pending the outcome of its investigation.
Barclays received a response from Hs bank who I shall call W  this confirmed that the
order Mr B had placed had been cancelled, it provided screen shots showing the
cancellation, some of the items and their cost. There was some additional information about
one of the invoices forming part of the £9,000 order, which said it believed Mr B was liable
for £27 as he had taken a care kit from the store.
Barclays chargeback team wrote to Mr B on 29 July with the information it had received. It
said there were attachments with the letter for him to review and he should contact them
within 10 days if this didnt resolve his dispute.
Mr B contacted his premier banking team as there wasnt anything with the letter. It sent him
the missing documents. Mr B contacted it again on 19 August  he said he wanted the
dispute to end and was therefore happy to take a loss on the £27. The premier team
responded to say that it couldnt help but gave him a contact number to call. Mr B called that
number but it wasnt valid.
On 22 August, Mr B emailed the chargeback team directly. He reiterated that he had ordered
the furniture and cancelled the order. He added that as he had taken the care kit he would
absorb the £27. But the rest of the goods hadnt been received due to the cancellation. He
wanted to know the outcome of his claim and mentioned hed contacted Barclays 4 times
about this but to no avail.
Mr B didnt hear anything further until Barclays said it would be debiting his account with the
temporary credit because his claim had been closed (hed been held liable for the £9,000
transaction).
Mr B complained - he said he didnt understand how this could be the outcome. He
reiterated he hadnt received any goods because the order was cancelled and hed been
contacting the bank about his dispute.
Barclays issued a final response. It said it had closed the chargeback claim because Mr B
hadnt responded to its letter of 29 July. It recognised some of the service it had provided
had been poor but declined to refund the £9,000. It maintained it hadnt got a response from
him. It suggested Mr B attempt to recover his money through alternative means but offered
him £100 for poor service.
Mr B rejected the offer  he contacted us. In doing so he provided evidence in the form of an
email from H to say that the order had been cancelled and hed be refunded.
His complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt recommend it be
upheld. While she accepted Barclays had given Mr B poor service, she didnt feel the
chargeback would have been successful even if Barclays had handled things better than it
did because there was no evidence to suggest H had processed a refund to his account and
it had gone into liquidation.
Mr B didnt agree  he said he wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint.
]
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When something goes wrong between a cardholder and the retailer, the chargeback scheme
may be used to try and resolve that problem, without needing to resort to more formal
resolution, such as court action. There are several grounds under which a chargeback can
be raised. Ill say more about whats relevant to this case below.
When Mr B contacted Barclays about the £9,000 payment hed made, Im satisfied hed
provided enough information for it to take things forward on his behalf. I say this because
Barclays raised the chargeback under reason code cancellation of merchandise/services
(this is correct), as this is exactly what Mr B described had happened in his case; Mr B had
cancelled his order. According to the terms and conditions of his agreement with H, Mr B
had the right to cancel the order and get a refund if he did. I have attached a copy of the
relevant section of the agreement with my provisional decision as this is relevant and Ill
comment on this further a bit later.
When Barclays received a response from Hs bank, W, it wrote to Mr B to review the
information. However, I think this is where some of the mistakes occurred. In its letter of 29
July Barclays said,
We have some information about the payments you did not recognise.
We have some documents for you to look at. I have enclosed copies for you...
If these documents do not resolve your dispute, please write to us within the next ten days.

If we do not hear from you within the next 10 days, we will assume that you no longer want
us to look into your payment(s).The key thing to note about this letter is that Barclays incorrectly referred to the payment as
not being recognised when that was not what Mr B had told it and crucially nor was it the
basis on which the chargeback had been raised by the bank. Mr B never disputed making
the payment. His claim arose out of him cancelling the order and seeking a refund because
he hadnt got the goods. So, I think that whoever handled the chargeback should have
spotted this and the letter referring to an unrecognised payment shouldnt have been sent 
it wasnt relevant to the facts.
Furthermore, W provided evidence to confirm Mr B had cancelled the order, which supported
his claim. The relevant extract from the document says, 3 June 2020 - customer called to
cancel order as they are no longer purchasing the property. I consider Barclays chargeback
team was the expert here (not Mr B) and I think it had enough information to progress the
chargeback. Ive seen no reasonable explanation as to why it didnt in these circumstances;
W wasnt putting forward a valid defence  the supporting documentation corroborated the
order was cancelled. I accept there was the matter of the £27 for the care kit but that was
marginal in comparison to the overall payment. The additional notes also indicated an
acceptance of liability for a refund in respect of an invoice forming part of the order.
Despite the banks position, its of note that Mr B got in touch with it on getting the letter  in
fact he contacted it a number of times. He was asking for the missing attachments. Mr Bs
actions werent consistent with someone who considered the claim resolved. In one call on
20 August, he spoke to someone at the bank who looked at the chargeback. He was told the
claim was open and it was still disputing this on his behalf. Im satisfied Mr B was
reassured that he didnt need to do anything when he specifically mentioned the letter and
the 10-day timescale to respond. In the circumstances I think Mr B was reasonably entitled
to rely on this information.
Mr B also told the chargeback team by email on 22 August that he was happy to lose the
money for the care kit, but the rest of the goods hadnt been received as the order was
cancelled. He asked it to confirm the outcome of the chargeback and expressed his
frustration that he had been pursuing this but to no avail. He made the same point over the
phone.
Once Mr B referred his complaint to us, he provided some additional information from H
about a refund it says was made in July 2020. We know that the refund wasnt made back
onto the card he used because nothing landed back on his account and Barclays accepts
theres no evidence that a refund was processed. H may have been referring to a credit note
but its not entirely clear. Whatever the case, even if there was a credit note it had no value
given that H had by that point ceased trading. So, I cant see W would have been able to
offer a valid defence to the chargeback. Indeed, I cant see any reason why the claim 
wouldnt have been successful given the evidence confirmed the cancellation and W didnt 
offer a defence in line with the card scheme rules. It should be noted the fact that H had by 
July gone into administration and ceased trading has no bearing because liability would sit 
with W (as the merchant acquirer) and not H.
With this in mind, I think its fair to say Barclays failure to deal with the chargeback
effectively has led directly to Mr B being unable to recover the money H was supposed to
refund him, and that it should therefore compensate him for this loss. According to his
contract with H, Mr B would have been entitled to an 80% refund because his cancellation
took place after the initial period of 24 hours after placing his order but before any delivery.
The agreement indicates that H will retain 20% to cover its costs. This indicates a loss of
£1,800 with a refund of £7,200, less £27 for the care kit and for which he accepted he
received value. This is a financial loss to Mr B of £7,173.As well as the direct loss, I think Barclays actions caused Mr B distress and inconvenience.
Hes explained the situation resulted in him experiencing frustration each time he contacted
the bank and had to explain things again. Ive listened to the calls and I dont think Barclays
handle things well. Mr B had to repeat himself each time  he explains whats happened and
what hes trying to do but the point is missed. I think this would have caused Mr B a lot of
worry considering the amount involved. So, I think its only right he should be compensated
for this as well. I assess £300 to be a fair amount (this figure includes the £100 Barclays has
previously offered).
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank 
UK Plc to:
1. pay Mr B £7,173 for what he lost on the chargeback;
2. 8% interest on 1 (above) from date Barclays removed the temporary credit from his
account to the date of settlement, as he has been deprived of the use of these funds;
and
3. Pay him a total of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. Barclays asked for 
clarification on some of the information it had got from W and I provided this. It then 
responded to say it also accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it. 
There were a number of shortcomings on Barclays part in dealing with the chargeback claim, 
which led to Mr B incurring a financial loss and suffering distress and inconvenience. I 
consider my decision fairly compensates Mr B for what happened and I hope hes now able 
to put this matter behind him.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK
Plc to:
1. pay Mr B £7,173 for what he lost on the chargeback;
2. 8% interest on 1 (above) from date Barclays removed the temporary credit from his
account to the date of settlement, as he has been deprived of the use of these funds;
and
3. Pay him a total of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman