DRN-1845505
The complaint
Miss E complains that Vanquis Bank Limited was irresponsible in offering her a loan of 
£2000. Shed now like the details of this loan removed from her credit file and all interest 
added to the loan to be refunded. In addition, Miss E is unhappy about a late payment 
marker put on her credit file by Vanquis and would like this removed.
What happened
In August 2018 Vanquis accepted Miss Es application for a loan of £2000 to be repaid over 
3 years. Miss E says that, if Vanquis had carried out proper checks, it would have known the 
loan wasnt affordable based on her income and her spending at that time. It would have 
been clear from her bank and credit card statements that she was making frequent 
payments to gambling sites and that her actual income wasnt enough to support her existing 
commitments and a new loan.
Miss E said shes had previous financial problems and had been in a debt recovery plan that 
only ended in April 2018. As such she feels Vanquis should have carried out more detailed 
checks on her ability to fund this loan. It hadnt and it also hadnt carried out a credit check at 
the credit reference agencies. She feels this was irresponsible and says the loan made her 
financial situation worse as she had to borrow from elsewhere to make the payments. She 
wants all interest added to the loan to be cancelled and details of the loan removed from her 
credit file.
Miss E also complains about a late payment marker put on her credit file following a missed 
payment on her Vanquis credit card in June 2018. She says she had a payment set up to 
make a monthly payment but by mistake, two payments were made in May 2018. She 
thought this would be carried forward to June and so didnt make a payment that month. She 
feels it was unfair of Vanquis to put a late payment marker on her credit file for this and 
would now like it removed.
Vanquis didnt agree with the complaint. It said it had assessed Miss Es loan application on 
the basis of the information shed supplied and other information from industry sources. In 
her application Miss E had said her monthly income was £1,610 and after her expenditure 
was taken out, this left a disposal income of £561. The loan repayments were £89.40 and, 
on that basis, it felt they were affordable. It had also obtained a report on her overall credit 
status that showed that she had no recent defaults, missed payments (other than the one in 
June 2018) or cash loans and that she had a low outstanding credit balance at that time. 
Taking this, together with the fact shed been making payments on her credit card that were 
much higher than the minimum, it didnt agree the loan had been unaffordable.
It said the late payment marker had been applied in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. For that reason, it couldnt agree it had made a mistake and, because it was 
correct, it wasnt able to remove it from Miss Es credit file.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Based on Miss Es stated income and 
expenditure and the absence of any adverse credit data, she couldnt say the loan had been 
unaffordable at the time it was issued. Although she understood that thered been some 
confusion with the payments, that had led to Junes credit card payment being missed, shed 
seen that the late entry marker had been correctly applied so she wouldnt be asking 
Vanquis to remove it from Miss Es credit file.
Miss E disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said in 
summary:
Shed been discharged from bankruptcy in April 2018 and this should have prompted 
Vanquis to make more enquiries as to her ability to repay any loan but it hadnt done 
so;
If it had checked her recent bank and credit card statements, it would have seen that 
there were an excessive number of gambling transactions on them which should 
have raised concerns.
Shed never stated that her income was £41,000 as had been said. Further Vanquis 
should have checked her income as £1,600 wasnt reasonable for a part time job in a 
supermarket. It hadnt however asked for wage slips or other verification.
Shed had to borrow money to pay her Vanquis loan and credit card which had made 
her financial situation worse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Miss E feels about the offer of this loan and the late entry marker on 
her credit file. However, having reviewed all of the information available, I dont consider 
Vanquis has acted unreasonably so I wont be asking it to do anything more as Ill now 
explain.
At the heart of this complaint is the question of whether Vanquis made reasonable enquiries 
into Miss Es finances before offering her the loan. Vanquis, like all lenders, has to satisfy 
itself that any borrowing is both affordable and sustainable. Theres no precise list of checks 
that must be made but they have to be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of the 
borrowing. While its up to the business to decide in each case what checks it wants to carry 
out, its usual to check the borrowers income and expenditure and to look at their overall 
credit profile to see if theres anything that might suggest the borrowing isnt appropriate. 
However, it has to be remembered that any checks can only show the position as at that 
time and wont necessarily show up any problems that might occur in the future.
In this case Vanquis made a number of checks. It asked Miss E to complete an application 
form providing details of her work and her income. It also asked her to complete an income 
and expenditure form. And in addition to this it obtained a credit report on Miss Es current 
credit status and her overall debt. That seems to me to be reasonable.
In the application form, Miss E stated that she had an income of £1,610 and the income and 
expenditure form suggested she had disposable income of £561 a month. As the loan 
repayments were £89.40, I dont think there was anything in these to indicate the payments 
werent unaffordable.
Vanquis says it also took into account Miss Es credit card application in 2017. This stated 
she had a personal income of £41,000 and while it seems now that this may have been a mistake, Vanquis couldnt have known this at the time and I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Vanquis to take this into account in its assessment. 
Miss E feels Vanquis should have asked for copies of her recent payslips. She says, if it had, 
it would have seen her income was much less than had been stated. However, Ive looked at 
the two payslips Miss Es provided for August 2018 and while one is very low it seems this 
wasnt a standard month as the total pay for that job over the previous five months was 
£4,961. The other payslip showed a net monthly income of £645. Those figures also fit with 
Miss Es email to Vanquis in August 2018 where she said her income was £645 and £847 a 
month. and on balance, I think theyre most likely correct. For that reason, even if Vanquis 
had asked for actual payslips Im not satisfied it would have changed its view. 
Ive seen Vanquis also made enquiries into Miss Es recent credit status which showed no 
recent defaults or missed payments that would cause concern, no recent cash loans and 
that she had an overall outstanding credit balance of less than £400. In addition to this Ive 
seen that Vanquis took into account the way Miss E had been managing her Vanquis credit 
card over recent months and in particular, that she was consistently making monthly 
payments that were either the full balance outstanding or were significantly higher than the 
minimum repayments required.  
I understand that Miss E feels Vanquis should have carried out a credit reference check 
which would have shown shed entered into a debt repayment plan in 2017 that only came to 
an end in April 2018 and that shed had a number of defaults previously. In this case it didnt 
carry out a credit reference check but it had obtained a credit status report which I consider 
was reasonable.
However even if it had carried out a credit reference check, its not clear that this would have 
changed its decision. Miss E did have a complex credit history but, as she has said, the debt 
repayment plan had come to an end in April 2018 and her more recent history didnt suggest 
any financial problems. A lender has to make its assessment on the information available at 
the time and it would be unfair for it to focus on past information without also taking into 
account the more recent history, which in Miss Es case suggested she was managing her 
finances adequately and wasnt in financial difficulty.
Miss E also explained very clearly whey she feels it should have asked for her recent bank 
and credit card statement which would have shown that she was spending increasing 
amounts on gambling sites. However, obtaining statement is one of the checks a lender may 
carry out but its not required to do so as long as it carries out adequate checks overall. For 
that reason, although Vanquis didnt ask for statements, I cant reasonably criticise it for not 
doing so. And because it didnt have the statements it wouldnt have been aware of the 
pattern of Miss Es spending and couldnt have taken it into account.
Miss E has explained that shortly after taking out this loan she got into financial difficulties.  I 
realise how difficult this must be and Ive every sympathy for the position that she now finds 
herself in. However, for the reasons given, I cant agree that this loan was unaffordable at 
the time it was offered so I wont be asking Vanquis to refund the interest or remove any 
adverse information about it from Miss Es credit file. I would hope however that Vanquis will 
respond positively and sympathetically to Miss Es financial problems to work out a suitable 
repayment plan.
With regard to the late payment marker, this was applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of Miss Es credit card account. For that reason, I cant reasonably say Vanquis 
made a mistake in recording this and because Vanquis hasnt made a mistake, I also cant 
reasonably direct it to remove the entry from Miss Es credit file.I realise this isnt the decision Miss E was hoping for but in the circumstances I wont be 
asking Vanquis to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 87 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman