DRN-2020984
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money took 13 days to 
refund an overpayment made to his credit card account. He says the delay negatively 
impacted his financial circumstances having lost his job due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr F would like 118 118 Money to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr F first complained to 118 118 Money in March 2020 as he thought hed been given 
incorrect information about how long it takes for a manual bank transfer to be reflected on 
his credit card account. He thought the payment would show the following working day.
On 30 April 2020 Mr F called 118 118 Money asking it to close his credit card account. The 
staff member he spoke to identified that Mr F had made an overpayment to the account and 
as a result his account was in credit by £20.18. The staff member ultimately took Mr Fs bank 
account details for the funds to be transferred back to Mr Fs bank account. 
Around two weeks later, having not received the refund, Mr F called 118 118 Money to 
chase the matter up. The refund was then made to Mr Fs account on 13 May 2020. But    Mr 
F says the delay caused him some financial problems as he had lost his job. So, he raised a 
complaint.
On 13 May 2020 Mr Fs bank account was credited with £20.18. And on the same day Mr F 
received a final response from 118 118 Money. But he says this didnt address the complaint 
hed raised the day before. So, he had to contact 118 118 Money again. 
118 118 Money says that the final response Mr F received on 13 May 2020 related to the 
earlier complaint raised in March 2020  to which it had eight weeks to respond to. In 
respect of that complaint it said that Mr F was never told that a bank transfer would be 
received the next day. Rather, he was told it could take 3-5 working days and that this 
information is confirmed on its website. In any event, 118 118 Money says that the transfer 
Mr F made on 10 March 2020 was credited to Mr Fs account by the close of business on  11 
March 2020.
Regarding the overpayment to the credit card, 118 118 Money accepts there was a delay in 
refunding the overpayment to Mr F. It says such refunds are usually done within 72 hours. 
But - on this occasion, it says it took longer to complete as the staff member who took the 
call was helping out from a different department - due to the unprecedented demand on its 
telephone systems and staff shortages as a result of the pandemic and was unfamiliar with 
the refund system. 
But it says the staff member didnt promise any timescales for the refund to be made and 
explained he was passing the refund request to a different department and that there may be 
a delay due to the circumstances. 118 118 Money issued its final response to Mr F on this complaint on 26 May 2020. In doing 
so, it apologised for the delay in refunding the overpayment and explained the confusion 
around the timing of the first final response letter. 
Unhappy with the response Mr F referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He found that Mr F had been 
given correct information around the timescales for receipt of manual bank transfers. And 
while he accepted the there had been a delay in refunding an overpayment to Mr F, given 
the circumstances of the pandemic and the impact this had on businesses at this time, he 
didnt think the delay was unreasonable. 
Mr F disagreed. He said he thought compensation was due as he suffered from mental 
health problems. The investigator asked Mr F to tell us more about his medical problems and 
Mr F explained having to chase financial matters up causes him to suffer from anxiety 
attacks. Our investigator didnt think this altered to outcome he had reached. He said that Mr 
F had been told there might be a delay and that the regulators guidance  issued as a result 
of the pandemic  advised consumers not to contact their banks for non-essential reasons 
and that given the wider circumstances the delay wasnt unreasonable.
As Mr F disagreed, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. I know    Mr 
F will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
From what Ive seen Mr F has three concerns about his account with 118 118 Money, so Ill 
deal with each in turn.
Mr F first contacted 118 118 Money in March 2020 about the timescales for receiving a 
manual bank transfer into his account. Having listened to the call, Im satisfied that Mr F was 
told that such transfers can take up to 3-5 working days. Ive also looked at                     118 
118 Moneys website and this also confirms the same timescales. So I dont think      118 
118 Money made a mistake with the information it gave Mr F. And, in any event, it seems 
that the transfer was credited to his account the next working day as outlined above.
118 118 Money issued its final response on this issue to Mr F on 13 May 2020. I can why 
receipt of this caused some confusion for Mr F  as by the time Mr F received this final 
response letter he had raised another complaint which this final response did not mention. 
But 118 118 Money issued its final response on the second complaint on 26 May 2020. But 
while the timing of the response to the first complaint confused matters with the second 
complaint, I dont think this was a mistake on 118 118 Moneys part.  
But I think the crux of Mr Fs complaint is around the delay in receiving a refund in relation to 
an overpayment Mr F made to his account. 118 118 Money has accepted there was a delay 
here  it usually makes such refunds within 72 hours. But it has explained that the delay was 
due to issues beyond its control as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic  it was receiving far 
more calls than normal and had staff shortages. So, given the wider circumstances, Ive 
thought very carefully about whether compensation is due to Mr F for the delay and as a 
result of having to contact 118 118 Money more than once to resolve this issue.I think its important to explain that the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown has had 
a huge impact on the service many businesses in the UK are able to provide  not just 
financial service providers. And as a result, the financial services regulator -                      
 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued a number of statements to financial 
businesses and their customers on the impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown. Having looked 
at the FCA statements, I think its clear that financial businesses were under pressure and 
were unlikely to be able to operate normal service levels. And the FCA also asked 
consumers to be patient if they had to wait longer than usual.
In Mr Fs case, 118 118 Money has accepted that there was a delay to its normal service 
levels due to pandemic lockdown and that Mr F was affected by this. But I can see that it has 
apologised for the delay and subsequently the payment was made 13 days later. 
Ive listened to the call Mr F made to 118 118 Money. And I think it was made clear to him 
that the refund request would be passed to another department to deal with. He was told the 
staff member handling the call was unfamilar with the refund system as was helping out with 
calls due to the volume of calls being received due to the pandemic. And Im satisfied he 
was told that the timescales for the refund couldnt be guaranteed due to staff shortages. 
I appreciate that Mr F felt he needed to chase up 118 118 Money when the refund still hadnt 
been received two weeks later. And I can understand that this might have caused Mr F some 
anxiety due to his medical and financial situations. But Ive not seen anything to show Mr F 
had made 118 118 Money aware of his medical and/or financial situations, so it had reason 
to think there was a need to prioritise his refund at this point, And I dont think Ive seen 
enough to say that the delay had a significant impact on Mr Fs financial situation.  But Ive 
seen that when Mr F did call again, his refund request (which was in a queue to be dealt 
with) was escalated to a manager and was actioned the same day. 
So overall, taking everything into account, I dont think 118 118 Money did anything 
significantly wrong which would make me think a compensation payment is due. So I wont 
be asking it to take any further action in respect of this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman