DRN-2607216
The complaint
Ms G, who is represented by Mr A, complains that 247 Money Group Limited refused to deal 
with all the faults in her car or let her reject it.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms G acquired a car costing £15,490 funded by a deposit of £500 and the 
balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was some five years old and had covered 46,000 
miles.
Shortly after taking delivery she noted blemishes in the bodywork. Ms G contacted the 
dealer and says she was advised to get an estimate. She did so and she says the dealer 
only offered to touch up the rust spots rather than carry out the necessary work which was 
estimated to be £1,581. The dealer said that the state of the bodywork reflected the age of 
the car and she would have been able to see it before purchase.
She also had issues with the tailgate not opening and the start stop system, but according to 
her complaint form submitted in September 2019 these were repaired by her local main 
dealer.
She complained to 247 about the above issue and also that there was excessive play on the 
track rods, wheel alignment issues and a lack of power. There was also a recall from the 
manufacturer. She explained that her local dealer had addressed the wheel alignment and 
work had been carried out on the EGR, but the lack of power problem was still unresolved. 
247 agreed to cover the cost of the bodywork repairs and Ms G confirmed she was happy 
with the outcome of her complaint.
Shortly before this Ms G brought her complaint to this service. The business confirmed the 
bodywork had been done and a steering rack had been fitted under warranty on 21 October 
2019. It also said that Ms G had said this had not resolved the problem. 247 contacted the 
repairing dealer which said the work had been done and it was unaware of any further 
issues. 
Ms G took the car to a garage on 20 December for a diagnostic, but she collected the car as 
the issues wasnt one the garage could deal with as it was electrical and needed to be dealt 
with by a main dealer.
247 said that Ms G was in arrears having only made five payments totalling £2,025.20 and it 
had deferred terminating the agreement, but it had done so in January 2020.
Our investigator thought the business had acted fairly in addressing Ms Gs concerns. Ms G 
didnt agree and said further work costing £582.38 was required. This included a new 
battery. She said she was waiting on 247 and it in turn said it was waiting for a copy of the 
diagnostic report which was due to be carried out in late January 2020. Our investigator 
endeavoured to arrange for the parties to engage and seek a resolution. 
Ms G said she had been left without a car since October 2019 and if the faults werent fixed 
she would reject it. 247 said it was looking to pursue collection of the car, but as a gesture of 
goodwill it would not pursue Ms G for the remainder of the account once the car was sold. 
Ms Gs partner told this service she wanted to reject the car, but also said that she would 
accept it being repaired if the price was reduced.
In the summer of 2020 an attempt was made to collect the car. The business explained that 
it had deferred termination and Ms G had unduly delayed matters for months. It asked for an 
up to date mileage to enable it to reach a reasonable compromise. Ms G told this service 
that on 16 July it had done 51,028 miles.
Our investigator issued an opinion recommending that the agreement be unwound and the 
deposit be returned with interest. Ms G didnt agree and said she disagreed with how the 
matter had been handled and said she would not accept rejection. She said she was entitled 
to the right of a price reduction. 
She also said she believed 247 had breached the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the way it 
had handled the termination. She said that no consideration had been given to reimbursing 
the repairs she had paid for of £336.60, plus loss of earnings and her ability to provide care 
for a disabled relative had been affected. She noted that over £4,000 had been spent on the 
car and it was still faulty.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
247 is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I thought it was important to stress that I was required to consider the state of the car at the 
point of sale. Was it clearly faulty at that point or was there an underlying inherent fault which 
was present? I also had to take into account durability, but against that it was also important 
to bear in mind the car was five years old and had covered 46,000 miles and so it would 
have been subject to a degree of wear and tear. Faults which arose as a result of wear and 
tear would not be the responsibility of 247. 
The main issue Ms G raised initially was the state of the bodywork. The dealer had said this 
was something which was reasonable for a car of this age and it was something Ms G had the opportunity to inspect before acquiring the car. In general, I said I would not consider it 
reasonable to uphold a complaint where this issue was obvious and had not been identified 
by the consumer. However, 247 and the dealer had agreed to cover the cost of respraying 
the bodywork as necessary at a cost of some £1,500 and I considered that to be more than 
fair.
The other major item was the wheel calibration and replacement steering rack which was 
remedied under warranty in October. I had not seen any evidence regarding the cause of 
this problem nor anything that showed that this was an inherent fault. I noted it was repaired 
more than six months after the point of sale. I could see the car passed its MOT in March 
2019 and in the course of that the steering would have been tested. I noted it was possible 
the issue was present at the point of sale, but since it was repaired under warranty, I didnt 
think I needed to defer a decision while exploring this issue yet further.
I noted the other work which was carried out as set down by Ms G in her timeline, for which I 
was grateful, and also the list of further work she said was required. I believed the key issue 
for her was the problem with the tailgate which appeared to require a new battery. The car 
was over five years old at the point that failed and I considered that to be a wear and tear 
item and not one which I could hold 247 responsible for. She had also mentioned other 
minor items and again I said I had seen nothing to indicate that these were faults present at 
the point of sale. 
Ms G had also raised concerns about the handling of the termination and the placing of a 
default notice on her credit file. However, I explained that 247 was entitled to respond to 
these complaints before this service considers them and so I didnt address these in my 
decision.
I noted that both parties say that the other has not responded to communications and while it 
is regrettable that this may not have helped the situation, I didnt feel it necessary to 
comment further. 
The business had made a goodwill offer and this had been endorsed by our investigator. 
This would mean that 247 would unwind the agreement, refund the deposit plus interest at 
8% simple and collect the car. It would also remove the adverse entry placed on Ms Gs 
credit file. I considered that to be more than fair.
Ms G suggested she should be offered a price reduction. The car has been repaired and to 
that extent a remedy has been offered by 247 and on top of that it has offered to accept 
rejection. If a price reduction was to be offered, I would have to take into account the fact the 
car has been repaired and the car has been usable for the last year or so apart from the 
tailgate issue which I believe to be due to wear and tear.
I noted that Ms G only drove the car for some 5,000 miles in the first year and although I 
didnt know her normal annual use this appeared to be relatively low. I was also aware that 
247 had an asset for which it has not received the expected payments which are legally due. 
As things stand, I said neither party was benefitting from this matter remaining unresolved. 
However, given Ms G had asked that we explore the option of a price reduction I believed it 
only fair that I set out what I consider to be fair and reasonable if that was the chosen 
resolution. Leaving to one side the offer made by 247 and taking into account all the issues 
which have been repaired I believed that a sum of £1,000 to be fair. 
However, I considered Ms G would be responsible for clearing her arrears. I also suggested 
that 247 remove any adverse entries it has made on her credit file. I recognised the 
agreement has been terminated and this alternative solution may not be appropriate and I said that I would consider representations by both parties and seek to conclude this matter 
without undue delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
247 accepted my provisional decision and agreed to which ever resolution Ms G preferred. 
Ms G didnt agree and Mr A set out her reasons. He said that within six months of acquisition 
247 had been notified of the faults and told that the payments should be frozen until 
satisfactory repairs were made. He said the onus was in 247 to show the car was fit for 
purpose. He said the legislation made it clear Ms G could reject it at any time as long as she 
stopped using it. 247 hadnt demonstrated the car had no faults at the point of sale.
He said 247 had not responded to emails and he said that Ms G had supplied three invoices 
from March and April 2019 showing work was needed on the wheels, steering track rod and 
EGR valve. He added that Ms G accepted the battery was subject to wear and rear, but it 
had failed relatively soon after the point of sale and an expensive car should be functional.
He said it was unfair on Ms G to have to accept rejection. She had sold her previous car 
privately rather than trade it in. Further work was needed caused in part by the paint repairs 
for which 247 was responsible since it paid for them. Ms G was also unhappy with the way 
her complaint was handled by 247 and this had not been addressed.
Ms G failed to respond to my question as to which form of redress she would prefer, but after 
prompting she said she wished to reject the car and have her deposit returned. She said she 
would only return the car after she had been compensated and all markers had been 
removed from her credit file which could take a month and she wanted a written confirmation 
from 247 that it would not contact her further or make any more demands for payment. 
I appreciate Ms G and Mr A remain unsatisfied, but I consider the offer made by 247 to be 
more than reasonable. The law on the rejection of goods is not quite as set out by Mr A and 
this may have influenced his and Ms Gs expectations. The car was relatively elderly and will 
have been subject to wear and tear. That means items can fail at any time. A battery may be 
satisfactory one day and not work the next. That doesnt mean it was faulty the previous day.
I have to be satisfied the faults were present at the point of sale and they were of such 
magnitude that rejection is merited. I remain of the view that the issues Ms G encountered 
were due to wear and tear and as far as the paintwork is concerned it was open to her to 
have inspected the car properly before buying it. However, 247 has offered to take the car 
back and I considered it appropriate that I endorse that offer. 
Mr A has mentioned the handling of the complaint by 247. Complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity and as such it is not within my remit to consider.
Ms G has made several demands which I do not consider reasonable. She continues to 
have the use of a car for which she has paid very little and its return should not be delayed. 
Nor do I consider it appropriate to direct 247 not to contact her. If she accepts my decision 
then I would expect both parties to move quickly to resolve this matter.
Putting things right
 Ms G should be allowed to reject the car.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct 247 Money Group Limited to:
allow Ms G to reject the car and to collect it.
write off the outstanding balance, 
refund Ms Gs deposit once the car has been collected plus annual simple interest at 
8% and 
remove any adverse entries it had placed on her credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman