DRN-3389760
The complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a personal possessions claim he made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr S was abroad on holiday. While he was away, he lost a bag containing 
amongst other things, a mobile phone, a keyring and some money. He obtained a police 
report for the loss and made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down the claim. It said based on the information Mr S had given it, his money 
and phone had been left unattended. AWP said that this was specifically excluded by the 
policy terms. AWP considered the police report Mr S had provided and noted that he hadnt 
reported the bag or keyring as lost to the police. So it also turned down his claim for these 
items.
Mr S was unhappy with AWPs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She considered that based on 
what Mr S had told AWP about how and when the loss had likely happened, it hadnt been 
unreasonable for AWP to conclude that the items had been left unattended. So she felt itd 
been fair for AWP to turn down the claim.
Mr S disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think it was fair for AWP to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, the relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked 
carefully at (amongst other considerations), the terms of the contract and the available 
evidence to decide whether AWP handled Mr S claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr S policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with AWP. The policy provides cover, under section H, for lost, damaged or stolen 
personal effects up to specified limits. And Mr S had added optional gadgets and valuables 
cover (section L) which provided cover for up to three lost, stolen or damaged valuables. 
However, both sections of the policy set out specific things AWP doesnt cover. Ive listed the 
applicable terms below:
What you are not covered for
Loss, theft or damage to money left unattended (including in a vehicle or the custody of 
scheduled transport service providers including airlines), unless in a locked safe, a locked 
hotel room, locked apartment, or locked holiday residence. Money is not insured if left in 
checked in baggage.
Loss, theft or damage not reported whilst travelling overseas to the police or other relevant 
authority and a written statement obtained in confirmation. This report must be made within 
24 hours of you becoming aware of the loss if in respect of specified items.
Loss, theft or damage to valuables left unattended (including in a vehicle or the custody of 
scheduled transport service providers including airlines), unless in a locked safe, or the 
locked hotel room, apartment or holiday residence you are using on your journey (private 
use only). Valuables are not insured if left in checked in baggage.
Ive looked closely at a translated copy of the police report Mr S obtained and sent to AWP. I 
can see that this only lists the mobile phone and Mr S money as missing. On this basis then, 
I dont think AWP acted unfairly when it concluded that there wasnt evidence to show Mr S 
had reported the loss of the keyring or bag to the police. And so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AWP to turn down this part of the claim.
In my view, AWP has clearly set out that it wont cover either money or valuable items if 
theyve been left unattended. AWP requires such items to be kept in a locked safe; locked 
hotel room; apartment or private use holiday residence. So in determining whether AWP 
handled Mr S claim for his mobile phone (which falls within AWPs definition of a valuable 
item) and his money fairly, Ive considered the claim form he sent to AWP. This sets out Mr 
S description of how he believed the loss occurred. He said:
We checked out of our hotel and had all our luggage sanitized and then loaded in to the car. 
We left the hotel and went to (a restaurant) to eat and when we landed and about to place 
an order I thought my bag with my sunglasses, money, phone and keyrings with suitcase 
keys would be in the car. As I went to check I could not locate it, I called the hotel we stayed 
at and they said nothing has been returned in yet, I then asked the (Concierge) if anything 
has been found and at this stage I realised it was lost.
Based on the information Mr S gave AWP at the time of the claim, it doesnt appear that his 
money or phone were in a locked hotel room; a locked safe; a private residence or 
apartment. Instead, it seems Mr S doesnt know when, where or how the loss happened. 
And in a follow-up email to AWP, Mr S said:
All my items were in a locked room as far as I am aware. As advised it was taken from our 
locked room to load into the car and Im not sure exactly at what stage and where and when 
it went missing. It could have been before or after could have lost it the night before I am not 
sure when exactly it went missing... I only realised the purse with money, was missing at the 
restaurant. And at that stage I also realised the phone was missing.
Whilst Mr S has referred to his items being in a locked room prior to being loaded into the 
car, I think his testimony suggests that he wasnt aware of when the items were lost or how 
the loss had likely taken place. So I dont think it was unfair for AWP to decide that on 
balance, Mr S money and phone werent kept in a locked safe or locked hotel room in line 
with the contract requirements. Neither does it appear that these items were with Mr S at the 
time of the loss. So I find it was reasonable for AWP to conclude that Mr S money and 
phone had most likely been left unattended at the time the loss happened. And that 
therefore, his claim for these items was specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Id add that exclusions for unattended items are common in most, if not all, travel insurance policies available on the market. And most, if not all, policies will require policyholders to 
provide proof of their loss by  amongst other things - providing a police report to show a 
loss happened or evidence of ownership. I understand Mr S found obtaining a police report a 
difficult experience and I sympathise with his situation. But this isnt something I can 
reasonably hold AWP responsible for.
Overall, based on the evidence, I think AWP acted fairly when it turned down Mr S claim. So 
Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman