DRN-3600272
The complaint
Miss M is seeking to recover approximately £24,000 from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest), which she lost from her account as a result of an authorised push payment 
scam.
NatWest says it is not liable for the loss because Miss M unwittingly authorised the 
payment herself  and they could not reasonably have intervened or done more to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into 
every detail of what happened here. But in summary, Miss M has been the victim of a 
scam. Between July 2017 and May 2018, she was tricked into sending eight payments 
totalling approximately £24,000 to someone she met on an online dating site. She had 
been talking to the individual for about three months when he told her he needed help 
and persuaded her to send him money. However, unbeknownst to Miss M, she had not 
been speaking to a potential romantic interest, she had been speaking with a scammer. 
The payments were as follows: 
21/07/2017 - £2,000
26/07/2017 - £2,230
16/08/2017 - £4,000
29/09/2017 - £4,500
8/11/2017 - £4,500
27/02/2018 - £2,000
25/05/2018 - £4,500 
The scam came to light in May 2018 when the person she was talking to cut off all 
contact with Miss M. Miss M accepts she made the payments via telephone banking but 
feels NatWest should have done more to protect her from the scam. In particular, she felt 
they should have questioned her on the nature and purpose of the payments, as she 
had no idea she could be falling victim to a scam. She had not been given a cover story, 
so she says she would have told them who she thought she was sending the money to. 
NatWest declined to refund Miss M as she authorised the payments and they did not 
consider them so unusual and out of character that they ought to have intervened or 
asked any further questions about the payments. They said they tried to retrieve the 
money from the receiving banks but that no funds remained in the beneficiary accounts. 
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so she came to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld. This 
was because our investigator was of the opinion that there was nothing so unusual about 
the payments that further action should have been triggered by NatWest. So, as Miss M 
authorised the transactions, they didnt recommend that they should refund Miss Ms 
losses.  
Miss M remained unhappy. She said she felt her complaint should be at least partially 
upheld. She said she this was because she: 
had complained online to the bank in July 2018 and never received any 
acknowledgement or response and so it is possible that at least some funds 
would have been remaining if they had contacted the receiving bank at this point, 
rather than when she had to bring her complaint again. She was not happy that 
they had not contacted her and ignored her instructions.  She also remained 
unhappy as the bank had repeatedly ignored her after the scam came to light and 
was reported, and when she raised her complaint again. Through this, the police 
knew of her scam so she does not understand how they didnt. 
had been informed by the police that another bank had refunded their client in full 
in a case that was almost identical to hers, but with losses of £40,000. She said 
the police and another organisation had informed her that the bank had breached 
its duty of care to her. 
felt the bank had not shown any compassion given that her mother passed away 
during the course of the scam, and her father had been diagnosed with a serious 
medical condition and has since passed away. 
felt that NatWest should have noticed that the activity was unusual as during the 
scam she went overdrawn, and this had only happened once before in the 1980s 
due to an error. They should have also noted that all of the transfers were going 
to different accounts. 
did have the funds to cover the payments, but only because she transferred 
funds in and they never asked her where the funds were coming from. 
understands that banks would challenge their consumers more now when 
making payments, so she does not understand why they didnt when she made 
these payments.
Our investigator carefully considered Miss Ms comments, but they remained of the 
opinion that NatWest did not need to refund the transactions. They explained: 
NatWest had no evidence of being notified of the disputed transactions in July 
2018  but it was highly unlikely that any funds would have remained even at the 
earlier date as fraudsters typically withdraw funds immediately to prevent losing 
access to them; 
They had considered the merits of her case, and couldnt comment on banks 
decisions from other cases; 
Whilst they were very sorry to hear of the circumstances Miss M was in at the 
time of the scam and afterwards, as NatWest were not aware of the 
circumstances our investigator didnt think it impacted the outcome of the 
complaint; 
When deciding what is fair and reasonable in a complaint, we have to consider 
the relevant rules, regulations, guidance and best practice that would have been 
in place at the time, rather than what is in place now; 
They remained of the opinion that the key question was whether NatWest ought 
to have intervened further when she was making the payments  and they 
remained of the opinion that NatWest had acted correctly in the circumstances. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe Miss M was the victim of a callous and cruel 
scam. I was so sad to read of what she was put through, particularly with her bereavement 
of her mother whilst the scam was ongoing, and the loss of her father since this time. I can 
tell from reviewing the evidence and the conversations Miss M has had with our service that 
this matter has had a profound impact on her. So, I would like to start by offering my 
sympathies for what she has been put through. 
I would also like to explain that I am aware that I have summarised this complaint briefly, in 
less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. I intend no discourtesy by doing 
so. Instead, I have focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If there is 
something I have not mentioned, it isnt because I have ignored it  I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every single argument or point to be able to reach what I consider 
to be the fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this  it simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
My role here is to assess NatWests actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold them liable for 
Miss Ms loss. So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss M, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
NatWest should reimburse her account with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammer. I will explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Miss M 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the 
relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss M is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, NatWest should have been on the look-out 
for unusual and out of character transactions. But I agree with the investigator - Im not 
satisfied that the activity that took place on Miss Ms account during the scam was 
sufficiently unusual and out of character to have flagged up on NatWests fraud monitoring 
systems, or put NatWest on notice that she was at risk of fraud. Ill explain why.
Whilst I appreciate the value of the payments are not insignificant here, I dont consider that 
the value of any individual payment is in itself enough to be an indicator of fraud, warranting further action from NatWest. And the payments were sufficiently spaced apart that I dont 
think NatWest ought reasonably to have noticed the cumulative total of the payments as 
suspicious, as I might expect them to if there were rapidly escalating payments within a 
matter of hours or days. It is notable that Miss M did not go into her overdraft and maintained 
a positive balance throughout the scam payments. I appreciate Miss M did go overdrawn 
some days after a scam payment and she has said this was highly unusual for her. But it is 
not so unusual in and of itself that it should have given NatWest cause for concern  
customers go into their overdrafts all the time without being victims of scams. Further, as the 
total racked up the payments were going to existing beneficiaries and so they would not 
have appeared unusual. And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say 
there was anything about these payments that wouldve stood out and given NatWest a 
reasonable basis for suspecting that Miss M was being defrauded or that she was at risk of 
financial harm. For this reason, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that NatWest ought 
reasonably to have stopped these payments or intervened in any way  and so by extension 
it would not be fair and reasonable to hold NatWest liable for Miss Ms loss  the fault here 
lies with the fraudster themselves. 
Ive also considered what attempts NatWest made to recover the funds from the scammers. I 
can tell that Miss M feels strongly that NatWest missed an opportunity to recover her funds 
in July 2018 when she says she first complained to them and received no response. For 
completeness, I asked our investigator to get the details of all of the receiving banks from 
NatWest, and asked them to contact each one and find out if funds remained in the relevant 
accounts as of July 2018. Unfortunately, as our investigator suggested was likely to be the 
case, the scammer had quickly removed the fraudulent funds from the accounts and so no 
funds remained in any of the recipient accounts. And so when NatWest later logged her 
fraud claim and contacted beneficiary banks, no funds remained at this point either. So I 
dont think NatWest could have done anything further in this regard. 
I appreciate Miss M feels let down by NatWest. Afterall, her account with them was used to 
send payments to a callous fraudster. And I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear 
of the situation Miss M found herself in, but I do not think her loss was caused by any 
specific failing on behalf of NatWest and so I cannot fairly ask them to refund her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman