DRN-1730571
The complaint
Mr N complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) made a series of administrative errors in 
relation to his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr Ns vehicle was hit by a third party while unattended outside of his 
home. He registered the claim with his insurer (Covea) and believes its claims handlers 
made mistakes which affected his renewal premium. 
Mr N said Covea had recorded the wrong vehicle registration number in their files, which led 
to them incorrectly classifying Mr N as being at fault for the accident in question. He said this 
affected his no claims bonus (NCB) entitlement at his next renewal, leading to an increased 
price. 
Mr N also complained about Coveas handling of his renewal. After he accepted the policy 
renewal, there was a delay in receiving his paperwork. And when they arrived, the letters 
werent accurately dated, one set of letters was duplicated, and he was sent documentation 
with another customers details. 
Covea looked at both complaints and upheld them in part. It said it had always logged the 
accident claim as non-fault. And that it had waived Mr Ns excess and his NCB entitlement 
hadnt been affected, so it didnt agree any mistakes were made. 
But it agreed that some administrative errors could have caused Mr N to feel it had made 
mistakes  such as saying an excess was payable in one of its letters and not replying to 
one of his emails. It apologised for these issues, and offered Mr N £50 in compensation. 
In relation to the renewal issues, Covea agreed with Mr N that its service had fallen short of 
what it wouldve wanted, so it offered him an additional £75. 
Mr N didnt agree and said Covea should pay him significantly more compensation. He said 
this was based on the level of inconvenience hed been caused overall and the time he 
spent trying to get things resolved. He also highlighted some new issues relating to his most 
recent renewal in 2020.   
An investigator looked at the complaint and thought Covea had dealt with the complaint 
fairly. They didnt think Covea had made mistakes with how it recorded the collision claim, or 
Mr Ns NCB entitlement. And felt the compensation offered to put this right was reasonable 
for the administrative errors made in relation to the renewal. 
The investigator also said Mr N would need to raise the new issues hed had with the 
business before were able to consider it.
Mr N didnt agree and still felt the compensation wasnt enough. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Theres no doubt Mr N has had to deal with a number of Covea's administrative errors during 
the period of insurance. I can understand how he would've been worried that these mistakes 
could have impacted his premiums and his NCB entitlement. Hes also been inconvenienced 
through having to complain more than once. Ive considered his complaint points in turn.
Claim issues
Mr N believed the premium increase he saw at renewal in 2019 was due to errors made by 
Covea. From the information Covea has provided, it seems that his claim was always 
recorded as a non-fault. No excess was charged, and his NCB entitlement wasnt affected 
either. So it seems no mistake was made in relation to how this was recorded. And as a 
result it seems any increase in price at renewal was related to other factors.
I can see our investigator has already explained that insurance policy premiums can be 
affected by claims, whether fault or non-fault. So its possible this could have been the cause 
of the renewal price difference.
Covea said it accidently mentioned charging Mr N an excess within a letter. It also made an 
error with his registration number. Whilst I can see why this caused Mr N some concern and 
made him feel he had cause for complaint, it seems to me the impact on him was minimal. 
So I think Coveas offer of £50 alongside an apology is a fair way of putting these mistakes 
right and compensating him for the inconvenience. 
Renewal issues
Covea has admitted it has made administrative errors. I understand how this would have 
caused Mr N concern, given he was already unhappy with the service received. 
Mr N was expecting to receive his renewal paperwork around seven to ten working days 
after accepting his renewal quote  but it took much longer. Covea has confirmed that it did 
insure Mr N from the renewal date, so aside from the worry and inconvenience caused, I'm 
pleased to see Mr N didn't lose out in terms of the cover he'd paid for. 
The inconvenience Mr N experienced was mostly to do with having to chase Covea for his 
documents and receiving more than one set. One of these was for a different customer. I 
think its reasonable Covea compensates Mr N for its mistakes, given the number of 
problems he's faced. 
Mr N told our investigator he felt Covea should be paying significantly more than £75. Hed 
calculated the time hed spent and felt Covea should be paying an hourly rate. 
As the investigator explained, this isnt how we calculate awards of compensation. And while 
I can understand his frustration, Im satisfied £75 fairly reflects the inconvenience hes 
suffered in having to contact Covea several times about its mistakes  taking into account he 
was insured throughout. 
My final decision
Covea has made an offer to pay £125. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. My decision is that Covea Insurance Plc should pay Mr N £125  if it 
hasn't done so already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman