DRN-1529507
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc declined his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W booked a hotel stay overseas and paid with his Santander credit card.
He says the hotel didn't provide a satisfactory service. He has a long and detailed list of 
issues with the hotel, which I won't attempt to repeat here. But, for example, the 
hotel allowed dogs in eating areas, the pool area and the rooms. The rooms were dirty. And 
the hotel catered for weddings, which meant dining facilities had to be shared with large 
wedding parties.   
Mr W made a claim to Santander under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974. He wants 
them to refund the credit card payment he made to the hotel on the basis that the goods or 
service he received was not as described by the supplier. 
Santander declined that claim, saying that there was no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation on the part of the supplier (the hotel). 
Mr W complained to Santander, but they maintained they were right to decline the claim. So, 
Mr W complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Santander had done 
anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry Mr W had an unsatisfactory experience at the hotel. I understand he was 
celebrating a special occasion and I can understand that he was frustrated when things 
didn't meet with his expectations.
I have to consider Santander's actions - and whether it was fair and reasonable for them to 
decline Mr W's Section 75 claim.
As I understand it, in the circumstances of this case, Santander would be obliged to provide 
a refund if it were shown that the hotel had either misrepresented what was on offer or had 
breached the contract they had with Mr W.
Mr W got the accommodation he'd booked. When he complained, the hotel cleaned the 
room and repaired some furniture. I can see why Mr W was annoyed that had to happen. And I know he thought the issues weren't fully resolved. But that does seem to me to be a 
service issue - and one the hotel tried to resolve - rather than a breach of contract. 
The hotel's website was clear that the hotel was pet friendly and that it catered for weddings. 
So I don't think Mr W can legitimately say there was any misrepresentation about that. 
And they were very clear about some other issues Mr W has raised - for example, their 
website states they have no elevator, which explains why Mr W had to walk up and down 
stairs to get bathing towels.
Mr W appears to have stayed at the hotel for the duration of the booked visit, so again, it's 
difficult to conclude that there was a breach of the contract to provide (acceptable) 
accommodation.   
So, in summary, I'm satisfied on balance that Santander aren't being unreasonable or unfair 
when they say there's no evidence the hotel breached the contract or misrepresented the 
goods / services on offer. And that being the case, they're entitled to decline Mr W's Section 
75 claim.     
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr W's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman