DRN-2527954
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Ikano Bank AB (publ) wont amend his credit file following an issue he had
with his direct debit in October 2019.
What happened
On 14 October 2019 Ikano attempted to collect a direct debit payment of £40.77 from Mr Cs
bank account. However, Mr C hadnt transferred enough money into his bank account so the
direct debit was rejected.
Ikano contacted Mr C to notify him of his arrears. Mr C said the payment had been taken and
provided his bank statement which he thought proved this. Ikano explained the bank
statement showed the money being taken and then rejected on the same day. Mr C didnt
agree and on 16 January 2020 Ikano issued their final response rejecting his complaint.
Mr C paid his arrears in January 2020 but was unhappy he had late markers on his credit file
and said this was impacting his mortgage application. So he brought his complaint to our
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He explained Mr C genuinely believed hed made the
payment, he was trying to prove this to Ikano and was waiting for them to investigate before
he eventually settled the missed payment. He thought the markers should be removed as
these didnt reflect Mr Cs ability to pay.
Ikano didnt agree. They said they didnt reject the complaint on the basis of his ability to
pay. They said Mr C admitted he forgot to transfer money into his bank account to cover the
payment, so this wasnt their error. They said they have a responsibility to accurately report
information on Mr Cs credit file so wouldnt be amending it.
Because Ikano didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me. 
On 19 November I issued a provisional decision and Ive included an extract of this below. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached a different
conclusion to our investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C but my
provisional decision sets out my findings.
Having looked at Mr Cs statements with Ikano, I can see that his direct debit was attempted
on 14 October 2019 but this bounced and as a result Mr C still owed a payment for October.
Ikanos system notes show they tried to contact Mr C by phone and a text message to notify
him of the arrears.
On 19 October 2019 Mr C spoke with Ikano and explained hed forgotten to move money
into his bank account to cover the payment. So I think its clear that Mr C knew there may
have been an issue here, and this was due to his own error rather than Ikanos. However, Mr
C said the payment had been debited from his account.
Mr C sent Ikano a bank statement at their request. Once theyd reviewed this, they explained
although a debit for £40.77 had left his account, this had returned as a credit on the same
day. So this showed the payment had bounced. Mr C still disputed this. Ikano also explained
they wouldnt attempt the payment again and as Mr C confirmed he hadnt made a manual
payment this also supported Ikanos position that the payment was still outstanding.
Having looked at the bank statement Mr C provide to Ikano, I can see the debit left the
account on 14 October 2019. There are two entries underneath this followed by the credit of
£40.77 on the same day. Given that the transactions are relatively close together I think its
clear to see that the payment returned. I note both the debit and the credit refer to Ikano
bank so I think it was clear what the transactions related to. In addition to this, the debit and
credit was for the same amount which Mr C would be familiar with as hed made payments
since 2016.
Whilst I think it was clear the payment returned, I also think Mr C genuinely believed hed
made the payment. He was so adamant about this, he had previously made his payments
and provided Ikano with evidence he thought supported his case. Since bringing the
complaint to our service Mr C has said he mis-read his statement and I dont doubt thats
what happened. But Ikano did look at his statement and explained their position to Mr C. In
addition to this, the the payment wasnt made was because Mr C had forgotten to transfer
enough money into his bank account. So I dont think its fair to hold Ikano responsible for
this.
Our investigator felt the credit file markers should be removed because Mr C didnt make a
payment until January 2020 as he was waiting for Ikano to investigate. Although Ikano didnt
issue a final response until 3 January 2020, Mr C was aware of their position on 13
November 2019. And for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Ikano have made an
error so it follows I wont be asking them to remove the markers on Mr Cs credit file.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C. I do acknowledge hes said the
adverse information on his credit file is impacting his life and the ability to apply for the
mortgage that he wanted. I think its unfortunate Mr C didnt credit his account in time and
then mis-read his statement, however I dont think its fair to hold Ikano responsible as they
havent made any errors.
Neither Ikano or Mr C responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent seen any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this 
complaint, my final decision is the same for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Ikano Bank AB (publ) do not need to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman