DRN-2869470
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr J complain that Wingate Wealth Management Ltd failed to inform them 
properly about charges for its service and required them to pay an invoice even though their 
concerns about the recommendations made had not been addressed. 
What happened
Mrs C and Mr J contacted Wingate for advice on their financial arrangements, in particular 
their pensions. The initial contact was in late 2017, after which Wingate started gathering 
information. 
There was a meeting in September 2018, the notes of which show Wingate would contact 
Mrs C and Mr J soon after to confirm next steps, the client agreement, fee menu etc. On 2 
October 2018 Wingate sent an email with a fact find document for Mrs C and Mr J to check, 
together with its client agreement and service fee and schedule.
On 4 December 2018 Wingate emailed again, referring to its client agreement and fee menu 
and asking Mrs C and Mr J to confirm their consent to move to the next stage of the process.
Mr J replied confirming they wished to proceed. He said they couldnt find the consent form 
so Wingate sent the documents again, saying The Service Fee and Schedule just needs 
you to both sign to Enlightenment
Mrs C and Mr J signed and returned the client agreement consent form. On 13 December 
2018 Wingate sent them a client engagement letter. Wingate confirmed there would be a fee 
of  £600 for the next stage (the enlightenment service) and said 
once it had provided the Enlightenment Report, they would discuss the next stage; 
if Mrs C and Mr J instructed it to proceed to that, it would issue further terms of 
engagement detailing the costs; 
a summary of the service and costs was provided in the Fee Schedule which they 
had already signed.
At a meeting on 9 April 2019 Mrs C and Mr J signed an updated consent, confirming they 
wished to proceed to next stage. In a letter sent by email shortly after, Wingate confirmed 
receipt of the signed consent. 
This letter set out the next steps (the Navigation stage), and said there would be a charge 
of £14,046  payable irrespective of whether you choose to implement our recommendation 
or not . The letter confirmed Mrs C and Mr Js preference to settle fees by deduction from 
pension plans and said Wingate would try and arrange this but if it wasnt possible, the fees 
would be payable
Wingate sent its report on 1 May 2019. There followed some email correspondence filling in 
some gaps in the information provided about Mrs Cs pensions. An invoice was then sent for 
£13,018 (slightly less than the figure quoted after confirmation of the investments involved).
Wingate asked Mrs C and Mr J if they could arrange a date for a follow up meeting. This was 
booked for June 2019 but Mrs C and Mr J were unable to attend and asked for it to be 
rearranged. Several further proposed dates were rearranged before the meeting eventually 
took place in October.
Mr J then asked for a copy of the engagement letter (he attached a copy of what they had 
signed in December 2018 and asked if there was another one). Wingate explained that it 
didnt ask for an engagement letter to be signed  the documents it used were:
the client agreement (which set out its general terms) and the Fee and Service menu 
to be signed;
a client engagement letter which confirmed the specific fees but didnt need to be 
signed.
Mr J then asked for a copy of the fee schedule. After receiving that, he said they didnt have 
a record of ever having signed it. Mrs C and Mr J then complained about the fees and said 
they had never agreed to pay these  the only fee theyd agreed to was the charge of £600 
for the first stage. They had a number of queries about the contents of the report but said 
before they went any further, they wanted Wingate to answer their concerns about the fee.
In response to the complaint, Wingate said it had provided details of the fees and was 
entitled to be paid, but would not pursue this while the complaint was being referred to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Although he felt Wingate hadnt 
always followed best practice and could have been clearer about the charges, he said
Wingate had provided details of its fee structure and confirmed the charges in April 
2019;
Mrs C and Mr J had the chance to raise any concerns then, before the further work 
was done; 
they had signed to confirm their agreement to the terms and conditions; and
while they had the right to raise queries about the recommendations, Wingate was 
entitled to be paid for the work done. 
Mrs C and Mr J have requested an ombudsmans decision. They have made a number of 
points in support of their complaint, including:
they made it clear from the outset that they didnt have spare cash to pay fees and 
proceeded on the understanding that after paying the initial £600, any further fees 
would only be payable if they transferred funds from their existing pensions into funds 
recommended by Wingate;
if that happened, any fees would be taken from the pension funds;
Wingate was now seeking to rely on a schedule of fees sent in the email of 13 
December 2018 to suggest they had agreed to the calculation of around £14,000 for 
the later work;
they didnt explicitly agree to that - it wasnt legally binding and was unclear and at 
odds with what the adviser had told them;
it wasnt until after the meeting in October 2019 that they became aware the fees 
were payable;
they had a lot of issues with the recommendations, which appeared no better than 
their current pension arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firms should provide clear information about their charging structure, either in cash terms or with examples in cash terms to illustrate how the charging structure works in practice. If a 
charge is expressed as a percentage, a firm doesnt need to disclose the total charge until 
after the transaction has been completed, provided it then does so promptly.
The Client agreement and Service and Fee Schedule documents set out the terms on which 
Wingate provide services and the fees it will charge. So this is the starting point for 
considering the complaint, as these documents set out the terms of the agreement between 
the parties. Work is done in different stages, including Stage 2 (Enlightenment) and Stage 3 
(Navigation). The fee schedule confirms that the fee for stage 2 is £600, while the fee for 
stage 3 is based on the value of the assets being advised on. It includes a table showing the 
percentages on different values, as follows:
The first £500,000 1.50%
From £500,001 to £1,000,000 1.00%
Over £1,000,000 0.80%
Below this are some examples with figures, showing how the fees work in practice.
The documents were sent to Mrs C and Mr J in December 2018. They then signed the 
consent form, which said 
This document should be read in conjunction with our Service and Fee Schedule document 
and/or our Terms of Engagement letter. And By signing the declaration below you are 
confirming that you have read and understood the terms of this Client Agreement and are 
consenting to these terms
So Mrs C and Mr J had agreed to instruct Wingate on the basis of its fee arrangements, and 
signed to confirm they had read and understood the terms. If they didnt understand the way 
in which they would be charged or didnt wish to proceed in accordance with the fee 
structure, they had an opportunity to raise this before any of the work for which they were 
charged was carried out. They didnt raise any issues and signed to confirm their consent.
I appreciate at that stage they were not given details of the actual fees to be paid for stage 3, 
but that wouldnt have been known until later. What they had been given was a document 
setting out clearly how the fees would be structured.
Following the meeting in April 2019 Wingate sent a letter confirming receipt of the signed 
consent (which had been signed at the meeting). This letter set out the next steps, which 
were to proceed to stage 3 (Navigation stage). And it said the charge for this would be 
£14,046. I agree with our investigator it would have been better if that figure had been 
confirmed in the form before it was signed, rather than afterwards. But it seems the meeting 
was rather rushed; Mrs C arrived a little late and Mr J had to leave early. In any event, the 
fee was confirmed in the letter. And the letter said the fee would be payable irrespective of 
whether you choose to implement our recommendation or not. The letter also confirmed 
Mrs C and Mr Js preference was to settle fees by deduction from their pension plans and 
said Wingate would try and arrange this but if it wasnt possible, the fees would still be 
payable.
So again, Mrs C and Mr J were told at this point what fee would be charged and had the 
opportunity to question the fees and decide whether they wanted to proceed with next stage. 
They could have paused things at that point. 
Mr J has confirmed they didnt read that document at the time. He has said the one sided 
sending of an email attachment without their response doesnt amount to an agreement to 
the fee, and to be criticised for not reading the email would be unjust. But I think the issue here is that they were told in advance what they would he charged. They were aware from 
December 2018 what the fee structure was and how the charges would be calculated; and 
they were told how much the fees would be before proceeding with each stage. They had 
also signed to confirm they had read and understood the terms. 
The letter sent in April said no further action was required from them if they agreed to the 
terms laid out in the letter. But if they didnt agree with those terms, they could have said so 
before Wingate proceeded with the work. They raised various concerns from October 2019  
this could have happened in April. Mrs C and Mr J have said they werent aware of the fees 
until October 2019, but Im satisfied they were told about them in April. They didnt raise any 
concerns then and Wingate proceeded with the work, producing the report a few weeks later 
and then sending an invoice. 
Looking at the sequence of events and the documents provided to Mrs C and Mr J, Im 
satisfied they were given clear information about the charging structure. They confirmed they 
had read and understood the terms and conditions and that they wanted Wingate to go 
ahead. They could have withdrawn at any point and would not then have incurred the same 
level of charges, but chose not to.
In the circumstances I think its fair for Wingate to be paid for the work carried out. Wingate 
confirmed it was willing to discuss any concerns over the recommendations in the report,. It 
may be that if, after further discussions, Mrs C and Mr J do proceed with transferring their 
investments the fee can be deducted from the investments. But thats something they would 
need to discuss with Wingate. In the absence of any agreement, the fee will remain payable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman