DRN-4335316
The complaint
Mrs C complains that MBNA Limited reduced the credit limit on her credit card without any 
warning, leaving her financially disadvantaged. And she complains that MBNA encouraged 
her to make an application for an increase, which it then declined to the detriment of her 
credit rating. Mrs C would like her credit limit restored and compensation for her distress.
What happened
In February 2023 Mrs C was surprised to receive a message from MBNA informing her it 
had lowered the credit limit on her credit card from £15,750 to £10,900, to help prevent my 
balance increasing too much. Mrs C said she wasnt aware of any irregularities and MBNAs 
agent couldnt explain, so she complained. She said the agent suggested that a complaint 
might mean MBNA not raising her limit in future and offered £35 to withdraw the complaint.
Mrs C said MBNAs decision meant she had no reserve on either of her credit cards. MBNA 
called Mrs C and said the new credit limit was due to her being in persistent debt and that 
MBNA had informed her about this on many occasions. Mrs C said this was incorrect and 
was unfamiliar with the term. She said she had always made repayments to MBNA. 
Mrs C said MBNAs agent recommended she request an increased credit limit, but this was 
unsuccessful, and she thought this would involve a negative credit report. MBNA declined 
Mrs Cs complaint in March 2023, saying Your credit limit has been reduced because your 
account is in persistent debt. We wrote to you on 15 February to advise you of this decision 
and explain why. Mrs C was dissatisfied with this and referred her complaint to our service. 
Mrs C said she had an incident flagged on her credit report for a missed utility payment, and 
her credit limit was reduced, but was told she could apply for an increase in three months. 
And in October 2022, MBNA told her she had exceeded her credit limit. Mrs C said she dealt 
with these issues to MBNAs satisfaction as confirmed in a call in November 2022. Mrs C 
said she increased her monthly repayments and her balance decreased from £14,580 in 
January 2022, to £10,193 in January 2023, with minimal spend on the card. She said her 
credit score had gone up by 8 points in February 2023, near to an excellent score. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He said MBNA could reduce her credit limit under the terms of the agreement and explained 
this with reference to her being in persistent debt. He said MBNA wasnt required to provide 
more detailed information as this is commercially sensitive. He said lenders must lend 
responsibly, in line with their own risk appetite and we cant set their lending criteria for them.
Mrs C disagreed and was unhappy MBNA had labelled her as being in persistent debt and 
that she was never informed of this prior to calling MBNA on 28 February 2023. She 
provided statements and a spreadsheet of payments to the account.
Another investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint and referred to her credit card statements 
from January 2018 and MBNA information to check whether or not she should have been 
considered to have been in persistent debt 18 months prior to MBNA stating this. 
The investigator provided the definition of persistent debt from the National Debtline:
If you have received a letter from your lender saying that you are in persistent debt, this 
means that in the last 18 months the amount you have paid in interest, fees and charges is 
bigger than the amount of borrowed money that you have paid back. This is more likely to 
happen if you are only paying the minimum payment, or not much more than this.
It can be worrying when a lender contacts you out of the blue, but being in persistent debt 
doesnt mean that you have done anything wrong. Since September 2018, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)has told lenders that they have to contact customers who are in 
persistent debt. The rules only applied to credit cards at first, but now apply to store cards 
and catalogues too. Some lenders may have chosen to send persistent debt letters before 
this, but could only start doing this in March 2018.
The investigator said that paying the minimum amount of the debt meant most of this would 
be towards interest and not the balance owed. And after 18 months the account will be 
highlighted as being in persistent debt as this will generally mean the customer wont be able 
to repay the balance in full within a reasonable amount of time. He said lenders explain this 
to customers and confirm what amount should be paid each month to ensure they come out 
of persistent debt as soon as possible. This amount is called a recommended payment 
amount (RPA)  which is generally higher than the minimum amount shown on each 
months statement.
The investigator said MBNA wrote to Mrs C in August 2019 about her being in persistent 
debt and followed this with many other letters and statements. He set out the dates of these 
in his letter to Mrs C of 10 August 2023 and so I wont repeat that here. He also detailed a 
payment holiday requested by Mrs C that was extended and the amendment of her direct 
debit following three missed RPAs in 12 months when MBNA put a block on the card. Mrs C 
disputed that she had missed a payment, but the investigator quoted from MBNAs letter 
detailing a missed payment and stating it would stop her card if she missed the next one.
To remove the block that MBNA applied, Mrs C had called MBNA and confirmed she had 
received notification of being in persistent debt. The investigator spoke to Mrs C, and said 
she agreed that she understood that persistent debt was mentioned on her statements, but 
she hadnt noticed this sooner and had ignored some of MBNAs letters. 
The investigator reviewed the spreadsheet Mrs C provided and produced a table to show the 
interest charged and capital paid by each payment made to the account. He concluded that 
her account was in persistent debt. And that MBNA treated Mrs C fairly in identifying and 
supporting her to make increased payments under the persistent debt process.
Mrs C remained in disagreement and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. She 
said no mention had been made of her later repayments where she had reduced her 
balance. Contrary to the investigators view, Mrs C said no justification was provided about 
her being in persistent debt or an RPA and she didnt recall requesting a payment holiday.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says MBNAs decision to reduce her credit limit holds a significant negative impact on 
her finances as it has removed her credit facility. And by recommending her to make another 
request for credit and subsequently rejecting it, the bank has left her with a negative mark on 
her credit report.    Mrs C had a credit card with a limit of £15,750 which was reduced to £10,900 in February 
2023. MBNA told Mrs C this was because she was in persistent debt. She was told she 
needed to wait 12 months before applying for an increase, as MBNA would likely decline.
Mrs C has rebutted almost every point MBNA and the investigator have made about her 
account. In particular, she disputes that she was in persistent debt, was told about this or 
that she missed any payments or requested a payment holiday. The heart of the complaint I 
take to be whether or not it was reasonable for MBNA to consider Mrs C to be in persistent 
debt, and whether it informed her of this so that an alternative course of action was available 
to her. From examining MBNAs records there is plenty of evidence that it considered Mrs C 
to be in persistent debt, and that she was informed of this by MBNA on many occasions. 
It is worth noting that the identification and handling of persistent debt by lenders means that 
measures required by a lenders process will still be applied even where more than the 
minimum payments have been made. Over the last few years lenders have been 
increasingly required by regulators to prevent customers from taking on unaffordable debt. It 
follows that lenders are required to review their customers borrowing and offer some 
protection. 
MBNAs review and approach to Mrs Cs account was to see how much was being paid 
towards the balance, against how long it would take to clear the balance, and whether this 
can be achieved within a reasonable amount of time.
The account evidence from Mrs C and MBNA shows that while Mrs C made additional 
payments in some months, she was mainly paying the minimum amount, leading MBNA to 
conclude, she was paying more in interest and charges then the actual balance owed. This 
means she wasnt able to pay the balance in a reasonable time if her payments continued at 
that rate. Even if Mrs C had made all of the RPA payments, MBNA estimated it would take 
four years for her to clear her debt, but at least the RPA offered the prospect of debt 
clearance, as opposed to the uncertainty of the minimum repayments. 
MBNAs persistent debt process is intended to ensure that customers arent left paying 
mostly interest on the balance owed (meaning MBNA makes money every month) for a very 
long period of time and would mean that Mrs C would likely struggle to clear or reduce the 
balance for several years. 
And so though I sympathise with the points about her payments that Mrs C has made, I think 
it was correct for MBNA to consider her to be in persistent debt. I think MBNA has acted 
appropriately in restricting Mrs Cs debt and I dont agree that it has made her financial 
situation worse. Im also satisfied MBNA acted in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the account, when reducing Mrs Cs credit limit and has treated her fairly. I agree with the 
investigator that the actions taken by MBNA are from a position of good conduct towards 
Mrs C and similarly affected customers. 
Mrs C said MBNA hadnt told her it considered that she has been in persistent debt for a 
while. Ive seen letters from MBNA to Mrs Cs home address. These state, As youve been 
in persistent debt for quite a long time, weve been giving you a RPA in your statements to 
help you repay this balance in around four years.
I think the record of MBNAs correspondence and account statements to Mrs C show that 
she was fully informed that her account was considered to be in persistent debt from 2017 
onwards. And she was informed that she needed to take action about this. Mrs C has 
reduced the balance, but not by enough for MBNA to remove the persistent debt status from 
her account, as demonstrated by its letters about this.I can understand that Mrs C had other concerns during this period, and she disputes that 
she missed payments, but she didnt do anything about the RPA perhaps because it was just 
a recommended amount. I think Mrs C needed to follow the RPA in order for her to 
demonstrate that she understood the concern about her debt status and to try to remove 
herself from being considered in this way. 
In my view, MBNA has acted fairly and as a responsible lender to inform Mrs C that if she 
continued to only make minimum payments, she wouldnt be able to pay off the card balance 
in a reasonable amount of time. By reducing the total amount of credit available MBNA acted 
in line with the persistent debt process as per the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs C said, MBNA recommended I make a new request and then declined it, which means 
that all new lenders will consider this when deciding whether to lend. And MBNA made it 
clear to me on 20 February (after I refused to accept £35 in exchange for not making a 
complaint) that if I was going ahead with a complaint, it would likely never reinstate my 
available credit again.
MBNA said Mrs C hasnt made any new credit card applications so there havent been any 
declines. It holds a record of her call on 27 February 2023 when she requested an increased 
credit limit, which it declined. From the record, Mrs C agreed to a credit search, and this will 
have been recorded as only a search. MBNA doesnt have a record of any calls with Mrs C 
on 20 February 2023 and so I havent found anything to suggest that it tried to prevent Mrs 
Cs complaint.
It is open to Mrs C to bring a separate complaint to MBNA about the payment holiday that 
she disputes and the implications of this for her credit rating.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman