DRN-2738074
The complaint
Miss D and Miss J complain that Soteria Insurance Limited has unfairly declined their claim 
for storm damage to their home under their home insurance policy.
  What happened
Miss D and Miss J contacted Soteria about storm damage to their roof in December 2019. 
Soteria sent a surveyor to inspect the damage and he reported that damage to the roof and 
the ceiling was caused by the natural breakdown of materials and the claim wouldnt be paid.
Soteria said that Miss D made another claim for damage to their roof in December 2020. 
Miss D said they hadnt repaired the previous damage yet, but said the new damage wasnt 
related to the previous damage and there was vegetation growing out of the cracks. 
Soterias surveyor re-visited Miss D and Miss Js home and reported that the previously 
identified problems hadnt been dealt with and had got worse. The surveyor wrote to Miss D 
and Miss J and said the roof is in bad condition with water coming through and weeds 
growing in the mortar in the roof valley. He said although recent bad weather had highlighted 
the problem the roof had been deteriorating for some years and so the damage isnt covered 
under the policy. The surveyor said the internal damage wasnt related to a storm incident 
and also wasnt covered. 
Miss D and Miss J complained to Soteria about its decisions on their claims. Soteria declined 
the claim based on the surveyors report and photos saying there was no sign of storm 
damage and that the damage was due to wear and tear, which isnt covered by the policy. 
Soteria said the initial damage from the previous claim hadnt been rectified.
Soterias records state that Miss D said during a call that she would get her own professional 
report about the damage. And that she said she had received a grant from the council and 
repairs had been made to the internal and external damage, but new damage had since 
occurred.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. He said it was reasonable for 
Soteria to have declined the claims as there was no evidence of storm damage to the roof.  
However, he said Miss D and Miss J also held accidental damage cover and this should 
cover the internal water damage to the loft and bedroom ceilings. He didnt think the damage 
had occurred over a long period of time as there was no evidence of mould and the photos 
hadnt shown that it had got appreciably worse between the claims.
  
Soteria agreed with the investigator. But Miss D disagreed that the external damage wasnt 
caused by a storm and she asked about cracks inside her home and whether they were due 
to water ingress. Miss D has made a separate subsidence claim to Soteria.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D and Miss J have made a separate claim for subsidence damage to their home 
concerning cracks in the walls, and have brought a complaint about this to our service. This 
complaint has been considered separately and so I havent addressed the issues here.
Miss D and Miss J say that the damage to their roof was caused by a storm and so their 
claim should be covered by Soteria. Soteria said theres no evidence of this but it is prepared 
to cover damage to the ceilings from the ingress of water. 
We checked the weather records for both Miss D and Miss Js claims and its likely a storm 
occurred in relation to the first claim. However, for the claim to succeed the damage has to 
be consistent with what a storm typically causes. In this case the photos dont show tiles 
blown off, moved or cracked as would be expected with storm damage. Vegetation growing 
in the roof mortar indicates long-term deterioration rather than a one-off event as required by 
the policy. I think the surveyors report and the photos show the damage to be due to 
gradual deterioration and wear and tear
Soterias surveyor assessed the damage to Miss D and Miss Js roof and said it was the 
same, only deteriorated, as the damage he had inspected earlier in 2020. I have seen no 
reason to disregard the professional opinion of the surveyor that the damage is due to the 
failure of the external roof mortar. 
Miss D and Miss Js policy provides cover against unexpected events such as a storm but 
doesn't insure against wear and tear, faulty design/workmanship or damage which happens 
gradually. Maintenance is the responsibility of householders and the exclusion clause for 
wear and tear is what distinguishes an insurance policy from a maintenance contract. I note 
that Miss D has said that no repairs were carried out following the earlier claim. I think it was 
reasonable for Soteria to have declined Miss D and Miss Js claim for damage to their roof.
I havent seen evidence to show that internal cracks Miss D has reported as part of her 
subsidence claim have been caused by the internal water damage.
Putting things right
Soteria has accepted our investigators recommendation that the claim for internal damage 
due to an ingress of water be met under the accidental cover in the policy. I think this is fair 
and so I have included this as a requirement within this decision. 
The policy allows Soteria to decide whether to carry out the work or to cash settle. Either 
way it would make sense for Miss D and Miss J to carry out the roof repairs first. If Soteria 
chooses to cash settle the claim it should add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
the claim to the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Soteria Insurance Limited to deal with the part of Miss D and Miss Js claim relating 
to the internal damage of staining to the ceilings as a consequence of an ingress of water to 
Miss D and Miss Js home. 
I do not require Soteria Insurance Limited to take any further action in relation to Miss D and 
Miss Js claims for storm damage to their roof, or to do deal here with internal cracks that are 
the subject of a separate claim and complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman