DRN-3521323
The complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited irresponsibly granted him  credit under a 
conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2016 Mr B acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr B was required to make an advance payment of £400 followed by 59 
monthly repayments of £242.65. The total repayable under the agreement was £14,716.35. 
Mr B would own the car if he made all his payments. I understand that the agreement was 
settled in June 2020 and Mr B entered into another agreement with Moneybarn.  
Mr B says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Mr B explained that at that time he and 
his partner were borrowing from short term lenders and he was behind with the mortgage 
and other priority bills. Moneybarn didnt agree that its checks were inadequate. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying what Mr B had said about his 
income and checking his credit file. Moneybarn said that while it found some adverse 
information on his credit file it wasnt of enough concern for it to decline the credit.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They thought Moneybarn 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement. Mr B didnt agree 
with this recommendation and said that our investigator hadnt fully considered the level of 
borrowing he had from short term and doorstep lenders at the time.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
As mentioned, Moneybarn asked Mr B about his income and verified this by checking his 
payslips. It also checked his credit file. Moneybarn said in its final response to Mr B about his 
complaint that After a review of your credit file at point of sale, although I note that there 
was defaulted debt evidenced, the amount was considered minimal, and 25 months had 
passed since this had been entered on your credit file. At the time, there was also sight of a 
previous county court judgement, but the balance and time elapsed remained within criteria 
and the details would not necessarily be characteristics that would have prevented you from 
obtaining finance.
Neither Moneybarn nor Mr B have been able to provide me with a copy of the credit file 
information available at the time. So I cant say whether or not this information should have 
raised concerns for Moneybarn to the extent it should have either declined to lend to Mr B or 
carried out further checks before doing so. However, I cant see that Moneybarn asked Mr B 
about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated 
what his regular living expenses were. Mr B would potentially need to meet his monthly 
payment for five years and, altogether in this case, I dont think Moneybarn could have 
reached a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not without 
knowing what Mr Bs regular committed expenditure was. 
I cant be certain what Mr B might have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure, or what it might have seen if it looked to verify this. In the absence of anything 
else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Bs statements as an 
indication of what Moneybarn would most likely have learned. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These are joint bank 
statements and in addition to Mr Bs income of around £1,360 I can see another regular 
income which was higher than his (by a minimum of £200) and child-related benefits of 
about £280 a month. Mr B has told us that his income and that of his partner went into their 
joint account and it seems to me that the usual joint monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £2,000. In calculating this figure, Ive included identifiable costs such as housing and 
bills, car, media and phone costs, existing credit commitments and food. Whether 
considering joint household finances or assuming Mr B was responsible for half of the costs, 
this information alone doesnt persuade me that he would have struggled to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable way.  
Mr B says that he and his partner had several loans from high cost and doorstep lenders at 
that time, which he says would have been shown on his credit file. He explained that the 
repayments for these were either paid in cash or by transfers from his joint account to his 
partners mother, who then made the repayments. Mr B had provided snapshots of his credit 
file to Moneybarn (when he complained) which show two loans from one of these lenders 
taken out in January and February 2016 with missed payments, which were still active at the 
time of his agreement with Moneybarn. I dont have any further details about these loans, or 
any of the others Mr B has mentioned, though we have given Mr B the opportunity to provide 
further information. So I dont know, for example, what the balances or repayments were, or 
who was responsible for meeting these. 
Moneybarn provided a statement of the finance account, which Ive reviewed, and I can see 
that Mr B made his payments by direct debit on time for about four years until the agreement 
was settled early in June 2020. This doesnt necessarily mean Mr B managed to meet his 
payments without difficulty. However, in this case where it seems these payments would 
likely have been affordable and in the absence of information about Mr Bs existing debts, 
there isnt anything in the statement of account alone which suggests to me that the 
payments were unsustainable for him. 
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude that further checks would have 
shown Moneybarn that Mr B would not be able to meet his payments sustainably and led it 
to decline to lend to him. So I havent concluded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving 
the finance on this occasion.  
Mr B has also complained that he was told by the dealer that he would be able to readjust 
his agreement after a year to reduce the interest rate, which didnt happen. Moneybarn told 
Mr B in its final response to his complaint that it has a loyalty scheme where customers can 
apply for further finance at a reduced rate once theyve made six payments on time and that 
this might have caused confusion. I dont know what was discussed between Mr B and the dealership. I havent seen anything 
in the customer contact records from Moneybarn to show that Mr B raised a query about 
reduced rates a year after the agreement began or at any point before he raised his 
complaint about irresponsible lending in May 2021. Furthermore, I havent seen anything 
which suggests that Mr B would not have entered into the agreement if he understood that 
the interest rate would remain as it was for the length of the agreement. Altogether, I cant 
say that Moneybarn got something wrong in this regard which would have led to Mr B not 
entering into the agreement at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited 
and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman