DRN-3281467
The complaint
Mr R complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,
S.A has turned down a claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 January 2020, Mr R took out a single trip backpacker travel insurance policy through
a broker, which was underwritten by Mapfre. The policy provided cover between 29 January
2020 and 30 September 2020. Mr R didnt have a return flight booked but intended to return
to the UK in September 2020.
Mr R departed as planned and in March 2020, was in a country Ill call C. However, due to
the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr R booked a return flight on 19 March 2020, which was scheduled
to depart on 25 March 2020. This flight was cancelled by the airline and so Mr R booked
another return flight, which was due to fly on 27 March 2020. This flight was also cancelled
by the airline and ultimately, Mr R had to book another flight with a different airline at a
significantly higher cost. He was able to recover the costs of the two cancelled flights (albeit
the first recovery was in the form of a credit voucher), so he made a claim on his travel
insurance for the costs of his return flight and a difference in exchange rates, less around
£340, which hed have expected to pay to return to the UK.
Mapfre turned down Mr Rs claim. It said that as he hadnt had a return flight booked when
he departed on his trip, he wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr R was unhappy with Mapfres decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. Mapfre
let us know that while it maintained its claims decision, it acknowledged there had been
delays in dealing with Mr Rs claim and so it offered him £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that the
policy didnt specifically state that a return flight had to be booked in order for cover to apply.
But he didnt think the flights Mr R had booked could be considered to be unused travel
expenses in line with the policy terms  as they hadnt been booked before Mr R travelled.
And he didnt think Mr Rs claim fell within the scope of cover for rearrangement. He didnt
make a finding on whether the compensation offer was fair, as he felt Mr R would need to
complain directly about this to Mapfre.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Mapfres offer of compensation was fair. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other
things, the policy terms, and the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, to decide whether
Mapfre handled his claim fairly.
I appreciate Mr R took out a specialist backpacker policy, which was intended to provide
cover for longer-term trips and which offered cover which was more tailored to a
backpacking trip. However, this doesnt mean that Mapfres required to pay all claims which
are made during a backpacking trip. The cover Mapfre provides is set out in the policy terms
and conditions.
So Ive turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, which form the basis of the
contract between Mr R and Mapfre. Mr R considers he rearranged his trip and as he
returned earlier than hed intended, I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to consider the claim
under the Cancellation, Curtailment or Rearrangement section of the policy. This provides
the following cover:
Cancellation, Curtailment or Rearrangement Costs up to the amount shown in the Schedule
of Benefits if it becomes necessary to cancel, curtail or rearrange a trip
Mapfre has defined what it means by cancellation/curtailment charges and rearrangement
costs in the policy wording. It says:
Cancellation/curtailment charges means costs for unused travel and/or Accommodation
including ski hire, ski school and ski lift passes (if the additional Premium for Winter Sports
cover has been paid) which an Insured has paid or is contracted to pay and which cannot
be recovered from any other source.
Rearrangement charges means all reasonable costs incurred in transporting the original
Insured to complete the curtailed Trip provided that such costs shall be limited to
economy fare travel and other essential expenses in transportation of the original Insured to
the point at which the original Trip was curtailed. The trip must be continued within six
months of the original curtailment. (Emphasis added).
Are Mr Rs costs curtailment costs?
In this case, Mr R didnt have a pre-booked return flight before departing. However, the
policy terms and conditions dont require such a booking to have been made in order for a
policyholder to be eligible for any cover at all. What it does mean though is that Mr R would
always have needed to pay for a new return flight to the UK, whenever he returned, at his
own cost. He didnt lose out on the cost of a return flight hed booked prior to leaving the UK
in January 2020. While the flight he ultimately took cost him more than he believes hed have
paid to return in September 2020 if travel hadnt been disrupted by Covid-19, he hadnt paid
for it before he travelled and neither was it unused. So I dont think it was unreasonable for
Mapfre to conclude that this flight cost didnt fall within the definition of curtailment charges.
I do appreciate though that the two return flights Mr R booked in March 2020 were unused.
So Ive gone on to consider what these terms wouldve likely meant for Mr Rs claim in the
event that Mapfre hadnt concluded that the lack of a pre-booked return flight precluded him
from making a curtailment claim.
As Ive set out above, the policy terms say that not only must a policyholder have paid or
been contracted to pay for unused travel costs, these costs must also be irrecoverable from
any other source. In this case, Mr R has told us that he was able to recover his flight costs
from the airlines  one airline providing a credit voucher for the value of his booking (which
could fairly be treated as a recovery of his costs) and the other refunding his flight charges.
So it seems to me that these costs wouldve fallen outside of the scope of cover, even if
Mapfre had accepted the claim.
Mr R has mentioned that he incurred exchange rate losses of around £63 when the second
airline refunded his costs. However, the general exclusions section of the policy states that
Mapfre wont pay for any costs relating to currency exchange. So I think these costs would
also always have been excluded.Are Mr Rs costs rearrangement costs?
As Ive set out above, the policy does provide cover if a policyholder rearranges their trip
following its earlier curtailment, if the trip is continued within six months. In this case, Mr R
didnt rearrange his trip once hed returned to the UK or continue with it within six months of
its curtailment. So I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mr Rs claim wasnt covered
by this section of the policy either.
In any event though, I think theres a further term which wouldve likely applied to the
circumstances of Mr Rs claim. The cancellation, curtailment and rearrangement section of
the policy includes a list of specific exclusions. One of these is:
Prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr Rs claim and the reason
he decided to cut short his trip. But on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office had advised against all but essential travel abroad. On 23 March 2020,
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office had advised all UK nationals abroad to
return to the UK and the UK government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of
the local area was severely restricted. Cs government also imposed restrictions on travel on
28 March 2020. I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office advice and government restrictions in the UK  are all
likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr Rs decision to cut short his trip. So not only
are Mr Rs costs not covered by the policy terms, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted
above would apply to the circumstances of his claim anyway.
Overall then, I currently find that it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to turn down Mr Rs
claim.
Is the compensation Mapfre has offered Mr R fair?
Our investigator didnt think we could consider the compensation Mapfre offered Mr R as a
part of this complaint. I disagree. Mapfre considered its handling of this claim as a whole and
while it didnt think the claim was covered, it did acknowledge that there were delays in its
handling of it. In my view, its appropriate to consider Mapfres handling of the claim in the
round when deciding this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly that the £100 compensation which Mapfre has offered isnt
sufficient to recognise the impact its handling of the claim has had on him. Mapfre
acknowledges that it took too long to get in touch with Mr R and to make a decision on his
claim. I dont doubt this caused Mr R further frustration and inconvenience at a time when he
was likely already disappointed at having to return early from his trip. But Ive also borne in
mind the wider circumstances and that Covid-19 presented unprecedented operational
challenges to travel insurers and to their customers, which inevitably caused some delays.
Taking these factors into account, I currently think that £100 is fair compensation to
recognise the upset Mr R was caused by the delays in Mapfre assessing his claim. So I plan
to direct it to pay him this amount.
Summary
I sympathise with Mr Rs position because I appreciate hes been left out of pocket for
reasons beyond his control. But I currently find it was fair for Mapfre to turn down his claim.
And I plan to direct Mapfre to pay £100 compensation in recognition of its delays in handlingMr Rs claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mapfre accepted my provisional decision.
Mr R disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised his response:
He accepted that the claim ought to be assessed in line with the rearrangement 
cover, as hed rearranged two flights. And he accepted that currency exchange rate 
losses were excluded from cover. 
But he didnt accept that his rearrangement claim was caught by the exclusion Id 
referred to. He didnt think this applied to the circumstances of his claim as thered 
been no Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advice against travel when 
he bought the policy. And he didnt think it related to rearrangement claims anyway  
simply cancellation and curtailment claims.
Hed been caught up in a traumatic time and he didnt think it was fair for Mapfre to 
hide behind its policy wording.
No-one had considered the travel delay cover available under the policy. Mr Rs 
ultimate return flight departed 43 hours after his first booked flight had been due to 
leave. So Mr R concluded he was entitled to travel delay benefit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I still think Mapfres offer of 
compensation is fair. And I still think it was reasonable for Mapfre to turn down the claim. Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive carefully considered the policy information hes 
provided. Mapfre did send us an earlier version of the policy booklet. However, I dont think 
this makes a difference to the outcome of Mr Rs complaint, as Im satisfied the material 
terms and conditions Ive previously referred to are identical in both policy booklets.
As Ive explained, Mr R didnt plan on returning to the UK until September 2020. He 
ultimately cut short his trip and returned to the UK in March 2020. On this basis then, Im still 
satisfied it was reasonable for Mapfre to deal with the claim under the Cancellation, 
Curtailment or Rearrangement costs section of the policy  because the trip was curtailed. It 
remains the case too that in the case of curtailment claims, Mapfre will only cover a 
policyholders unused costs, which cannot be recovered from elsewhere. Mr R doesnt 
dispute that he was able to recover his two unused return flights from the relevant airlines 
and he accepts that the exchange rate loss he suffered is specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that Mr Rs curtailment 
claim wasnt covered.
It's clear Mr R feels strongly that his claim should be met under the rearrangement cover 
within this wider section of the contract. As I set out though, the policy defines what Mapfre 
means by rearrangement costs. This is set out on page 13 of the relevant policy document 
and requires that a policyholder must continue with their rearranged trip within six months of 
their original curtailment. This simply isnt the case here, as Mr R didnt continue with his trip 
after his return to the UK. So it follows that I cant fairly conclude Mr R was covered by this 
section of the policy.I understand Mr R is concerned about the exclusion clause I referred to above. This is listed 
on page 20 of the policy and says:
We will not payany loss, charge or expense due toprohibitive regulations of any 
government.
It might be helpful if I explain that regardless of this clause, I wouldve decided it was fair for 
Mapfre to conclude Mr Rs costs simply werent covered by the policy terms. However, on 19 
March 2020 (at the point Mr R decided to cut short his trip and made the resulting flight 
arrangements), it seems Cs government had already begun to impose some restrictions 
upon entry to the country, socially and had closed schools. Further restrictions later followed. 
Prior to Mr Rs return to the UK, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advised 
UK nationals abroad to return to the UK and lockdown was imposed. Taking these events 
together with the spread of Covid-19, I think its fair to conclude that these government 
restrictions impacted to at least some degree on Mr Rs decision to cut short his trip. And its 
for this reason that I find its most likely this clause wouldve applied to the circumstances of 
his claim in any event.
Mr R feels that Mapfre should pay him delay benefit for the 43-hour period between the 
planned departure of the first flight he booked and his eventual take-off. Ive looked carefully 
at the Travel Delay section of the policy. This pays a benefit if:
The Insured is delayed for at least 12 hours on the outbound or return journey because the 
scheduled departure of a Public Conveyance is affected by a strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather, mechanical breakdown/derangement, or grounding of an aircraft Due To 
mechanical or structural defect.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Mapfre will only pay delay benefit if a policyholders 
travel is delayed because of one of the listed events above. Here, Mr R hasnt provided me 
with any evidence from the relevant airlines to suggest that his return was delayed due to 
strike; industrial action; adverse weather; mechanical breakdown/derangement of the 
aircraft, or grounding of the aircraft due to mechanical or structural defect. Its open for Mr R 
to ask the airlines for such evidence if he wishes to do so and to pass it on to Mapfre to 
consider. But based on the evidence presented to it, I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude 
that Mr Rs claim wasnt covered by any section of the policy.  
Overall then, I find it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to turn down Mr Rs claim. I still find 
though that it didnt handle Mr Rs claim as well as it couldve done and I think this is did 
likely cause him additional frustration and inconvenience. So I remain satisfied that £100 is 
fair compensation to recognise the inconvenience Mr R was caused by Mapfres delay in 
assessing his claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Mapfres offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A
to pay Mr R £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman