DRN-3671222
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (MWM) to 
transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr P is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr P.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 7 November 2017, the BSPS provided Mr P with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £85,211.31.
Mr P approached MWM to discuss his pension in November 2017. MWMs notes said Mr P 
had already opted into the BSPS2 under the time to choose exercise. But he wanted to get 
advice about a transfer, so he could fully consider his options.
MWM says its first meeting with Mr P was on 21 November 2017. During that meeting, it 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ps circumstances and objectives. Mr P 
was 27, in good health, married with one financially dependent child and he and Mrs P were 
both employed. In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr P was also a member of his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme.
MWM recorded that Mr P was potentially interested in retiring at age 58 but no other 
information about his plans or objectives for retirement were noted.
MWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ps attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderate or a three on a scale of one to five. 
Application forms to transfer Mr Ps pension benefits from the BSPS to a personal pension 
were completed and signed on 30 November 2017.
On 3 December 2017, MWM sent Mr P a written summary of its recommendation (also 
known as a suitability report). MWM said it recommended that Mr P transfer his benefits 
away from the BSPS to a personal pension. It said the reasons for this were that it would 
give Mr P a clean break from his employer in respect of this pension and provide him with 
control over it. MWM also said a transfer provided Mr P with flexibility and lump sum death 
benefits to provide for his family. And it said that the guaranteed pension the existing 
scheme offered was unlikely to be enough to meet Mr Ps income needs in retirement and a 
transfer gave him the opportunity to potentially improve his benefits. MWM recommended 
that Mr P invest in one of the providers managed portfolios as it said this was in line with his 
attitude to risk. And MWM would provide ongoing servicing and advice, for a cost.
Mr P complained in 2021 to MWM as he thought the advice hed been given was unsuitable. 
MWM did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. As a result, Mr P referred the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought 
the chances of Mr P improving his benefits by transferring were limited. And he didnt think 
any of the other reasons given for a transfer were in Mr Ps best interests  not least 
because of how far from retirement he was and his needs in retirement being unknown. The 
Investigator thought, if suitable advice not to transfer had been given, Mr P would likely have 
joined the BSPS2. So, he recommended that MWM compensate Mr P for any losses caused 
by the unsuitable advice and pay him £200 for the distress hed incurred. 
MWM disagreed. It said it didnt think the Investigator had assessed the complaint on the 
right basis  as the requirements of it were to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr P, not guarantee it was in his best interests with the benefit of hindsight. 
MWM said the Investigator had placed too much weight on an analysis of the critical yield  
the rate of return required of a new pension to allow Mr P to obtain benefits equivalent to the 
guaranteed benefits he wouldve received under the DB scheme at retirement. And it said 
the discount rate which the Investigator had referenced wasnt something it was required to 
consider. MWM said it still believed Mr P had made a fully informed decision to proceed with 
the transfer, which the Investigator hadnt considered, and which it felt was crucial. And 
MWM also said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice.
Mr Ps representatives largely accepted the Investigators findings. But they said they didnt 
think making an overall 15% notional deduction from the compensation amount to account 
for income tax was fair as this didnt allow for ongoing charges that Mr P may incur.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
MWM says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr P. I agree that under COBS, MWM was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr P was suitable for him (COBS 
9.2.1). But it was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his 
best interests. And, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations and guidance apply to 
advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that MWM should only have 
considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Ps best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im 
not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
MWM was required to instruct a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This included the calculation of critical yields. The regulator required MWM 
to calculate this and consider the cost of the guarantees being given up. So, contrary 
to what MWM has argued, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant 
consideration here.
The TVAS said that the critical yield was 4.65% to match the full pension Mr P would 
have been entitled to under the BSPS2 at age 65. Or to match the benefits the PPF 
wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.35%. The report also looked at the 
critical yields required to match the benefits Mr P wouldve been entitled to from age 
58, as MWM says he indicated a preference to potentially retire at that age. To match 
the full pension estimated to be payable under the BSPS2 at age 58 the critical yield 
was 5.09%. And to match the full pension payable under the PPF was 4.97%. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. MWM has said it was not required to consider these discount rates. But the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB 
scheme with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable 
assumptions. And the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, 
while MWM was not obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a 
reasonable assumption to consider. And MWM was free to consider it. The relevant 
discount rate at the time was 4.7%. This was for both 30 and 37 years to retirement  
so relevant whether Mr P retired at 58 or 65.
There would be little point in Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve a level of benefits outside the scheme that was 
broadly comparable to what he would receive from remaining in it, given the 
additional risk this involved. And by transferring Mr P would have to pay annual fees 
and charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains the funds 
made. And those are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt transfer.
Given Mr Ps recorded moderate attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.7%, how long 
Mr P had to retire and the regulators middle projection rate, I think there was little 
scope for Mr P to improve on the benefits the BSPS2 or PPF wouldve guaranteed 
him, at his normal retirement age of 65, by transferring. And, if his fund had an 
extended period of poor performance or suffered losses then he would likely find 
himself worse off in retirement. 
Also, if he had genuinely sought to retire early at age 58, I think he was likely to 
receive pension benefits of a lower value than those hed have been entitled to under 
the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
So, I dont think transferring for the purpose of seeking to improve his pension 
benefits was in Mr Ps best interests.
MWM said there were other reasons that Mr P was interested in transferring. Ill go 
on to address these other reasons. But Id also add that MWMs role wasnt that of 
wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr P mightve thought he wanted when seeking 
advice. It was to give him objective advice about what was in his best interests.
MWM said Mr P was interested in retiring at age 58 and in the flexibility a personal 
pension provided, in respect of how pension benefits could be taken. But Mr P was 
only 27 at the time of the advice. He was unlikely to have had any realistic set plans 
for retirement and everything discussed at that time was likely to be an aspiration at 
best. Which is supported by the fact that, beyond potentially retiring at age 58, MWM 
recorded no other information about what Mr Ps retirement might look like  how 
much income he might need etc.  as this was unknown.
MWM said the benefits from the DB scheme would not have been enough to meet 
Mr Ps income needs. Notwithstanding the fact that his income needs in retirement 
were not recorded, probably unknown and he was unlikely to improve his pension 
benefits by transferring, he would also have had other income streams beyond his 
DB scheme benefits at retirement. He was a member of his employers new DC 
pension through which he expected to build up additional pension benefits. And it is 
reasonable to expect hed have continued to build pension benefits, either through 
this scheme or with another employer if he moved roles, until he retired. So, he 
wouldve had these and his DB scheme benefits in retirement, to meet his needs. 
The DC scheme benefits wouldve been accessible flexibly  already providing him 
with flexibility he was apparently interested in. And so, in my view, retaining his 
guaranteed DB scheme benefits as a solid base for his retirement income while using 
his DC scheme flexibly, if necessary, was a more appropriate way to meet his needs 
than exposing his DB scheme to unnecessary risk. 
Overall, I think it was too soon for Mr P to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme. Particularly when he could have joined the BSPS2 which 
wouldve meant he would retain the option to transfer out at a later date if his 
circumstances required it.
MWM said Mr P was interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal 
pension. But Mr P was relatively young and in good health, so there was no reason 
to believe he wouldnt be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in retirement 
into his old age. While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a 
potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different  so may not have provided the legacy Mr P mightve thought it 
would. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
If Mr P was concerned about leaving a legacy for his family, MWM ought to have 
explored insurance instead, which was likely to be cheap to provide given his age 
and wouldnt risk his own security in retirement.
So, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in 
Mr Ps best interests. And ultimately MWM should not have encouraged Mr P to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement. 
I think Mr Ps desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation seems to have been on the understanding he was 
going to take ongoing advice about how his pension was invested, at additional cost. 
So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr P  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I've noted that MWM said, in terms of this pension, Mr P wanted a clean break from 
his employer. I dont doubt that Mr P was likely to have been upset by what had 
happened with his pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his 
employer and mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I 
think that would have been a very natural emotional response to what had happened. 
But again, MWMs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ps employer and 
pension scheme were not one and the same. And Mr P intended to continue in his 
job and was paying into a new DC scheme with his employer. So, the relationship 
may not have been as irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr P may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide 
better benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr P the option to transfer closer to 
retirement. But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr P with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr P was unlikely 
to substantially improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was 
not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held 
about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ps best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
MWM says that Mr P made an informed decision to transfer. So, Ive thought carefully about 
whether Mr P would always have looked to proceed with it. I can see that MWM did give 
information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. But ultimately, it advised Mr P to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. If MWM, a 
professional adviser whose expertise he had sought out, had explained why it wasnt in his 
best interests to transfer I think hed have accepted that advice.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr P received from MWM was 
unsuitable.
MWM has said that the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the time of the advice so was not a 
genuine option for Mr P. But I think it is overstating the chance of this. The restructuring of 
the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point it gave advice. 
Actions had been agreed with the pensions regulator and carried out as scheduled  not 
least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer 
value quotations. And members had been sent time to choose letters, with opting into the 
BSPS2 one of the options offered to them. So, based on what had happened to that point, I 
think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead.
And MWMs own notes indicate that Mr P told it he had already opted into the BSPS2 before 
taking advice. So, Im satisfied, on balance, that if hed been given suitable advice not to 
transfer, Mr P wouldve remained in the DB scheme and gone on to join the BSPS2.
I've thought about Mr P's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr P would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr P 
back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened. And a deduction such as this is 
referred to in DISP App 4. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed fairly 
compensates Mr P for the impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
Our Investigator recommended that MWM make a payment for the distress caused to Mr P. I 
accept that Mr P has likely been worried to find, when he discussed matters with his 
representative, that the advice might not have been suitable for him. And given the 
circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice, I dont doubt he 
has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this 
complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the recommended award of £200 is fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and joined the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
MWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what MWM 
based the inputs into the calculator on.For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr P 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MWM should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts MWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, MWM should pay Mr P £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman