DRN-3259383
The complaint
Mrs G, who is represented by a firm of solicitors who I will call S, complains that Clydesdale
Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in
respect of the acquisition of a timeshare.
What happened
The purchases were made by Mrs G and her husband, but the finance agreement was in her
name alone so I will refer to her as the purchaser throughout this decision. S has made
lengthy submissions, but for the interest of brevity the following is a shortened summary.
However, I can reassure both parties that I have read all the material submitted to this
service.
In April 2009 Mrs G purchased a trial membership from a timeshare company I will call T at a
cost of £3,595. In July and September 2009, she purchased points-based membership. The
purchases were funded by a point of sale loan provided by Clydesdale and by credit card.
The initial purchase came after winning a holiday for which Mrs G and her husband had to
attend a presentation. The subsequent purchases were made when they were on holiday.
Mrs G says they were pressurised to make the purchase in July and were kept in a meeting
for eight hours without food. The September purchase was made to increase their points so
they could have a greater choice of resorts.
In 2012 Mrs G says they were seeking a way out of their membership and at a meeting while
on holiday she says they were told that they could trade their points for fractional ownership
which would mean their ownership would be sold off over 19 years. They followed this
advice.
S says that Mr and Mrs G were unable to book the holidays they wanted and complained on
at least three occasions. They also say that Mrs G was told they could easily sell their points
membership, but this was not the case. S says Mrs G was told that they were equivalent 
properties available at resorts across the world, but this proved not to be true.
A complaint was made to Clydesdale in February 2020. S said that in addition to
misrepresentation by T, the bank had not carried out a proper assessment of Mrs Gs
creditworthiness and had been irresponsible in granting the loans. S said the practices used
by T had been deceitful, oppressive, or otherwise unfair or improper and so had infringed the
OFT guide.
In the absence of a final response letter S brought Mrs Gs complaint to this service. It was
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She considered
that the claim had been made out of time.
S didnt agree and said that for s 75 claims the time limit was six years from the date of the
breach. It argued the breach didnt occur until later and possibly that any loss would not
accrue until the end of the 19-year term. It addressed the matter of s140 A Consumer Credit
Act 1974 and said that the contract between Mrs G and Clydesdale was unfair and
referenced the case of Nolan v Wright which it said allowed an application under s 140 A at
any time during the currency of the relationship or 12 years thereafter.
It said that T had been dissolved in 2014 and could not provide the services it had offered. S
concluded that the investigator had not properly understood the legal framework and had
made an error in law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
The complaint about the credit assessment
S had said that the lending was in breach of the relevant guidelines and that a proper credit
assessment was not undertaken. I had seen no evidence that the loans were unaffordable,
but I said it was possible that Mr G and her husband may have encountered some 
subsequent financial difficulty. I gathered Mr G had not had a pay rise for five years and Mrs 
G was later made redundant. As I understand it those factors were not present at the time of 
the loans.
However, I explained that our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.
The event complained of in this case was the credit assessment that Clydesdale carried out 
(or did not carry out) in 2009. Mrs G would have known of any financial difficulty within a 
couple of years at the most. I believed she would have known within six years. It follows that 
this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service by no later than 2016. 
Because it was not, I concluded we had no power to consider it.
Section 75
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
Although the arrangements have not been explored in any detail I addressed this
complaint on the basis that the conditions for s 75 had been met and that I must therefore
consider the claims against the seller.
Misrepresentation
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which
induces someone into a contract. S has set out in some detail the various statements made
to Mr and Mrs G and which led them to agree to buy the holiday club membership. They
were all made on or before September 2009, so that is the date on which any cause ofaction accrued.
No claim was made until Ss letter to Clydesdale 15 April 2020, more than ten years later. I
thought it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. It followed in my view that it was reasonable for 
Clydesdale to say that it would not consider the misrepresentation claim under section 75.
Claim under a deed
In response to the investigators view, S said that for a claim in respect of a breach of
obligation contained in a deed the relevant time limit under the Limitation Act is twelve years.
But I explained there was no claim under a deed in this case. Mrs Gs claims arose from a 
written contract, not under a deed.
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the
parties and refunding payments.
S said that such a claim is based on a specialty and that the effect of section 8 of the
Limitation Act is that the limitation period is twelve years from the end of the relationship
between the parties. S says the relationship is ongoing and so the limitation period has not
begun.
S cited the case of Nolan v Wright in support of its argument.  
That case pre-dated sections 140A and 140B, but considered the position under earlier, but
similar, provisions of the Consumer Credit Act relating to extortionate credit bargains. The
judge accepted that a claim under those provisions was a claim on a specialty (that is, a
claim on a statutory cause of action). That meant that section 8 of the Limitation Act applied.
Section 8 says:
8 Time limit for actions on a specialty.
(1) An action upon a specialty shall not be brought after the expiration of twelve years from
the date on which the cause of action accrued.
(2) Subsection (1) above shall not affect any action for which a shorter period of limitation is
prescribed by any other provision of this Act.
In considering the effect of subsection (2), the judge said:
As such, a 12-year limitation period applies unless the claim expressly extends to the
repayment of money previously paid under the credit bargain, in which event the application
will be governed by section 9 and subject to a 6 year limitation period accordingly.
In my view, it was clear that Mrs Gs purpose in bringing this complaint is to try to recover 
from Clydesdale money paid under the loan agreement  along with other sums. It is not, for
example, to have the terms of an ongoing loan agreement changed. Ss letter of 15 April
2020 set out the relief sought by Mrs G.
I noted that S had said that there is an ongoing relationship in this case. It may well be that 
Mr and Mrs G still had their club membership, but I said there was no ongoing relationship 
with Clydesdale. That ended when the loans were settled in January 2011 (in respect of the 
July and September 2009 transactions) and August 2011 (in respect of the April 2009transaction).
I therefore agreed with the investigator that the limitation period for this part of the claim is 
six years and that it started in August 2011 at the latest. I took the view that it was likely that 
a court would conclude that an action brought under section 140A would be out of time. 
Again, Clydesdales response was therefore fair and reasonable.
Breach of contract
S said that the time limit for bringing an action based on contract is six years from the date
on which the cause of action accrued and that Mrs Gs cause of action accrued on the date
of any breach of the contract with the seller. S referred to the seller being dissolved as a
repudiatory breach, since it was then no longer able to provide the service contracted for.
I didnt agree with that analysis. It wasnt clear that the seller provided any of the
actual services associated with club membership or that those services (whatever Mrs Gs
opinion of them) ceased in August 2014. Be that as it may, what I had to decide is whether
Clydesdales response to the section 75 claim was reasonable in the circumstances, not
whether any claim against the seller would have succeeded.
As said I had considered very carefully Ss initial letter of complaint. It set out in
some detail how the claims had arisen, what claims were being made and how Mrs G
wanted them resolved. The letter did not claim that the seller was in breach of contract and
no mention was made of its dissolution. The section 75 claim was based only on
misrepresentation.
I accepted, of course, that the letter of complaint was not a formal court pleading or even a 
letter before action complying with the necessary pre-action protocol for court proceedings.
Rather, it was intended to set out the case that Mrs G would refer to this service if
Clydesdale did not resolve things to their satisfaction.
In my view, Clydesdale was entitled to take the view that the letter of 11 February 2020
reflected the claims that Mrs G was seeking to make. It was therefore reasonable for it to
take the view that, given the claims that were set out in that letter, any court action would be
out of time under the Limitation Act. It was not until Ss letter to us of 11 May 2021 that there
was any indication of a breach of contract or of the date on which any breach may have 
occurred. By then more than six years had passed since August 2014.
I reached the following conclusion: 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own 
time limits and I had no power to consider it.
BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 75 claims and the section 104A 
claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.
Neither Mrs G nor S responded to my provisional decision and Clydesdale asked for an 
extension which was granted. They have sought a further extension, but I do not consider 
that to be appropriate and so I consider my provisional decision should stand.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial
Services Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman