DRN-4250799
The complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly approved him for an 
overdraft. He is also unhappy at the amount of contact he has received from HSBCs 
collections department. 
What happened
Mr O held an account with an overdraft with HSBC. The overdraft limit was last increased in 
November 2018. Mr O complained about the lending and HSBC issued a final response to 
this on 20 March 2019.
Mr O complained about the amount of correspondence from HSBCs collections department 
was excessive and that this was causing him distress.
HSBC explained that it uses a multitude of platforms to contact its customers as part of its 
collections process and that while it can stop some forms of contact it still has a regulatory 
requirement to issue letters when an account isnt running within the agreed terms and its 
collections process started. 
The matter was investigated by one of our adjudicators who concluded that we didnt have
the power to help with Mr Os complaint regarding the overdraft lending because it had not 
been brought to us within six months of HSBCs final response letter. And they didnt think 
HSBC had done anything wrong in chasing Mr O for the outstanding debt as it had given Mr 
O time to see whether his situation had improved as well as sign posted him to external 
agencies that could help.
Mr O disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
Why I can only look into part of this complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr O has already raised a complaint with HSBC regarding overdraft lending and HSBC 
issued a final response to this on 20 March 2019 which outlined Mr Os referral rights to this 
service. This means Mr O had until 20 September 2019 to refer the matter to this service. 
But didnt do so until June 2022. So I conclude the element of his complaint regarding 
irresponsible lending of his overdraft was referred to us out of time under the rules that I 
have to apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or in this case collections process. We offer an informal dispute 
resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
treated the customer unfairly or done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer 
back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may 
award compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
And in this case I dont think HSBC has treated Mr O unfairly. Mr O had an outstanding 
overdraft debt with HSBC and HSBC is entitled to recoup that debt and in doing so it has a 
process that it needs to follow and part of that is keeping Mr O informed about the status of 
his account and what is happening. 
I can see that HSBC has worked with Mr O and his circumstances to agree a repayment 
plan on more than one occasion over many months, as well as sign posting Mr O to external 
agencies that can help. And when it became clear Mr O wasnt able to repay the outstanding 
balance on his overdraft HSBC followed its process and issued Mr O with a final demand 
and closed his account. 
I accept that Mr O feels the amount of contact he has received from HSBC is excessive and 
no doubt has caused him some distress. But I can see that in response to Mr Os concerns 
HSBC has at times provided breathing space for Mr O to get back on track as well as putting 
a stop on all collections calls and texts being issued and Mr O has confirmed the same. 
So overall I dont think HSBC has treated Mr O unfairly, it took steps to limit unnecessary 
contact when this was raised as a concern whilst still keeping Mr O informed about the 
status of his account. 
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Os complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
                         
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman