DRN-2312071
Complaint
Mr L has complained about a conditional sale agreement that he entered into with Vauxhall 
Finance plc (Vauxhall). Hes said that he clearly couldnt afford the payments and so the 
finance shouldnt have been provided.
Mr L is being assisted in his complaint by his grandmother who Ill refer to as Mrs H.
  
Background
In May 2019, Mr L entered into a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall to purchase a 
car. Mr L wasnt required to pay a deposit so the entire purchase price of £11,910.00 was 
funded by a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall. The loan had an annual percentage 
rate (APR) of 10.3% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £252.10. This 
meant that the total amount to be repaid was £15,126.00.  
As I understand it, Mr L contacted the dealer who sold him the vehicle, within a few days of 
buying the car seeking to return it as he couldnt afford it. The dealer offered to buy the car 
back from Mr L for £9,000.00 leaving Mr L to settle the remainder of the balance. Mr L didnt 
accept this and Mrs H, on Mr Ls behalf, subsequently complained that Vauxhall shouldnt 
have entered into this agreement with Mr L as he could never have afforded the monthly 
payments. 
Vauxhall didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong but its final 
response didnt really explain why it thought this was the case. Mrs H remained dissatisfied 
and referred the complaint to us. In the period while the complaint was awaiting allocation to 
an investigator, the car was repossessed.
Mr Ls complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think the checks 
carried out before the finance was provided were reasonable and proportionate. He also 
thought such checks would more likely than not have shown Mr L couldnt afford the required 
monthly payments and so upheld the complaint. Vauxhall disagreed with the investigator, so 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and law, and considering the main reason 
for Mr Ls complaint, I think there are two overarching questions that I needed to consider in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
These questions are:
Did Vauxhall complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr L wouldve been able to do 
so?
Did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
If I determine that Vauxhall did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L and that 
she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did Vauxhall complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L would 
be able to repay in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Vauxhall lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr L could afford to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks should have been borrower-focused  so Vauxhall had to think 
about whether making the payments would cause difficulties or severe adverse 
consequences for Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for Vauxhalls lending decision to 
only consider the likelihood that it would get its money back, or that it had the ability to 
repossess the vehicle, without considering the impact making these payments would have 
on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
Vauxhalls checks
Before I look in more detail at the checks Vauxhall says it carried out in this particular case, I 
have some observations about Vauxhalls general comments. It underwriting supervisor appears to suggest that its checks were limited to asking Mr L about his income, carrying out 
a credit search and meeting its Know Your Customer obligations, which are more to do with 
identity and anti-money laundering checks. 
The underwriting supervisor also appears to suggest that the dealer ought to have ensured 
the information was correct and that Mr L was responsible for meeting its obligations to 
ensure the monthly payments were affordable. To be clear and for the avoidance of doubt as 
the regulated firm here it was Vauxhalls responsibility to assess whether the payments were 
affordable.
I now turn to Vauxhall affordability assessment. Ive considered this with reference to the 
wider circumstances at the time of this application. Mr L was looking for a car because he 
thought that his previous one, which was bought from the same dealer and also financed by 
Vauxhall was faulty. And its clear that Mr L was looking to exit that agreement. As I 
understand it the dealer offered to buy back that vehicle and sell him a replacement one. 
And as a result a finance application to purchase this second vehicle was submitted to 
Vauxhall. 
Vauxhall initially declined this second application. In a telephone conversation with Mr L, its 
underwriter explained that this was because Mr Ls score (Im assuming lending score) 
wasnt within its policy. I understand this initial decision was made on the basis Mr L had a 
clear credit file, was recorded as living with parents and had an annual income of 
£12,000.00, which had been verified with three payslips.
The underwriter told Mr L that it would only be able to lend to him if he got a joint applicant to 
join him on the application. Mr L queried this with the underwriter on the basis that hed been 
making the payments on his existing agreement. But the underwriter explained that hed only 
made a couple of payments on the first agreement and even then one of them was late. Mr L 
also said that he had a recent pay rise and so his income had increased to £1,400.00 a 
month and that his insurance would be cheaper on this new vehicle. So he could afford the 
monthly repayments on this agreement even though they were higher. 
Crucially Mr L also disclosed that he wasnt able to get a guarantor (it seems as though he 
believed he required a guarantor rather than a joint-applicant) because he wasnt living with 
his parents  even though the application recorded that he did. The underwriter picked up on 
this and questioned Mr L on this who initially said hed moved out but was equivocal on this 
(perhaps realising this might cast even more doubt on his ability to afford these payments) 
when he was asked about his rent. 
The call was disconnected before Mr L then spoke to another underwriter at Vauxhall who 
said that Mr L would either have to increase his deposit or arrange for a joint-applicant to 
join, in order for the application to be approved. And the call ended with the underwriter 
telling Mr L that she would be in contact with the dealer to say how much Mr L would need to 
increase his deposit by.    
However, and for reasons that Vauxhall hasnt been able to explain the application was 
subsequently approved without the deposit being increased, or a joint applicant but with an 
increased annual income of £17,000.00 for Mr L recorded on the application. Im particularly 
concerned Vauxhall continued with the application using an annual income of £17,000.00 
even though the payslips it requested and received (presumably to verify Mr Ls income) 
showed it was only £12,000.00 and Mr L provided nothing at all to support his assertion, 
during the earlier telephone calls, that his salary had increased. 
Vauxhall has said that it was entitled to rely on what it was told by Mr L. But Im mindful that 
CONC 5.2A.36R says: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
And there is further guidance provided at CONC 5.2A.37G which says:  
An example of where a firm has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not 
been truthful may be where information supplied by the customer concerning income or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other information of which the firm is aware.
The income information Vauxhall proceeded with was inconsistent with the other information 
which it had  Mr Ls payslips. Vauxhall could have, and arguably on one reading of the rule 
should have, declined Mr Ls application. This is especially bearing in mind it appears as 
though it considered the information in the payslips to demonstrate that Mr L was unlikely to 
have been able to repay what he was being lent, or at the very least it wasnt prepared to 
accept the credit risk. 
Furthermore, Vauxhall also says it proceeded with the application on the basis that Mr L was 
living at home with parents and so had minimal living expenses, even though the content of 
the first call with the underwriter called this into question. Bearing in mind these obvious and 
apparent inconsistencies, and without neither of the conditions it set out (Mr L having a joint 
applicant or increasing his deposit) having been met, I would at least have expected 
Vauxhall to have insisted on seeing evidence of this increase in salary and that Mr L was 
living with his parents in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
I cant see that Vauxhall did that here. In fact I cant see that any additional evidence was 
provided after the initial application was accepted. In these circumstances, and in the 
absence of anything else to indicate that Vauxhall took any further steps to address these 
apparent inconsistencies, especially as it wasnt prepared to lend based on the information 
originally provided, Im not satisfied that the checks Vauxhall carried out before reaching the 
conclusion the agreement was affordable for Mr L were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Mr L was 
able to sustainably make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told Vauxhall that it was unfair to enter into this agreement 
with Mr L. 
Mr L has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr L has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Vauxhall mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Vauxhall showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Ls financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Mr Ls bank statements because I think that Vauxhall 
ought to have obtained them before lending to him. Ive consulted Mr Ls bank statements 
because they were readily available at this stage and they contain the information I now 
need to reconstruct the proportionate check Vauxhall should have but failed to carry out. Mr Ls bank statements show he was receiving the salary set out on the requested payslip. 
As far as I can see there was no salary increase. Mr L was also paying rent - just as he 
suggested he might have been but backtracked from during the first call with the underwriter.
Vauxhall would have been aware that Mr L would be faced with a significant outlay for 
insurance for this vehicle. I accept that it might not have known just how much Mr Ls 
insurance costs would be. But nonetheless it would have known about factors such as the 
insurance group of the vehicle in question and Mr Ls age. And when the running costs are 
added to the monthly finance payments, its clear that a significant chunk of Mr Ls relatively 
low salary would be going towards this car alone. 
Furthermore, when these additional expenses are added to Mr Ls existing commitments for 
rent, bills and normal monthly living costs its clear his salary wasnt enough to cover this. In 
these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr L simply didnt have the funds necessary to make 
the monthly payments to this agreement, without it having a significant adverse impact on 
his financial position or him borrowing further. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have alerted Vauxhall to the fact that Mr L wasnt able to make 
the payments to this agreement without it having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
position and/or borrowing further. And so it follows that he wasnt in a position to take on this 
commitment.     
Did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Vauxhall acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some 
other way.  
So I find that Vauxhall didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 2 of this 
decision, I find that:
Vauxhall didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr L to satisfy itself 
that he was able to make the payments to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr L 
was not in a financial position to make the repayments on this conditional sale 
agreement without it having a significant adverse impact on his financial position or 
him borrowing further;
Vauxhall didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr L; 
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that Vauxhall unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this conditional sale agreement with Mr L.
Did Mr L lose out as a result of Vauxhalls shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Mr L suffered adverse consequences as a result of Vauxhall unfairly 
entering into this conditional sale agreement with him. As I understand it the vehicle was 
repossessed and Mr L has been left with an outstanding balance to repay. Given Mr L is being expected to pay for a vehicle that was quickly repossessed, Im satisfied he lost out 
because of what Vauxhall did wrong.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this case, I find that Mr L lost out because Vauxhall unfairly entered 
into a conditional sale agreement, which it ought to have realised was not affordable for him, 
with him. And this means I think that Vauxhall needs to put things right.
 
Fair compensation  what Vauxhall needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Vauxhall putting Mr L in 
the position hed now be in if he hadnt been sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr L 
was given the vehicle in question and it has since been taken back. So, in these 
circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put    
Mr L back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been given the vehicle in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Vauxhall to put things right in the 
following way.
Our website sets out the main things we consider when looking at putting things right in 
cases where we conclude that a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable 
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back the credit amount 
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower 
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit of the credit that they were 
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and 
charges  that will have caused the consumer to lose out. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate here. The car 
was taken back relatively soon after the agreement started and a settlement on this basis 
would mean Mr L paying for the full amount lent for a car he had for a few months, without 
owning the car at the end. 
Ive therefore given careful thought to how else it might be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mr L bearing in mind he was provided with a conditional sale agreement here.
In circumstances where a borrower was provided with finance to purchase a car they were
unable to afford to make the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be returned
and the agreement ended. Mr Ls car was returned to Vauxhall some time ago and the 
agreement was ended at this point. So clearly there is no need for Mr L to now return the 
car. But I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Vauxhall to write off the outstanding 
balance on the account.
Mr L did have use of the car for a period of time. And Id normally consider whether its fair 
and reasonable for my direction to reflect this. But, in this case, Im satisfied that Mrs H, on 
Mr Ls behalf, took steps to return the vehicle almost as soon as it was sold. And it looks like 
the dealer, whether or not on behalf of Vauxhall, refused to take the car back and it, in any 
event, ended up being repossessed shortly afterwards. Bearing this in mind, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Vauxhall to collect anything from Mr L to cover this period. Mr Ls credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is being 
refunded and the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what they owe. 
But Im mindful here that circumstances here and my direction in relation to the vehicle itself 
essentially unwinds the agreement. 
So my direction in relation to Mr Ls credit file should reflect this. And having carefully 
thought about everything, I think that Vauxhall should remove all reference to this conditional 
sale agreement from Mr Ls credit file. 
All of this means that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for 
Vauxhall to put things right by:
Writing off any remining balance on Mr Ls agreement/loan account; AND
Removing all reference to this conditional sale agreement from Mr Ls credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Vauxhall Finance plc should 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman