DRN-3126402
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs J complains about the behaviour of Hidden Hearing Limited 
(HHL) in credit broking point of sale loans that Mrs J took out. 
What happened
Mrs B brings this complaint in her capacity as Executor of the estate of the late Mrs J. In 
turn, the estate is represented by Mr J in this complaint. Mrs J was Mr Js mother.
Over a period of several years Mrs J bought a number of different hearing aids from HHL. 
She financed these purchases in various ways including point of sale loans.  The lender 
under these loans is a third party company who we have been told is no longer trading. In 
any event, the lender is not a party to this complaint. HHL acted as the credit broker for each 
of the point of sale loans taken out by Mrs J.
This service only has the power to look at the point of sale loans taken about between 
February 2008 and October 2014 and we have already told both parties why this is the case, 
and both parties accepted this.
Mr J tells us the estate complains about a number of matters, Ive summarised these points 
below.
Each time Mrs J used a finance agreement to purchase a new hearing aid there was, 
according to what Mr J tells us, a direct correlation between the end of a previous 
finance agreement and Mrs J buying a new hearing aid. Which leads the estate to 
believe that a) at the end of each agreement Mrs J was contacted by HHL b) and that 
contact then prompted her to buy a new hearing aid. He suggests that it was not 
clinical need that prompted the purchase but the business desire to churn.
In any event, however the purchases came about, not all the purchases were 
necessary because the original hearing aids could have been adjusted or repaired. 
Moreover, he suggests further still the hearing aids were not durable enough as they 
were meant to last for 7 years.
Mrs J did not need to use finance to make the purchases as she could have used 
cash.
Mrs J lacked mental capacity when she made the purchases.
Given the nature of the purchases, HHL should have contacted family members 
before going ahead.
Overall, Mr J suggests there are no records to show why each purchase was made. 
And the only proof the estate is prepared to accept is written proof.
Mr J asked if HHL had be paid commission by the lender.
Mr J on behalf of the estate complained to HHL.
HHL did not agree it had done anything wrong. It told Mr J it offered its customers yearly 
hearing tests. In between tests new technology might be introduced into the market and in 
those cases it would tell its customers about these innovations at their annual check-up. 
Moreover, its stance was that if anything, the pattern of purchases seemed to coincide with 
the date the warranties ran out rather than the dates when the finance agreements finished. 
HHL said that each hearing aid had a 24 month manufacturers warranty.
It agreed that the hearing aids were capable of being adjusted should a customers hearing 
change (and it seems that Mrs Js hearing did change considerably over the relevant period). 
And indeed, it also agrees that the hearing aids could be repaired. But it pointed out that 
some of its customers kept hearing aids for up to 10 to 15 years, others liked to update as 
soon as new technology came along, this is simply down to customer preference.
HHL indicated that according to its records Mrs J used a number of different options to 
purchase her hearing aids including cash and cheque. Further, in the circumstances it 
thought Mrs J was aware that finance agreements were not her only option. It confirmed it 
had not been paid any commission by the lender. It also explained that Mrs Js purchases 
did not qualify for its part-exchange programme.
Mr J followed up by querying a number of points. In summary, he asked why the end of the 
warranty might trigger a new purchase if some customers used their hearing aids for 10-15 
years. He also questioned why Mrs Js hearing aids were not simply adapted as her hearing 
changed. He asked HHL to provide the reason for each and every purchase and written 
instructions from Mrs J showing she had made her choices due to her own customer 
preference rather than through an intervention by HHL. In addition, Mr J wanted to know to 
what extent Mrs Js spending patterns were unusual in the context of a typical HHL 
customer.
HHL responded that Mrs J had taken out the agreement in February 2008 after her hearing 
had got worse and as a result she bought a more powerful hearing aid. In 2010 it stance was 
that its records showed Mrs J had decided to switch to a different manufacturer whose 
technology was superior. In 2014 its records show that Mrs J asked for an appointment she 
suggested she was having difficulty hearing in certain situation and changed her hearing 
aids on this basis. On that occasion she purchased a new to market type of fashion hearing 
aid.
The parties could not reach agreement therefore Mr J representing the estate of Mrs J came 
to our service.
Once the complaint was with us HHL provided new information. It said that: 
By way of further information which will give you further insight into our operations, hearing 
aid technology has evolved at a similar rate to that of mobile phones, both being a 
beneficiary of miniaturisation and Moore's law. It is typical for a fundamentally different 
model range to be launched every two years or so and a significant refresh to that range 
every year.
HHL also indicated that the typical customer will change their hearing aid every 3-4 years. It 
added that Mrs Js behaviour was typical of someone who is keen to address their hearing 
loss and understands the importance of a fully functioning modern hearing system.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it.
It appears that HHL accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr J on behalf of the 
estate did not accept the recommendation. In brief, Mr J responded to say:That Mrs Js purchasing behaviour was not normal. In any event, the amount Mrs J 
spent on hearing aids which Mr J says was £40K in total (this figure includes the 
finance agreement we cannot look at) was excessive. Mrs Js purchasing behaviour 
only makes sense if you recognise that she was the victim of pressure selling.
Repairs or adjustments should have been carried out in the first instance. But, 
instead, it seemed like HHL sold Mrs J a new hearing aid without trying these less 
costly approaches first. Moreover, Mr J wanted to know why Mrs J did not get any 
credit for the second-hand value of the hearing aids.
He reiterated that the estates position is that there is a clear link between each 
finance agreement ending and HHL encouraging Mrs J to buy a new hearing aid.
Mrs Js family should have been consulted by HHL before Mrs J was allowed to 
make her own purchases because the purchases were expensive, and she was 
vulnerable by reason of her mental capacity and her age.
Mr J on behalf of the estate asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mental capacity
Ill deal with the issue of mental capacity first. I do this because if Mrs J lacked mental 
capacity when she entered into the three agreements that are the subject matter of this 
complaint, then I would say it was fair and reasonable that HHL had to return all the money 
Mrs J spent on the finance agreements.
However, lack of mental capacity is a medical diagnosis. I have seen no medical diagnosis 
to show that Mrs J did at any relevant point lack mental capacity. It follows I have no proper 
basis on which I could uphold this complaint point.
Vulnerable consumer
Mr J suggests that his mother was a vulnerable consumer by reason of her age. Mr J tells us 
that Mrs J was in her seventies when she took out all three agreements that we are looking 
at. At the time that Mrs J took out her agreements HHL was obliged to assess Mrs J and 
treat her appropriately if she was vulnerable.
If I found that Mrs J was vulnerable and HHL had not treated her appropriately taking 
account of her vulnerability I would say it was fair and reasonable that HHL would need to 
refund the money Mrs J had paid under the finance agreements.For the purposes of this complaint when I am thinking about whether Mrs J was a vulnerable 
consumer I am looking at whether she was someone who, due to her personal 
circumstances, was especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm was not 
acting with appropriate levels of care. The notion of what constitutes a vulnerable consumer 
has evolved over the timeframe that is relevant to this complaint. But these elements were 
relevant to the consideration of whether a consumer was vulnerable during all the time 
periods that we are looking at in this complaint.
A person, however, is not going to be vulnerable just solely because they have reached a 
certain age, although age can make a person vulnerable, if by reason of their age they 
become especially susceptible to detriment.
At the time that Mrs J took out the agreements it appears she was living with her husband 
and she was able to deal to with her day to day living independently. As far as I am aware 
she had no formal process in place to help her such as a power of attorney. 
Mr J appears to suggest that because of her age Mrs J lacked capacity and this was what 
made her vulnerable. But I have already found I have no proper grounds for saying Mrs J 
lacked mental capacity. Moreover, in the circumstances, I dont agree that it would have 
been appropriate to inform Mrs Js family before credit broking these agreements with Mrs J. 
Pressure selling?
The main thrust of this complaint is that Mrs J only entered into the finance agreements due 
to pressure selling from HHL. That is inappropriate selling techniques designed to induce a 
sale. Specifically, Mr J suggests that there is a clear correlation between the end of each 
finance agreement and then an immediate new purchase. The way Mr J suggests this 
operated was that HHL kept an eye out for when each finance agreement was coming to an 
end and once it did, it contacted Mrs J. Then it took advantage of Mrs J and convinced her to 
enter into an agreement that did not benefit her.
If on balance I found that HHL had behaved in the manner Mr J suggests then I would say it 
was fair and reasonable that HHL had to refund the money paid by Mrs J under the finance 
agreements.
I have looked at what most likely happened prior to each agreement. As I have mentioned 
Mr J indicates that there was a pattern of Mrs J taking out a new agreement as soon as the 
previous agreement finished. Moreover, he suggests that each new purchase was not 
necessary. But I have not seen the pattern of behaviour he describes. Moreover, the appear 
to be substantive reasons for each new purchase.
For example, in relation to the 2008 agreement there was a gap of several months between 
the old agreement which ended in November 2007 and Mrs J taking out a new agreement. 
Further, HHL has provided customer notes which it made at the time. In the circumstances, I 
have no reason to doubt the notes. Nothing I have seen indicates that the notes are 
inaccurate. These notes suggest that Mrs Js hearing had got worse since 2005 and 
therefore she bought a new more powerful hearing aid in 2008.
Further with regards to the purchase in 2010 it appears that there had been a gap of about a 
year between this purchase and the termination of the 2008 agreement. Further, the notes 
show that Mrs J came in for a hearing test and complained about difficulties hearing in social 
situations and purchased a hearing aid with a new type of technology.
As to the agreement in 2014, there appears to have been a small gap between the old 
agreement ending and this one starting. In any event, according to HHLs notes what 
appears to have prompted the purchase was changes in Mrs Js hearing.
The notes also indicate that on several occasions Mrs J did ask for her hearing aids to be 
adjusted and repaired, and this was done. Therefore, I think Mrs J did not purchase simply 
because she thought this was the only option because HHL told her that.Moreover, although the hearing aids might well have been expected to function for longer 
than Mrs J chose to use them, this does not mean that the hearing aids were not of 
satisfactory quality. In any event, as a credit broker, HHL is not responsible for quality 
issues.
Mr J asked about commissions paid by the lender to HHL. I can see why he asked about 
this. If HHL were churning the agreements then commission payments would have 
provided an incentive. But HHL have said no commissions were paid, I have seen nothing 
that contradicts this. Moreover, it seems that the estate is no longer raising this point. But I 
cover this point just in case I am mistaken about the estates current stance.
HHL has explained why Mrs Js purchases could not be used in its part exchange 
programme. But I also see in the notes that on one occasion Mrs J decided to keep her old 
hearing aids as spares which might explain why she did not appear to seek to sell her old 
hearing aids to HHL.
Mrs J had a history of making payment using several different methods, for example 
sometimes credit and cash, sometimes cash, cheque, and credit. On this basis, I think it is 
likely that Mrs J chose the method of payment that most suited her, rather, than that she was 
pressed into taking out a credit agreements she neither wanted nor needed.
I can well understand why the estate wants to explore whether Mrs J was taken advantage 
of and why Mr J has asked for written evidence written by her to demonstrate these 
purchases were made freely by her. But it does not appear that such evidence exists 
because she and HHL did not communicate in that way. It follows that no such evidence can 
be produced, but that does not mean I must therefore find that Mrs J was the victim of 
pressure selling.
From what HHL tells us Mrs J did change her hearing aids more frequently than a typical 
HHL customer tends to do. But her purchases seem to have been prompted by hearing 
changes and that does not seem to be unreasonable.
I recognise that strictly speaking Mr J is not the consumer he is the representative of his late 
mothers estate. Nonetheless he is also Mrs Js son and I think it is appropriate that I 
acknowledge his feelings. I recognise that this decision is not the conclusion that Mr J was 
hoping for. I regret that this decision may disappoint him and worse still leave him with the 
lingering suspicion that HHL did not act in good faith towards his late and clearly very loved 
mother.
But for all the individual reasons that I have gone through above, I have no fair or reasonable 
grounds for saying that HHL must take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman