DRN-3706869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint relates to a joint mortgage and linked mortgage current account 
(MCA) they hold with Barclays Bank UK Plc. They are unhappy that Barclays recorded 
adverse information on their credit files about the MCA between November 2020 and 
February 2021.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with Barclays in 2008. It was for approximately 
£321,000 on an interest-only basis over 11 years and 11 months. 
The mortgage came with a MCA which had an initial reserve of £50,000. The MCA is a bank 
account with an overdraft facility or reserve. As capital is repaid off the mortgage, the 
overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to a rebalancing function. 
The overdraft can be spent by the borrower, through the MCA, although it is entirely the 
borrowers decision whether to do so. 
The overdraft becomes repayable in full when the related mortgage account is repaid  
either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage is repaid sooner, for 
example, on sale or re-mortgage of the property. 
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time 
without penalty. They can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit 
like a normal bank account. If there is a credit balance, interest accruing on that balance 
can, if the customer requests it, be offset against the mortgage interest. However, the MCA 
in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as an overdraft facility with debit interest 
accruing on the outstanding balance.
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. The interest rate charged is Barclays standard 
variable rate.
The mortgage term came to an end in early 2020, at which point both the mortgage and the 
MCA balance were due to be paid in full. Mr and Mrs M didnt repay the mortgage or the 
MCA balance at that time. The outstanding mortgage balance was just over £319,000 and 
the MCA reserve amount owed was approximately £43,500.
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs M were finding it difficult to make payments toward the mortgage 
and MCA debts. An income and expenditure exercise was completed, which showed that 
their outgoings were £875 more each month than their income. As such, Barclays offered 
them a three-month payment holiday for the mortgage and MCA. The payment holiday was 
due to end on 14 August 2020 and Barclays asked Mr and Mrs M to contact it at that point to 
review the situation and see what it could do for them going forward. Mr M had suggested 
earlier in the conversation that he could afford to pay £50 per month each to the mortgage 
and MCA, and when he was told Barclays was giving him a payment holiday he questioned 
whether that meant he had to pay the £50. He was told to pay what he could. 
While Mr and Mrs M have said they contacted Barclays in August 2020, Barclays has no 
record of such a call. Mr and Mrs M were also unable to provide evidence of such a call 
when our investigator asked for it. However, after the payment holiday they started to make 
the full monthly payments to the mortgage again. They also made payments to the MCA. 
However, the addition of interest to the account caused the overdraft limit to be exceeded. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs M on 7 November 2020 to tell them that they were over the 
overdraft limit and needed to make a payment of £163.49. It said that if that amount wasnt 
cleared within the following 14 days it might take the following action:
1)Transfer any credit balances they have with Barclays to reduce the overdue amount. 
2) withdraw or reduce the MCA overdraft facility. 
3) cancel cards, cheque books, direct debits, standing orders and automatic transfers.  
In addition, it was confirmed that credit reference agencies might be notified, and the 
following situations would be recorded on their credit files:
Any formal repayment arrangement agreed.
That the account is in arrears resulting from missed payments.
The balance of a secured current/reserve account had exceeded the authorised limit by 
£50 or more.
Mr and Mrs M were also sent monthly statements for the MCA. These clearly set out what 
the overdraft limit was - £43,360 - and what the account balance was. The statement of 
10 November 2020 showed a balance of £43,843.49. That increased to £44,009.46 by the 
December 2020 statement. The January and February 2021 statements also showed 
balances more than £50 above the overdraft limit.
The MCA balance remained in excess of the overdraft limit until early March 2020, when 
Mr and Mrs M made an additional payment to reduce it. The fact that the overdraft was 
exceeded was recorded on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files from November 2020 to 
February 2021. 
Mr and Mrs M complained about the situation and Barclays issued three responses. It set 
out that the amounts paid to the MCA in the autumn of 2020 had meant that the account 
balance had exceeded the overdraft limit. As such, that was reported to credit reference 
agencies. It didnt consider it was wrong to have done so, as it was obliged to record factual 
data.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with Barclays response and asked this service to look into 
their complaint. 
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. Ultimately, it was recommended that it be 
upheld. The investigator was satisfied that Barclays had told Mr and Mrs M to pay what they 
could to the MCA, and they did that. However, he believed that as Barclays knew 
Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulties, it should have done more after the payment 
holiday ended and ensured that they understood that going over their overdraft limit could 
impact their credit file. As Barclays didnt attempt to contact Mr and Mrs M about the 
situation during this period, and he was persuaded they could have afforded to make higher 
payments, the investigator concluded that the adverse information should be removed from 
Mr and Mrs Ms credit files. He also considered that Barclays should pay them £250 for the 
upset and inconvenience it had caused them.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It questioned, if Mr and Mrs M had 
funds to pay more to the MCA and cover the amount of the interest being charged, why they didnt do so, if they were following the instruction to pay what they could. It highlighted that it 
had sent Mr and Mrs M monthly statements showing the overdraft was over its limit and had 
written to them in November 2020 to tell them about the situation, including a warning about 
the consequences to their credit files, but they didnt take any action. 
Our investigator considered Barclays further comments, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. He considered that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to have relied on what 
they were told in the last conversation about paying what they could to the MCA, which 
Barclays hadnt corrected. He considered that Mr and Mrs M were clearly struggling 
financially due to the pandemic and, as the term had also ended, they would need Barclays 
to support them. It didnt do so and didnt make it clear what the consequences were of not 
keeping within the MCA overdraft limit. 
Barclays remained unhappy with the investigators view. It reiterated its position as to why it 
didnt consider it had done anything wrong in reporting a factual matter to credit reference 
agencies. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
While not relevant to the outcome of the complaint, for completeness, I will comment on a 
question that Mr and Mrs M have raised recently. They appear to believe that Barclays 
shouldnt have continued to record information about the MCA with credit reference agencies 
after February 2020 when they should have repaid the overdraft. The MCA is a bank 
account which is open ended, it is only the overdraft facility attached to it that was meant to 
have a finite term, but as it was not repaid, it remained active. As Barclays reports to credit 
reference agencies for its live accounts, it continued to report on the account. That will 
remain the case until the account is closed.
It has been focussed on that Mr M was told in the conversation with Barclays in May 2020 
that he should pay what he could. Having listened to the context of that comment, I dont 
consider it was a long-range instruction, but rather it related to the period of the payment 
arrangement. I say this as it said in response to Mr M asking whether he needed to pay the 
£50 hed said he could afford during the three-month payment arrangement. That said, 
Mr and Mrs M werent obliged to make a specific monthly payment to the MCA; all they had 
to do was keep the amount owed within the overdraft limit. 
There has been much discussion about what did and should have happened following the 
end of the payment holiday in August 2020. In May 2020 Mr and Mrs M were granted a 
payment holiday and they were told that they should call Barclays back in August for it to 
review the situation and see what it could do to help further. However, Mr and Mrs M didnt 
contact Barclays to ask for further assistance. Rather they started paying their mortgage in 
full and making payments to the MCA again. At this point, while Barclays was aware that 
Mr and Mrs M had been in financial difficulties some months earlier, it would have appeared 
to the bank that those difficulties were over as Mr and Mrs M could afford their mortgage 
again.
As Mr and Mrs Ms financial difficulties appeared to have been resolved and they hadnt 
asked for any further help, I dont consider Barclays needed to do anything more in 
August 2020. The next indication Barclays had that there might be an ongoing problem is 
when the MCA overdraft exceeded the limit by more than £100. At this point it wrote to 
Mr and Mrs M. It was explained what they needed to do to resolve the situation and what the potential consequences could be, including the situation being reported on their credit files. 
Help was also offered in the event of financial difficulties. The letter was sent on 
7 November 2020, so Mr and Mrs M had plenty of time before the end of the month, when 
credit reporting happened, in order to resolve the situation. I dont consider, in the 
circumstances, Barclays needed to do more at that point. 
I note that Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt receive the November 2020 letter. I have 
examined it and it was correctly addressed. While we accept that some letters do go astray 
in the postal system, this tends to be when there is a problem with the address or a specific 
problem with deliveries in an area. The vast majority of post that is correctly addressed is 
delivered. So while Mr and Mrs M may not have realised the importance of the letter, I am 
satisfied that they most likely received it. 
In addition, Barclays were sending Mr and Mrs M monthly bank statements for the MCA. 
From the November 2020 statement these were also showing that the account balance was 
more than £100 over the overdraft limit. This would also, reasonably, have alerted 
Mr and Mrs M that they needed to take some form of action to put the account in good order. 
Following Mr and Mrs M not taking any action to remedy the situation in November 2020, it 
would have been helpful if Barclays had made further attempts to contact them to see if they 
were suffering further financial difficulties. However, the overdue amount was relatively small 
in the scheme of things, the consequences had been explained, and from December 2020 
Mr and Mrs M were paying more than they needed to cover the interest accrued and were 
reducing the excess amount. In the circumstances, while the service from Barclays could 
have been better, I dont consider there was any significant failing.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs M would have been aware that theyd exceeded their 
overdraft facility on the MCA, and the potential consequences of having done so. As such, I 
dont consider it was inappropriate for Barclays to report the facts of the account to credit 
reference agencies. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs M didnt. They said Mr M had been 
ill with Covid-19 during the time in question and had been unable to manage his affairs for 
four months, and is still suffering the aftereffects of the infection. They dont believe that I 
took this into account when reaching my conclusions. They reiterated their previous 
comments about the credit file entries and the effect it has had on them, and the non-receipt 
of the letter about the MCA limit being exceeded in November 2020. They said that there 
had never been an issue regarding their payments or being over the MCA limit in the twelve 
years theyd had the mortgage and MCA. They said that if they had received the 
November 2020 letter about the MCA balance, they would have dealt with the situation and 
rectified it immediately, and they wouldnt be in the situation they currently are. 
Mr and Mrs M provided a copy of the regulators guidance for firms for customers effected by 
the Covid-19 pandemic, which they dont think Barclays applied to their situation, and 
consider I completely disregarded.
Following being provided with a copy of Barclays letter of 7 November 2020, Mr and Mrs M 
commented that it wouldnt be easily overlooked, given that it was six pages long. They 
asked that Barclays be required to provide proof of posting. This request was due to their 
belief that most of Barclays staff were working at home, and its systems were inadequate to 
cope with that, based on problems theyd encountered when speaking to Barclays during 
that period. Mr and Mrs M also told us that they couldnt open some documents that the 
investigator had sent them. 
Our investigator explained that the November 2020 letter was system generated 
automatically when the MCA balance reached a certain level. As such, the fact that some of Barclays staff were working at home wouldnt have affected its production. In light of this, we 
confirmed that we didnt believe that proof of posting would be available, nor that we would 
consider it necessary. The investigator offered to send further copies of any documents 
Mr and Mrs M were unable to open. They confirmed that they would let the investigator know 
what documents they wanted further copies of, but then didnt contact him further. As the 
timescale detailed in my provisional decision has expired, and Mr and Mrs M have had the 
opportunity to ask for any further documents they wanted, the complaint has been returned 
to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has introduced the fact that he was unwell for a period of four months with Covid-19 
and has suffered aftereffects since. He hasnt confirmed when those four months were, but I 
dont believe that it affects my conclusions in this case. I say this as the MCA was a joint 
account and the correspondence was sent to both Mr and Mrs M, so if Mr M was unable to 
pay the necessary attention to the status of the MCA, Mrs M would have been in a position 
to do so instead. 
As for Mr and Mrs M not remembering receiving the letter of 7 November 2020, I have 
explained why I consider it likely that the letter was correctly delivered. However, I would 
again confirm that this was not the only document telling Mr and Mrs M that they were 
notably over the MCA overdraft limit. The monthly statement they were sent a few days after 
the 7 November letter and monthly thereafter, clearly set out the overdraft limit and showed 
that the amount they owed was in excess of that limit. I remain satisfied that Mr and Mrs M 
would have been aware of the situation at the time it was happening and before anything 
was reported on their credit files.
Mr and Mrs M have said that all they have asked for is a little compassion. I can understand 
the difficult position they find themselves in, but as I explained in my provisional decision, 
Barclays wasnt wrong to report the information it did on their credit files. They were over 
their overdraft limit, on an active account, and they would reasonably have been aware of 
that fact from the letter of 7 November 2020 and the monthly statements theyd been sent. If 
a lender reports on its accounts to credit reference agencies, it is required to report accurate 
information. That is what Barclays did and I cant find it was wrong to do so.
Mr and Mrs M have said that Barclays didnt comply with the regulators guidance for how 
customers should be treated if they were in financial difficulties due to the effect of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. I would refer Mr and Mrs M back to my provisional decision in which I 
explained that, following the end of the Covid-19 payment holiday theyd been granted, I 
didnt consider that Barclays had any reason to believe that Mr and Mrs M were still suffering 
from financial difficulties and needed assistance. Having reviewed all the evidence again, 
I remain satisfied that, following the end of the Covid-19 payment holiday, Barclays didnt 
have any reason to believe they needed further assistance and they didnt tell Barclays that 
was the case. I cant find Barclays did anything wrong in this regard.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 October 2022.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman