DRN-1627242
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that esure Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr L called up esure to let it know hed lost a ring. He didnt go onto make a 
claim at that point, but he did tell esure that the ring couldve been lost in a skip. He said he 
was going to keep on looking for it.
About a month later, Mr L called back to make a claim. He told esure hed searched for the 
ring and the skip was the only place it could be. Based on what Mr L had told it, esure turned 
down Mr Ls claim. It said he hadnt taken personal possessions cover on his policy, which 
was the only section which would cover his loss.
Mr L wasnt happy with esures decision. He said he wasnt sure where hed lost the ring. He 
said hed only gone to the skip for a short time, and hed more likely lost the ring in the 
garden. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He agreed that while Mr L 
had accidental damage cover on his policy, this would only cover the lost ring if itd been lost 
in Mr Ls home. But if the loss happened away from the home, it would only be covered by 
the personal possessions section of the policy. Mr L hadnt taken this out. The investigator 
listened to the calls Mr L had made to esure when he first let it know about his lost ring and 
when hed made the claim.  He thought given what Mr L told the claims handler; on balance, 
hed believed it was most likely Mr L thought hed lost the ring at the skip rather than at 
home. So he thought Mr Ls claim wasnt covered.
Mr L disagreed. He said there was the possibility that the ring had been lost in his garden, as 
hed spent some time out there. He felt as there was no proof about where his ring had been 
lost, esure should pay his claim. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
esure to turn down Mr Ls claim. Ill explain why.
Mr Ls policy covers accidental loss if it happens within his home. But the policy only covers 
accidental loss away from the home if a policyholder has added-on the personal 
possessions optional cover. 
I can see from Mr Ls policy schedule that he chose to take up accidental damage cover, but 
didnt add on personal possessions cover. I can see that the personal possessions definition 
includes jewellery which is removed from the home and which is normally worn. So I think Mr 
Ls ring would fall within this definition. This means if the ring was lost away from Mr Ls home, its loss wouldnt be covered.
Mr L says he isnt sure where he lost the ring. He thinks it couldve been lost in the garden. 
He doesnt think theres any proof he lost it at the skip. I accept theres no evidence to show 
exactly where the ring was lost. Esure thinks its fair to assume it was most likely lost at the 
skip. So Ive listened to the calls Mr L made to esure to see if I think it handled his claim 
fairly.
During the first call, Mr L explained that he wasnt sure where the ring had been lost. But he 
said hed been to the skip, and hed climbed inside the skip to search for the lost ring. He 
also said hed searched at home for the ring. So I agree, at this point, Mr L hadnt indicated 
that the ring had more likely been lost at the skip.
But during the second call, I think Mr L did suggest it was most likely the ring had been lost 
at the skip. He told the claims handler hed stripped and searched his house with no 
success. The claims handler noted from the call log that Mr L had previously mentioned the 
skip and asked him if he thought it was missing in there. He responded, Well, thats really 
the only place it could be now.
Mr L reiterated the searches hed carried out at his home and concluded: So we can only 
think its gone in the skip. 
I appreciate Mr L went on to say he didnt know where hed lost the ring. But I do think he 
suggested he thought hed most likely lost it when hed been to the skip. So I think it was fair 
for esure to decide, on balance, that was how the loss had occurred. And given Mr L told 
esure about the thorough searches hed done at home, I think it was a reasonable 
conclusion to draw.
Id add that I also think its fair for esure to rely on what Mr L first told it about how he thought 
the loss had happened. Thats because we generally take the view that a consumers initial 
recollections are likely to be the most reliable. Mr L later considered it was more likely the 
ring had been lost in the garden. But I think it was reasonable for esure to place more weight 
on what hed told it about the skip when he first made his claim. 
Accidental losses of personal possessions away from Mr Ls home simply arent covered by 
the terms of his policy. So overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think it was fair for 
esure to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman