DRN-3666413
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage and further advance Mrs L held until 
recently with The Mortgage Works (TMW). The main mortgage came off its existing fixed 
rate whilst the fixed rate was still running on the further advance. TMW offered Mrs L new 
rates to choose from on the main mortgage, but she considered them uncompetitive 
compared with other lenders, and indeed to the deals TMW was offering to new borrowers.
Mrs L had hoped she could repay the main mortgage by switching to another lender, but 
keep the further advance with TMW. But she had to repay the further advance as well, and 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) because it was repaid mid-way through its own 
fixed rate deal.
Mrs L wants her ERC refunded and argues that offering higher rates to existing customers 
than those available to new ones is an unfair practice. She likens it to the ruling from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on the renewal deals offered to customers in the 
insurance market.
Our investigator didnt think TMW had done anything wrong. Mrs L asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs L and TMW Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs L being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the fairness or otherwise of the range of interest rate products TMW made 
available for Mrs L to select from when the main mortgage deal came up for renewal. 
Lenders price their products, and select the range of consumers to whom they make them 
available, to reflect their commercial needs and objectives. 
Having considered all the circumstances, Im not satisfied Mrs L has been treated unfairly 
here. The key point here is that this was a BTL mortgage, not a residential one. It wasnt 
subject to regulation by the FCA; BTL mortgages are viewed as business contracts where 
both parties are engaged in commercial activity. 
So TMW wasnt obliged to consider any regulatory requirements on product pricing or 
differentials between new and existing customers. If Mrs L believes the issue she has raised 
is one that should be looked at by the Competition and Markets Authority, then she is free to 
approach that body. Its not something that we would do for her. 
TMW did have interest rates available for Mrs L, and so she was able to choose whether to 
take out a rate that TMW was offering, or shop around elsewhere. Im satisfied that Mrs L 
was treated no differently from any of TMWs other existing customers when considering the 
options she had available.
On the point about having to repay both loans rather than just one, the starting point here is 
the respective offers for the 2016 rate variation on the main mortgage and the 2019 further 
advance. Even though the mortgage is a BTL, hence unregulated, the offers were set out in 
a manner that meets the information requirements the FCA imposes in respect of regulated 
mortgages.
Both the rate variation in 2016 and the further advance in 2019 were taken out on a 
non-advised basis; that means TMW didnt recommend either of them to Mrs L, or advise 
her in any way on their suitability for her. It was up to Mrs L to satisfy herself that the terms 
of both offers, in their entirety, met her needs and circumstances at the relevant times. 
Im satisfied Mrs L entered into the 2019 further advance knowing the main mortgage deal 
would end before the further advance had cleared its ERC period. Its possible to repay a 
further advance and keep the main advance running; its only when its the other way around 
that both must be repaid together. Thats a term of the legal charge Mrs L executed when 
she first took the mortgage out. 
Mrs L says TMW didnt tell her that, but I wouldnt expect it to. Leaving aside for one moment 
that the rate variation and further advance offers were non-advised in any event, the 
requirement to repay all monies owing under a legal charge if the original borrowing is repaid 
falls under legal advice, to be given by the borrowers conveyancer, if asked, at the time of 
taking the mortgage out.
All of the evidence Ive been given to consider from both parties to the dispute points to one 
conclusion; that Mrs L elected to pursue a re-mortgage to another lender because she 
considered it more beneficial than staying with TMW on the contract terms shed entered into 
of her own volition. By doing that, Mrs L put herself in the position of having to repay both 
parts of the mortgage, not just the one that was ERC-free. That was Mrs Ls prerogative but 
it was also her choice, and she must accept the consequences of the choice she made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman