DRN-2372891
The complaint
 Mrs D and Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
 
What happened
  Mrs D and Mr G were sold an MPPI policy in August 1995 that covered Mr G against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment. They took the insurance out alongside a mortgage 
in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D and Mr G disagreed, and their complaint 
was then passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2020 upholding Mrs D and Mr Gs complaint. 
Within the decision I made the following findings:
I concluded the policy was more likely mis-sold by Lloyds because it made a 
recommendation that wasnt suitable for Mr G, as the sole policy holder.
Mr G had told our service that he had received a years worth of sick pay and 
substantial savings. Our service asked for more details about this and he provided a 
screenshot of his employers terms and conditions. This supported his recollections.
I concluded that what Mr G had stated about his savings and sick pay was credible 
and plausible. I thought the policy wouldnt have seemed worthwhile to him. I was 
minded to conclude that the cost of the premium and the benefits held within the 
policy wouldnt have seemed worthwhile. 
Because of this I upheld Mrs D and Mr Gs complaint and then asked both parties for 
comments by 13 December 2020.
Both parties have confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Mrs D and Mr G responded through their representatives on 13 November 2020 and have 
nothing further to add.
Lloyds responded on 18 November 2020 and have nothing to add. It says it agrees with my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs D and Mr Gs case.
As both parties do not have any further points to raise and Lloyds agree with my decision, I 
do not need to depart from my findings given within my provisional decision.
In conclusion, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs D 
and Mr Gs complaint.
Putting things right
  Lloyds should put Mrs D and Mr G in the financial position they would be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. It needs to pay Mrs D and Mr G:
The total monthly premiums they paid for the policy, and
Interest at 8% per annum simple on each of the premiums from the date each was paid 
to the date of settlement. 
If Mrs D and Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
Lloyds should tell Mrs D and Mr G how its worked this out.
Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs D 
and Mr G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs D and Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs D and Mr G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs D and Mr G fair 
compensation in accordance with the above calculation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman