DRN-1657113
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) mis-sold 
him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W bought a regular premium MPPI policy in April 1997 alongside a mortgage. The 
mortgage and policy ended in or before April 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. As Mr W doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Neither party has been able to say to our service where the sale took place. But in Lloyds 
submission to us, it says it called Mr W about his complaint and during this call they agreed 
the sale took place in a meeting in a branch. So in the absence of anything else to go on, I 
will proceed that this was the case. 
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties and have decided not to uphold Mr 
Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
Lloyds has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Lloyds to Mr W and Ive not been able to see most of the 
original sales documentation (Lloyds has provided an application form but it is not 
legible in most places). So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mr W was 
given a choice or not as to whether he should have the MPPI policy (or whether it 
was added without his consent).
 
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years that have passed since the sale, I 
have not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of the sale either. So with this in 
mind, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy was added without Mr 
Ws consent. I just havent seen enough to make that conclusion. 
 Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr W and so, as this puts 
additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the case. So 
as it did recommend the policy to Mr W, it had to ensure during the sale that the 
policy was suitable for his needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr W based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr 
W has not said whether he had sick pay but the policy would also have paid in 
addition to any provisions he would have had. So the benefit would have been of use 
to Mr W during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think, on balance, Mr W had a need for this cover for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for him.
 
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mr W took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover and 
how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr W in a clear 
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I dont 
think Mr W would have done anything different and decided against having the policy 
for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr W wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman