DRN-3184575
The complaint
Miss K and Mrs K complain about the way Engage Mutual Funds Limited (trading as One 
Family) have administered the child trust fund (CTF) taken out for Miss Ks benefit when she 
became an adult. They are unhappy that they werent informed about the removal of a 
lifestyle feature and believe this has caused a financial loss. 
  
What happened
In October 2005, Mrs K opened a CTF account for her daughter  Miss K. Mrs K was the 
named person on the account. Regular contributions were made each month to the account. 
When the account was opened it included a lifestyling feature that was intended as the child 
got closer to 18, the investment would progressively move out of shares and into lower risk, 
but potentially lower return, bond and cash-based funds. 
In 2020  shortly before Miss Ks 18th birthday, they noticed the value of the investment had 
gone down and they were surprised at this as they were expected the funds to be moved to 
low risk investment by this stage. They queried this with Engage Mutual and discovered that 
the lifestyling feature had been removed. They raised a complaint as they were unhappy 
about not being given notice of the change in how they understood the CTF worked.  
Engage Mutual didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said the lifestyle feature was 
originally going to start when a child reached the age of 13, but following Government 
intervention this was delayed. Then in April 2017, the Government removed the requirement 
for CTF providers to offer lifestyling. Engage Mutual said it followed the Government advice 
and removed lifestyling from its CTFs. It said it communicated this change to Mrs K. It also 
said the information in the annual statements sent also reflected the change, with projections 
taking into the account that lifestyling had been removed. 
Miss K and Mrs K didnt accept Engage Mutuals explanation and referred the complaint to 
this service for an independent review. One of investigators looked into the matter and 
thought the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied that Engage Mutual had 
provided sufficient evidence to show Miss K and Mrs K were informed of the removal of the 
lifestyling feature. He thought that to put things right, it needed to compare the position of the 
investment had a switch been made for half of the investment to a lower risk fund. 
Engage Mutual initially accepted the investigators opinion that that there had been failings, 
but it didnt accept the proposed compensation the investigator set out. As no agreement 
could be reached Engage Mutual withdrew its acceptance of the investigators opinion  and 
asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on whether it had actually failed to inform Miss 
K and Mrs K about the withdrawal of the lifestyling feature. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021  I said I intended to uphold the complaint. 
This is what I said:
The complaint centres around changes that were made to Miss Ks CTF account. When Mrs 
K opened a CTF for Miss K in 2005 she says the inclusion of a lifestyling feature was an 
attraction. Mrs K understood that the account would benefit from a lifestyling feature that 
meant the funds in the account would gradually move from stock market invested funds to 
lower risk funds as Miss K approached her 18th birthday. This feature was set out by the 
government when it first proposed CTFs in 2003 and said the following:
The stakeholder CTF account should be designed to spread assets between stocks and 
asset classes to balance risk and return with regard to the expected maturity of the 
investment. A lifestyling approach should be taken, where the proportion of less risky 
investments should increase as the stakeholder CTF account reaches maturity. The form of 
lifestyling will not be prescribed but providers will be expected to follow a principles-based 
approach...  Providers will be required to manage the investment appropriately for the needs 
of the account holder. Unless otherwise notified by the investor, the presumption should be 
that the account holder will want to close the account at 18 or move the funds to a cash 
account; the account should therefore gradually be shifted from equities to investments such 
as gilts or cash as age 18 approaches. If the account holder indicates that he or she wants 
to continue investing the CTF funds in another equities-based product at age 18 there will be 
no need to move the funds out of equities.
For Miss K the lifestyling feature was intended to start when she was 13 in September 2015. 
But prior to this date, in October 2014, the government changed its decision and informed 
account holders (and their parents) and businesses that it was moving the start date 
requirement for lifestyling to age 15. This was to be affective from April 2015. 
Engage Mutual says it did send a mailing to Mrs K in February 2016 to inform her of this 
change in government legislation. It has provided a sample of the letter it says it sent  but 
doesnt hold a copy of the letter sent. I note Mrs K doesnt recall receiving this mailing. But 
as the deferment of the lifestyling feature was effectively enforced on Engage Mutual by the 
government, I havent found there was any other option but for Mrs K to accept this change 
for Miss Ks CTF. So for the purpose of my findings on the complaint, whether notice was 
provided by Engage Mutual or not, I dont think it would make a difference to the outcome. 
 
But there were further changes made to the CTFs following a government consultation in 
2016. Essentially from April 2017 the government removed the requirement to provide a 
lifestyling feature and left it to providers to decide whether they would continue to or not. 
Engage Mutual said it decided to remove lifestyling from September 2017  which also 
happened to coincide with Miss Ks 15 birthday. It says it informed Miss K and Mrs K of this. 
Engage Mutual hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mrs K. 
Instead it has provided a sample of a letter sent on 30 August 2017. This does explain that 
the lifestyling feature was to be removed and if it was still required the CTF would need to be 
transferred to a new provider. But it hasnt been able to show any contact records or other 
information to say this was the letter that was sent Mrs K. In fact, it has conceded that it cant 
be sure that this was the letter that was sent to these customers. Considering that the letter 
was dated five days before Miss Ks 15th birthday- when life styling was due to start on her 
account  it is far from certain this letter is relevant to this account. Engage Mutual has sent 
other mailings and statement inserts from 2018. But as these postdate when Miss K turned 
15, I dont find they are strong evidence to support that they were told about the removal of 
the lifestyling feature when they should have been. Engage Mutual says the 2018 statement 
inserts would have been the same ones that were sent with Miss Ks statements before she 
turned 15. But again, it cant provide contact records to show which of Miss Ks statements 
would have had this insert included. 
Miss K and Mrs K say they didnt receive the August 2017 mailing  or any other 
correspondence for that matter informing them about the removal of the lifestyling feature. 
They maintain the lifestyling feature was an important part of the account, so were shocked when they saw the full in value of the CTF in 2020 when they were expecting it to be moved 
to safer funds by this time.  
Mrs K says they did move to a new house on 7 September 2017. Engage Mutual said they 
were only informed of the change of address in October 2017. A copy of the call isnt 
available. The notes Engage Mutual hold from October 2017 phone call dont suggest the 
policy features were discussed. So Ive got nothing to suggest anything but the change of 
address was discussed at this time. 
Having considered the submissions of both parties, I dont have conclusive evidence to say 
Mrs K was informed about the change to Miss Ks CTF. So I need to decide on balance what 
I think is most likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Engage Mutual did send mailings to its customers about the removal of the 
lifestyling feature. But what I cant rule out is that it might have missed some customers with 
these mailings. This is a relevant consideration as Miss K and Mrs K are adamant that they 
didnt receive any information. All of the example mailings that have been sent do not tie in 
with the date that I would expect them to have been told about the change. The closest 
example Ive seen is the August 2017 sample, but this likely to have been too late to inform 
of the changes as it was dated just a few days before Miss Ks 15th birthday. This leads me 
to have doubts whether this is a mailing that is relevant to Miss Ks account. On balance I 
dont think Engage Mutual has provided persuasive evidence that they were informed of the 
removal of the lifestyling feature. And I think if they had had been, then Mrs K would have 
sought to transfer the account to another provider  so that Miss K could retain the feature. 
Im satisfied that this would have been possible as despite the government consultation, it 
wasnt compulsory for all providers to remove the lifestyling feature. 
So I think the starting point for deciding what should have happened is from Miss Ks 15th 
birthday in September 2017  as this is the date lifestyling was due to start. So for the 
purpose of a comparative redress calculation Ive made the assumption lifestyling would 
start on the 4 September 2017. The actual terms of how the lifestyling feature arent fully 
clear. 
The government first proposed CTFs in 2003 and said the following:
The stakeholder CTF account should be designed to spread assets between stocks and 
asset classes to balance risk and return with regard to the expected maturity of the 
investment. A lifestyling approach should be taken, where the proportion of less risky 
investments should increase as the stakeholder CTF account reaches maturity. The form of 
lifestyling will not be prescribed but providers will be expected to follow a principles-based 
approach...  Providers will be required to manage the investment appropriately for the needs 
of the account holder. Unless otherwise notified by the investor, the presumption should be 
that the account holder will want to close the account at 18 or move the funds to a cash 
account; the account should therefore gradually be shifted from equities to investments such 
as gilts or cash as age 18 approaches. If the account holder indicates that he or she wants 
to continue investing the CTF funds in another equities-based product at age 18 there will be 
no need to move the funds out of equities.
So this indicates there wasnt a prescribed method of applying the lifestyling feature and 
rather it was for individual providers to decide the approach. But it was expected to be in 
keeping with principle-based approach of moving invested funds away from equities to gilts 
or cash as the maturity date of 18 years old came closer. Engage Mutual say its lifestyling 
feature planned to follow a method where 33% of the underlying fund would be moved
into a cash-based investment each year until the investment was fully moved to a low risk 
fund. I think a fixed rate bond fund is a reasonable comparative low risk fund to suggest for the purpose of the calculation. I also think for ease of calculation Engage Mutual can 
assume the proportion of funds that remain invested in equities are held in the current fund. 
Although I accept that the CTF would be moving providers, so would leave the current fund, I 
still think this is a fair comparison for the likely type of fund it would have been in with a new 
provider. 
When the CTF was taken out Mrs K said the intention was for the maturity proceeds to be 
used for Miss Ks university costs. But I understand the funds remain invested more than a 
year past Miss Ks 18th birthday  and therefore remain subject to fluctuations in the stock 
market. It is very difficult to know what would have happened if there were no errors by 
Engage Mutual. I acknowledge the points made by Miss K and Mrs K about not feeling they 
could move the investment due to the ongoing complaint. But Im also conscious that the key 
reason for the complaint is that they didnt want or expect the funds to be invested in the 
stock market at maturity.  The way to mitigate this risk would be to move the funds into to a 
safer environment. It also doesnt appear they have needed to access the funds. As the 
funds are still invested, I dont think it would be fair to crystallise any loss at the maturity date 
- Miss Ks 18th birthday. The current value of the fund is relevant as depending on the its 
performance since maturity this could increase or decrease any loss. For this reason, it is 
fair to use the current value of plan when calculating if there is a loss. Im aware the value of 
the account has increased substantially since maturity. This would not have been achieved if 
the funds had been moved as part of lifestyling. So for the purpose of the redress 
calculation, I think its fair to assume that the funds would remain invested in a low risk 
environment after maturity. 
Engage Mutual has previously said that it should be able to deduct the cost of annual 
management charges from the comparative investment. As my findings assume the CTF 
would move to another provider  I think it is reasonable to also assume that the account 
would have faced similar charges with the new provider. So I do think it is reasonable to take 
these into account.
Miss K and Mrs K responded to the provisional decision. In summary they said they were 
pleased that the complaint had been upheld but disagree with some of the findings  
specifically regarding their ability to move the funds into a safer investment and the 
application of annual management charges. 
They reiterated as they were not certain what the outcome of the complaint would be, they 
kept the money invested were it was. They have experienced delay, which culminating in 
Engage Mutual withdrawing its acceptance of the investigators opinion.  They dont think 
the basis of using the value of the fund now, rather than when Miss K turned 18 years old is 
fair. During the time since Miss K turned 18, Mrs K has reduced her mortgage payments to 
cover her costs. Miss K has also missed out on other investment opportunities where she 
can choose herself the level of risk she wants to take i.e. she has a Lifetime ISA (LISA) 
which gives a 25% uplift to any funds saved  and she didnt have the full funds to invest last 
tax year due to this dispute. They feel Engage Mutuals gamble in delaying the decision of 
this case as long as possible has paid off.
Engage Mutual accepted my provisional findings. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reviewed the further comments and arguments Miss K and Mrs K have provided in 
respect of the calculation of compensation, but they havent led me to change the outcome I 
set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Miss K and Mrs K have suggested that Engage Mutual has delayed the decision on 
the complaint to their advantage. While I do understand why they may think that to be the 
case, this point hasnt impacted my decision making on what is a fair outcome. The value of 
the policy can move in both directions  leading to a higher or lesser loss. What my decision 
is concerned about is the impact of any failings and how best to put Miss K back in the 
position she would be in but for them. While it is unfortunate that it has taken longer than 
anyone would hope to resolve this complaint, I think the redress calculation Ive proposed 
fairly takes into account all of the circumstances to allow a fair calculation that as close as 
possible puts Miss K back in the position she would be but for the failings Ive identified.
Miss K and Mrs K believe the comparative calculation should be completed up until Miss Ks 
18th birthday.  They dont think its fair to use the current value. But I dont think I can ignore 
the fact the funds have remained invested. If the loss was to be crystallised at Miss Ks 18th 
birthday, she would either benefit or lose out from the movement of the investment since 
then. For example, if the CTF had lost significantly more value since Miss K turned 18, there 
is a good argument to say it wouldnt be fair to say she should accept that further loss. The 
fact it currently appears to have gained in value doesnt mean it is unfair to take this into 
account. Had the funds been moved on or around Miss Ks 18th birthday, there would be a 
stronger argument to crystallise the loss at that date as there would be more certainty on the 
financial impact of the lifestyling feature not being applied.  
Its difficult to say precisely what would have happened if things had happened as they 
should have in respect of the lifestyling feature. The circumstances of why the funds remain 
invested are unusual. Miss K and Mrs K have been consistent in saying they expected the 
CTF to be moved away from higher risk investments but felt it necessary to leave the funds 
untouched while the complaint was progressing. Ive accepted this explanation. But in taking 
this decision they were exposing the risk of the investment falling further and / or the 
complaint not being upheld. I havent seen anything to say Engage Mutual prevented Miss K 
from moving the funds. So, I dont think I can hold Engage Mutual responsible for Miss K 
missing out on other investment opportunities. I appreciate that they felt they were in a 
difficult position and have had to make some different financial decision as a result. But I 
dont think overall using the current valuation is treating Miss K unfairly. 
So, for these reasons and those explained in my provisional findings, I remain of the view 
that the compensation I set out in my provisional decision is the fairest way to calculate 
whether Miss K has suffered a loss. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Miss 
K as close to the position she would probably now be in if adequate notice of the removal of 
the lifestyling feature was provided.
I think the CTF would have been invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances when Engage Mutual removed the lifestyling feature. 
What should Engage Mutual do? 
To compensate Miss K fairly, Engage Mutual must:Compare the performance of the CTF since September 2017 with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)
for two thirds 
of the 
investment: 
Engage 
Mutual CTF 
fund; for the 
other third, 
the average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds4 September 
20173 September 
2018
for one third 
of the 
investment: 
Engage 
Mutual CTF 
fund; for the 
other two 
thirds: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bonds4 September 
20183 September 
2019CTF matured
The whole 
investment  - 
the average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds4 September 
2019date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the settlement date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the settlement date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Engage Mutual 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:Miss K wanted to retain the lifestyle feature that was included in the CTF when it was 
taken out. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given the purpose of the 
lifestyling feature. It does not mean that the CTF would have invested only in a fixed rate 
bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little risk to 
their capital and in line with the purpose of the lifestyling feature.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Engage Mutual Funds Limited should pay 
any loss amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman