DRN-3416937
The complaint
Mr S complains British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
HomeCare policy
What happened
Mr S had boiler insurance with British Gas. As part of that he received a service. In 
2020, when British Gas serviced the boiler, it said it was dangerous, and couldnt be 
repaired. It said it would need to be replaced. 
Mr S thought the boiler could be repaired and he hired someone to do so. So he later 
submitted a claim to British Gas for the cost of the repair. British Gas didnt agree to 
cover the claim, it didnt think the repair would meet its safety standards. It did offer £50 
compensation for delays in responding to the complaint and a further amount for the 
premiums Mr S paid after the policy was cancelled.
Mr S didnt accept that, he was looking for around £450 total compensation. So he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought British Gas had acted reasonably in not covering the claim, so 
he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said his 
own contractor had carried out the repair easily, he said British Gas hadnt excluded his 
type of repair from its policy, so it should have carried it out. He also thought British Gas 
should appoint someone independent to review the boiler.
As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided extensive information in relation to his case. As this is an informal 
service I wont comment on all of it. My decision will focus on the key reasons for the 
outcome Ive reached. But Id like to reassure Mr S Ive considered everything hes 
provided, and I thank him for doing so.
Ultimately, I need to decide if British Gas acted unfairly in not carrying out a repair to Mr 
S boiler. There is clearly a difference of opinion between the two parties here. When this 
happens, my role is to decide which evidence I find most persuasive. In this instance, Im 
more persuaded by the evidence provided by British Gas, Ill explain why below.
Mr S policy does cover him for boiler repairs. But the policy also allows for a situation 
when a repair cant be carried out. If that is the case, British Gas will replace the boiler if 
its under a certain age. The policy also says if it cant get replacement parts, British Gas 
may need to cancel the agreement, which is what happened in this instance. So whilst 
Mr S strongly believes British Gas are in breach of their policy, Im not persuaded thats 
the case.
British Gas has said the casing to the boiler needs replacing as the rivets keeping it 
together (and keeping an airtight seal) have corroded. Its said a new case would need 
to be fitted and its not possible to get a replacement casing from the manufacturer. So a 
repair couldnt be carried out.   
Mr S has disputed this, but he hasnt provided me any information which persuades me 
British Gas is incorrect in what its said. I accept hes provided his own invoice for the 
repair, and hes satisfied the repairer was a gas safe engineer. But Ive seen no report or 
evidence from Mr S contractor which persuades me British Gas acted unfairly in not 
carrying out a repair. It seems Mr S contractor fixed the original case by fitting new 
rivets. This doesnt persuade me British Gas should have taken this action. Its provided 
reasons why it doesnt think a repair was appropriate, and I consider those to be 
reasonable. And as Mr S no longer has a policy with British Gas, its not obliged to now 
appoint someone independent to review the safety of his boiler.  
There was some delay in Mr S receiving the refund he should have from British Gas 
after the policy was cancelled. Im satisfied this has been resolved. British Gas has also 
offered £50 compensation for some delays in responding to Mr S. Having considered 
everything, Im not going to ask British Gas to increase this. Mr S has clearly spent a lot 
of time in preparing his complaint to both British Gas and this service, but that isnt 
something this service would award compensation for. 
I accept Mr S was without gas for a number of months as British Gas capped the boiler, 
but as I think it acted reasonably in doing so, any inconvenience that stemmed from that 
is not the responsibility of British Gas. So it doesnt need to pay further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman