DRN-2614038
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was sent incorrect paperwork by Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as 
Sterling (Zurich) which delayed the surrender of his late mothers bond and caused a 
reduction in its value.
What happened
Mr Cs mother passed away in October 2019 and she held a Zurich investment bond. Mr C 
contacted Zurich to cease the monthly payments and to understand the steps required to 
close the bond. Zurich asked for the death certificate to be sent to them and that they would 
send forms to Mr C.
Zurich sent paperwork to Mr C but these were to set up new trustees for the bond and 
suggested that Mr C speak to a financial adviser. Mr C wasnt resident in the UK and did not 
want to set up new trustees as he was the sole beneficiary. Mr C says that he spoke to 
Zurich again who said that new forms would be issued.
On 3 February 2020, Mr C returned a Deed of Appointment which was the first stage of 
surrendering the bond. Zurich acknowledged this on 12 February and said that the surrender 
was being dealt with their Claims Agent.
Around 14 February 2020, Mr C says that he received additional forms which were 
addressed incorrectly and unfortunately, asked for Mr Cs late mother to sign. Mr C called 
Zurich who apologised and asked for the forms to be sent back. A surrender value of around 
£77,500 was provided at this point.
Mr C sent the forms back and Zurich processed the claim and the bond was surrendered on 
26 February 2020 with a value of £74,615.00.
Mr C complained to Zurich and asked why the surrender value was different from the 
amount provided on 14 February. Zurich investigated the complaint. They said that there 
were no surrender fees and they processed the claim once Mr C had sent the required 
paperwork. Zurich did not believe that they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr C referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at his complaint. The investigator didnt think that Zurich had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr C has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr C feels strongly about his complaint so I will 
explain why I have arrived at this decision.
Mr C and Zurich have provided further submissions to the service and I would like to thank 
them for providing me with this information. Zurich have said in their submission that they 
were not aware that Mr C remained unhappy from the issues that he initially raised with 
them. As Mr Cs letter to the service contained information on all correspondence, I will cover 
these points in my decision.
Mr Cs complaint relates to the documentation that he received from Zurich. Mr C says that 
their requests for additional information was unnecessary which caused delays and a 
reduction in the surrender value from the bond.
Mr C says that Zurich sent him forms that were addressed incorrectly and required his late 
mothers signature. In Zurichs response to this complaint, they said that a technical error 
had caused information to be taken from an old system and not their main administration 
centre. This meant that the database had not been updated to record Mr Cs mothers death 
and the address was wrong.
Zurich apologised for this and offered £50 in compensation for the distress caused and £5 
for the cost of Mr C having to call. I think that Zurich attempted to put things right following 
their errors and offered compensation in line with what the service would ask a business to 
do. Im not going to ask Zurich to do anything further.
Mr C says that the forms that were sent around 14 February were not required but he was 
told to return them anyway. In their submission, Zurich said that all forms submitted by Mr C 
were required in order to surrender the bond.
I have reviewed the forms that were submitted by Mr C and they include a Deed of 
Appointment and a Request for full or partial surrender form. 
The Deed of Appointment was necessary to record Mr C as having a beneficial interest in 
the bond. The Request for full or partial surrender form was used to capture Mr Cs details 
and this was the formal surrender request.
Having reviewed these forms, I think that they were necessary to process Mr Cs request. I 
believe that it would not have been possible for Zurich to process the surrender request 
without them.
Mr C says that the surrender value was £77,500 when he first enquired but received only 
£74,615.00. Mr C says that the delay in receiving the other forms led to him receiving a 
lower surrender value. It may have been helpful for Zurich to have explained the complete 
process when Mr C called on 14 February but as the forms were required, I cant say that 
Zurich were responsible for any fall in the value of the bond until the Request for full or 
partial surrender form was received.
Zurich processed this form on the day it was received. I think that they have acted fairly in 
processing the request and Im not going to ask if them to do anything further.
Mr C has said that Zurichs reliance on postal service was highly bureaucratic and that 
acceptance of email return of forms would have been better especially when dealing with 
overseas clients. Although I sympathise with Mr C, the service cant tell firms how their 
business should be run.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman