DRN-1188606
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Leeds Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992, to cover Mr M. Mr and Mrs M 
paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was 28 years ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So I think its 
understandable that neither side still have all the original documents from the time. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Leeds were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ms data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Mr M said he was given the impression he had to take PPI, 
though he also said he couldnt recall any conversations in detail. I think thats also 
understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable, and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Leeds to have misled Mr and Mrs M into buying 
PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats what it did here. From what I can see, it 
looks like in order to get the policy Mr and Mrs M wouldve specifically applied for it, 
separately to applying for the mortgage itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage 
application. Ive not seen any wider problems with Leeds sales process from the time, nor 
any evidence to show it departed from its normal process here. So I dont think I have a fair 
basis on which to conclude that Leeds misled Mr and Mrs M. I think its more likely that it 
followed a relatively normal sales process, offered Mr and Mrs M a fair choice about buying 
PPI, and they chose to take it at the time  though I can certainly understand if they no 
longer recall doing so after so many years.
Leeds recommended the PPI for Mr M, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr M 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.Mr M didnt recall having any alternative cover in case he was off sick or lost his job, which 
wouldve potentially left him at serious risk if he hadnt taken PPI. I understand Mr and 
Mrs Ms family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility, not 
anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Leeds to have recommended 
they rely on other people to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs M had fallen 
behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it seems reasonable for them to 
have taken out PPI to protect their home and provide some peace of mind.
Its not clear how much information Leeds gave Mr and Mrs M. So its possible that the 
information Leeds gave them about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The question, 
then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their minds. But as 
I explained above, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, 
and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs M in case something went wrong. And the 
PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs M could cancel it at any time without 
a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking 
out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman