DRN-2746930
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him incorrect information about a credit into his 
account and that this payment dispute has resulted in financial loss for him.
What happened
Mr M says he received a payment of £1,200 for the sale of a phone on 29 December 2019. 
He phoned Lloyds and it told him that this money was available. And so, he released the 
item to the buyer. But Lloyds later told him the credit was a cheque which then was returned 
unpaid. He wants Lloyds to compensate him for his loss.
Lloyds issued two responses about his complaint. It accepts that in the first it wrongly told  
Mr M that he was only told that the credit was a cheque that would take time to clear. It 
corrected this and said it accepts that it told Mr M in a first call that the money was ready to 
use but not that it was a faster payment as hed claimed it did. It offered him £50 in 
compensation for the misinformation but said that the cheque was stopped by the sender not 
Lloyds. And that Mr M would need to contact that person for the payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do anything further. He said that Mr M had 
phoned Lloyds back within an hour of his first call. And so, he must have been uncertain 
about the payment. Lloyds didnt know that the cheque would be stopped. Mr M hadnt made 
a payment of any of this money from his account until he sent a faster payment of £320 at 
17:30 the next day. And by then he knew that this was money from a cheque that mightnt 
clear.
Mr M who is represented in this complaint didnt agree. He didnt think that referring to 
subsequent calls was relevant. Mr M relied on what he had first been told by Lloyds and the 
item changed hands. If he had known that this was a cheque transaction he wouldnt have 
gone ahead.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to explain my reasoning about this complaint on 5 March 
2021. I set out below what I said.
I explained that Lloyds has now provided a copy of the cheque made out to Mr M dated 28 
December 2019. It has provided a systems entry to show that this was credited to his 
account using the Lloyds mobile app at 12:27:35 (hours, minutes, seconds) on Sunday 29 
December 2019. It has also shown in the same report that the faster payment of £320 from 
Mr Ms account was made at 17:30 the next day.
Mr M wasnt able to provide evidence that he had a phone to sell including any receipt for its 
purchase. He said he obtained this in October 2019. He provided some screenshots of 
social media messages he says were with the buyer about that person coming to collect the 
phone on 29 December 2019. Clearly those are difficult to verify, and he doesnt, by nature 
of the way he says this transaction took place, have any receipt for the sale either.
I was satisfied based on what Ive seen that the cheque was deposited using mobile imaging 
on the Lloyds app while Mr M was logged in. It couldnt have been paid in using someone 
elses phone or alternatively say at a branch as had previously been suggested. There are 
two explanations of how this happened  either Mr M scanned the cheque, or he allowed a 
third-party access to his phone and app to do so while logged in. In any event I thought he 
was responsible for how this credit was paid into his account and ought reasonably to have 
been aware that this was by cheque had he taken care of his security information.
I gave the time of that credit to the nearest second above because Lloyds records his first 
call about this soon after at 12:35. And the person he spoke to said that although he could 
see the credit the system mightnt have updated yet. That person was also responding to 
being told by Mr M that someone had sent him the money.  I didnt know exactly what that 
person could then see but I thought its likely that the nature of this payment hadnt been 
updated in Lloyds systems. I said this because at 13:38 when Mr M called again the person 
he then spoke to was able to tell him that this was a cheque and it wouldnt be available 
funds until 1 January 2020. Mr M called later at 21:04 that day and again on subsequent 
days about this payment.
The arrangements under which Mr M came to receive this payment were between him and 
the person who provided the cheque. That person clearly stopped the payment which wasnt 
something within Lloyds control. The method of payment as I said ought reasonably to have 
been known to Mr M but if it wasnt I dont think I can hold Lloyds responsible for the 
consequences of that. And it does seem that from the offset Mr M had doubts which werent 
satisfied in the first call with Lloyds and which led to him calling again. 
And I said that even if I was to think Lloyds might be responsible for a potential loss Id then 
need to be satisfied what that loss was. Mr M has been unable to show he had a phone to 
sell, when he obtained it and how much he paid for it. As our investigator says he sent some 
of the money on the next day although I am not clear what that related to. But by then he 
knew that the payment of £1,200 wasnt guaranteed.
Lloyds has paid Mr M £50 for providing the misinformation and given what Id said I thought 
that this is reasonable. I said I wouldnt be making any other award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds didnt make any comments or provide any further evidence.
Mr M didnt agree. He disputed that this was a cheque paid in using the mobile app. And he 
provided a screenshot from the app which he says indicated it was paid in at a branch. He 
said the narrative should state it this was a mobile payment. He maintained that incorrect 
information had been provided to a vulnerable customer. He couldnt see why we still wanted 
to know how Mr M obtained the phone and that this was a legitimate transaction. Mr M said 
that this was glossing over the error by Lloyds. He provided again what he said was 
evidence of the sale of the phone and missed calls about it from a social media screen shot.
Im afraid that I dont accept Mr Ms assertion that this could only be a cheque paid in using 
the mobile app if it stated so on the app. Frankly the entries he refers to doesnt state that 
this was a cheque. The branch detail given appears to be his own branch. 
The reason I asked Lloyds about the payment was because I was unclear how as Mr M 
maintained the person paying him the money could have done so by cheque when the transaction he says happened on a Sunday. Ive seen an audit log from Lloyds showing that 
the cheque was paid in on Sunday and Lloyds has explained that this was using the app. Im 
satisfied with that and as I explained in my provisional decision thought that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been aware of this.
That puts the incorrect information provided to Mr M into context as does the specific 
question he asked the person he spoke to at Lloyds about the payment and which I set out 
above. 
If I was to find that Lloyds was to be responsible for a loss then Id have gone onto to 
consider whether there was an actual loss. I didnt need to do so but I thought it was helpful 
to set out that even if I had Mr M hadnt evidenced a loss. He would need to have done so 
and I wouldnt have been able to verify the social media messages he provided.
So, having considered carefully the further comments and evidence I dont see a basis to 
depart from my original conclusions and I rely on the same reasons for those.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC need 
take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman