DRN-2949249
The complaint
Mrs L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited continued to charge full premiums for her 
private health insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L held a private health insurance policy with BUPA. The policy was due to renew on 
18 April 2020 for a year. Mrs L got in touch with BUPA on 1 April 2020 as she didnt think the 
premiums BUPA continued to charge reflected the loss of services during the Covid-19 
global pandemic.
Mrs L also had booked a mammogram in February 2020 for 7 May 2020 which was pre-
authorised by BUPA. This was cancelled by the hospital as it had been taken over by the 
NHS due to the pandemic. Mrs L had previously been diagnosed with breast cancer during 
an annual mammogram, so having to delay this was extremely stressful for her.
BUPA wrote to Mrs L on 8 July 2020 to say that all private treatment could now resume with 
a very small number of independent hospitals continuing to provide solely NHS care. But 
when Mrs L phoned her local hospital to re-book her mammogram, she found that the 
hospital had an exclusive agreement with the NHS until end of July 2020, with a rolling 
monthly contract afterwards.
Following this, Mrs L had her mammogram on the NHS (instead of privately through BUPA) 
on 15 July 2020. She says that had BUPA told her how long her local hospital was only 
providing treatment under the NHS, she wouldve done this sooner instead of waiting to have 
her mammogram privately.
Mrs L cancelled her policy with BUPA on 1 August 2020. She wants BUPA to compensate 
her for the loss of services during the pandemic.
BUPA acknowledged in its final response letter that independent hospitals were offering their 
resources to help the NHS to treat the affected patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
BUPA explained it had made some changes to the way the policy worked, such as 
introducing a new cash benefit for patients receiving NHS treatment for Covid-19 as well as 
providing remote consultations. 
BUPA said it wasnt offering to reduce or stop collecting premiums, as this ensured 
policyholders had the right cover in place once treatments were available again. But it 
assured Mrs L that any profit BUPA made from the unprecedented situation would be given 
back to its customers in the form of a rebate or other appropriate means. It said that it would 
be carrying out an independent review into this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that the Covid-19 global 
pandemic impacted private services that independent hospitals were able to offer, but she 
thought this was outside of BUPAs control. She also noted that BUPA had enhanced other 
services that were available. 
Our investigator also noted the independent review that BUPA was intending to commission, 
and the impact that would have on its customers. Overall, our investigator thought BUPA 
had acted fairly and reasonable in the unexpected circumstances.
Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, shes not happy that BUPA 
wasnt upfront with her about the exclusive agreement her local hospital had entered into 
with NHS, and how long this was for. She doesnt think it was unreasonable for her to ask 
BUPA to put her premiums on hold, or reduce them, while it couldnt provide any treatment.
As no agreement was reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ls concern about having to pay the full premium for her policy during the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. Independent hospital 
resources were needed to support the NHS and this had an impact on the private services 
that they were able to offer. But I dont think this is something I can hold BUPA responsible 
for, as the circumstances were outside of its control. BUPA also enhanced some of its 
services while others werent available. 
Mrs L spoke with BUPA in June 2020 about potential treatment. BUPA said that once Mrs L 
had a diagnosis, further treatment could potentially be covered if it was eligible under the 
terms of the policy. BUPA also confirmed that diagnostic tests would be covered under the 
policy.
Mrs L also told BUPA during this call that she was still waiting for a mammogram, and BUPA 
tried to look for alternative hospitals near Mrs L that could offer this. Unfortunately, it looked 
like it wasnt possible at the time, so BUPA encouraged Mrs L to keep checking the situation 
regularly. 
I appreciate how worrying this must have been for Mrs L, given her previous medical history. 
But I do think BUPA did what it could to try and help her by checking if treatment was 
available at the time at different hospitals near Mrs L.
While I appreciate theres been an impact on the services BUPAs been able to provide, Im 
satisfied Mrs L benefitted from having cover in place in case she needed to make a claim for 
any eligible treatment. She was also able to continue her underwritten cover. This means 
there was no break in cover, or a change in the underwriting terms.
BUPA also explained to Mrs L that it would review the impact of the pandemic on all its 
customers, and what that would mean for its customers. 
Taking everything into account, I think what BUPA has done is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Finally, I understand BUPA has concluded the review and its been touch with Mrs L about 
the outcome. BUPA has published more information about this which is available on its 
website. If Mrs L remains unhappy with the outcome of the review on her own policy, she 
can make a further complaint about this to our service, once shes first given BUPA the 
opportunity to respond to her concerns.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman