DRN-1645254
The complaint
Mr H complains about his overdraft arrangement with Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and 
the charges on it. He says he doesnt remember agreeing to it and thinks RBS should have 
made account monitoring tools available sooner as this would have reduced charges.
What happened
Mr H says he made a series of complaints to RBS about his overdraft and charges over 
several years. Mr H made a further complaint to RBS in 2019 in relation to receiving text 
message alerts about the overdraft. He says if RBS had made a text message notification 
service available to him sooner he would have paid less in charges.
RBS said the fees and interest charged were set out in the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) 
and had been correctly applied. It said he hadnt been charged any unarranged borrowing 
fees in the recent past. It said the text notification system was an optional service and not a 
substitute for Mr H managing his account. It suggested that he use mobile banking to assist 
him in this. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. He said the overdraft dated back to 1999 when he 
wanted to arrange a loan with RBS. Mr H says he made complaints about the overdraft in 
the past but wasnt taken seriously. He said RBS was charging more for the overdraft than in 
the past as there was a fee as well as interest. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said records werent available as far back as 
1999 but showed an overdraft was available in March 2004. Since 2013 Mr H had been 
consistently overdrawn and near the overdraft limit in most months. RBS said Mr H was 
charged interest and an Arranged Overdraft Fee (AOF) of £6 per month since 2013. It says 
between 2013 and 2017 it refunded £1,387.17 in charges as goodwill gestures. RBS says 
interest and fees were correctly charged and clearly set out in the T&Cs. It said as Mr H has 
made previous complaints about charges, he was fully aware of them and the text message 
alert system was an optional extra for customers which couldnt be relied on in isolation. 
Our investigator said RBS hadnt done anything wrong. He said it was fair that a business 
could change how it charged for services and RBS had provided T&Cs explaining the 
charges and when they would be applied. He didnt think having access to the text 
notification system earlier would have changed anything given Mr Hs use of the overdraft. 
Mr H disagreed and said hed been struggling financially but hadnt mentioned this to RBS 
before. He also said that he might transfer funds from elsewhere and clear the overdraft. 
RBS said Mr Hs account had never been handled by its collections department, but if he 
was in any financial difficulty he should get in touch and provided contact details for a 
specialist team.
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Mr H has made several complaints about the overdraft. But RBS has been entitled to apply 
the charges that it has here, where its done so in line with the T&Cs. It was also entitled to 
change the structure of these charges, having given Mr H sufficient notice of these changes.
Nor do I think that RBS should necessarily have provided the text facility Mr H has 
mentioned any sooner than it did. Any measure like this is meant to help and support 
customers with their account, but its not to be relied upon  as customers should be keeping 
an eye on their accounts in other ways too. So while I realise Mr H would have liked for RBS 
to have provided this sooner, I dont think it was obliged to have done that here, where Mr H 
was able to access and monitor his account in other ways. And he was aware of the charges 
being applied, as he contacted RBS on several occasions about them.
Mr Hs complaints have been framed as relating to charges changing and access to account 
monitoring tools, but I was concerned that Mr H had also been complaining about financial 
difficulty. Particularly as he told our investigator hed been struggling financially.
For several years Mr H was close to his overdraft limit each month prior to what appeared to 
be the only payment into the account. This didnt clear the overdrawn balance. I could then 
see how the changes to overdrafts with possibly higher rates of interest from April 2020 
could impact on Mr Hs situation. 
But, in considering how RBS dealt with this, Ive also taken into account that RBS has 
refunded a large amount of interest and charges over some of the years they were applied. 
RBS wasnt obliged to take this step  so I think it was done with helping Mr H in mind. 
But, given what Mr H said about his financial position, I asked both Mr H and RBS for an 
update on the current situation. RBS confirmed that Mr H was no longer overdrawn. Soon 
after his conversation with our investigator Mr H cleared the overdraft from other funds and 
hasnt been overdrawn since. RBS also said it had discussed removing the overdraft or 
changing the account with Mr H in 2014. 
Mr H said that having taken financial advice in connection with a house move hed decided 
to access some of his pension and used this to clear the overdraft. This isnt something he 
would have been able to do before reaching the minimum age to draw pension benefits, so 
this option wasnt available to him until quite recently.
It may be that Mr H didnt fully appreciate the cost implications of the overdraft until 
discussing it with our investigator. But now that hes cleared his overdraft, the charges hes 
been unhappy with shouldnt be applied while his account is in credit. In any event, what 
RBS has done to date in helping Mr H is fair, so I wont be telling it that it needs to do any 
more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman