DRN-3693228
The complaint
Mr M complains about NewDay Ltds (NewDays), trading as Amazon Credit Card, handling 
of a chargeback claim he made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by NewDay, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. NewDay didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
It's clear that Mr M didnt book a room at the accommodation Ill call AM. His 
accommodation was booked at a property Ill call EH  thats in his booking confirmation.
When Mr M submitted evidence to NewDay about his chargeback claim he was unable to 
provide the booking form for his accommodation because NewDays system only allowed 
him to download one document. He did, however, explain in his submission that he had 
further evidence he wanted to submit.
The chargeback was defended by the merchant who said the relevant accommodation was 
provided and that Mr M had failed to cancel the booking within the seven days their terms 
dictated. 
Mastercard chargeback rules allowed NewDay to take the claim to pre-arbitration if the 
evidence from the merchant wasnt persuasive. I dont think the evidence from the merchant 
was persuasive because there was no confirmation in their submission that Mr M had 
booked a stay at AM as theyd suggested he had.
In those circumstances I think NewDay were unreasonable not to take the claim to pre-
arbitration. If theyd done that Mr M would have been able to submit further evidence. Ive 
not been provided with any Mastercard rules that prevented that, and I think its therefore 
likely Mr M would have provided the evidence hes provided this service with and that he 
also explained to NewDay during a call he had with them on 27 November 2021. That 
evidence clearly showed that what he booked was not what he was offered in the check in 
email he received only seven days before the stay was due to commence. 
In those circumstances I think NewDays actions were unreasonable.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might also be possible to make a section 75 claim. That section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Here Mr M provided information that 
suggested there had been a misrepresentation by the supplier as the property they had 
directed him to was not the one hed booked. 
It therefore seems there were also grounds for NewDay to explore a section 75 claim on    
Mr Ms behalf. So, even if Im wrong about NewDay being unreasonable not to arbitrate Mr 
Ms chargeback claim, I think it would have then been reasonable for them to raise a claim 
under section 75 for him. In that case Mr M would have had a further opportunity to present 
all of the relevant documentation. 
 
Putting things right
To remedy the situation, I think it would be fair for NewDay to compensate Mr M by 
refunding the £318.97 he paid for his accommodation. Theyll need to add interest to that 
refund as   Mr M has been deprived of the money since he paid it on 18 August 2021. 
I think Mr M has also experienced some distress and inconvenience here. Hes had, for 
instance, to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been dealt with 
earlier and he had a lengthy call with NewDay to explain his situation. I think if his claim had 
been properly investigated that wouldnt have been necessary. In the circumstances Im also 
asking NewDay to pay Mr M £50 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell NewDay Ltd to:
Refund Mr M £319.97 and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
(18 August 2021) to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr M £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman