DRN-4140312
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays on the part of Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) 
when dealing with the transfer of his ISA holdings, causing him financial loss.
What happened
Mr A held various investments in an ISA account with a financial business I will refer to as 
Company B. In early January 2022, he made online requests to transfer all his 
investments held with Company B into an IISL Stocks and Shares ISA. He initially wanted 
to transfer in specie  in other words, to move his existing investments to his new 
provider. But when Mr A found out that couldnt happen because IISL didnt support all his 
existing investments and so couldnt accept them, he changed his instructions. On 
24 January 2022, ultimately Mr A told Company B to sell all his investments and transfer 
the cash value to IISL.
As a result, IISL needed to request and obtain a new valuation  which it did straightaway. 
After a few days, frustrated with the lack of progress, Mr A sent IISL a secure message 
asking it to: PLEASE get this cash transferred urgently  I cannot think of any reason why 
transferring cash should take much time or effort.
Ultimately, IISL received around £25,000 from Company B on 3 February 2022 and the bulk 
of Mr As proceeds from the sale of his stocks and shares (a six figure amount) was received 
on 9 February 2022. 
Mr A instructed trades which were actioned on 10 February 2022.
Mr A told IISL that he was unhappy about the length of time it had taken for his transfer to 
complete and said that the delay caused him to lose out financially as hed been unable to 
re-invest his money sooner.
IISL responded to Mr As complaint saying it was not responsible for the delays 
encountered during the transfer or for any financial loss he wanted IISL to cover.
This prompted Mr A to bring his complaint to us and an investigator at this service 
considered the complaint. After looking into what happened, the investigator said he was 
confident that IISL had acted fairly and reasonably and so he wasnt proposing to ask it to 
do anything more. 
IISL accepted the investigators findings but Mr A didnt agree. He mainly felt that the 
investigator hadnt understood the focus of his complaint and he didnt think the investigator 
had fully reviewed all the evidence he had submitted. So this matter has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
At the Financial Ombudsman Service, our role is to consider complaints brought to us and, 
based on the evidence provided, establish whether the business complained of has acted 
in a way thats been fair and reasonable. Id like to reassure Mr A that whilst I have 
sometimes summarised the main points in my own words, Ive considered everything both 
sides have provided. We provide an informal service as a free alternative to the courts and 
this is reflected in my approach. No discourtesy is intended if I do not address every point 
raised. I will deal with everything that affects the outcome and focus on what Mr A has said 
is the core issue. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr A told us that: My complaint relates to the errors 
and consequent delays in the period from when I instructed (Company B) to sell all the 
investments and notified Interactive Investor that I had done so.
By way of background, when Mr A initially instructed the transfer, he told IISL that he 
didnt want any of his investments sold for cash and any investment IISL couldnt hold 
should be left with Company B. Within a week or so, IISL had advised Mr A that some of 
his investments werent supported on its platform and it could offer him no alternative 
share classes  at this stage, Mr A decided to sell all his investments and transfer the 
cash proceeds. 
I have kept in mind that HM Revenue and Customs guidelines say:
ISA transfers should take no longer than:
15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs
30 calendar days for other types of transfer'  
Here, although Mr A made an initial transfer request earlier in January 2022, it wasnt until 
24 January 2022 that he confirmed his transfer instructions. When he told Company B to 
sell all his investments and transfer the cash proceeds to IISL this instruction replaced what 
hed originally told IISL and Company B he wanted to happen. So, effectively, this started 
the clock ticking with regard to the transfer timetable.
On 4 February 2022, IISL sent a message to Mr A confirming that some of his expected 
cash (around £25,000) was now available to him. Both parties agree that by 
9 February 2022, transfers to Mr As account had completed and he had access to his 
money. Mr A gave instructions for the trades he wanted to carry out  which were 
effected the next day. 
I've taken into account that Mr A says: In my opinion there should have been no reason 
why the cash could not have been transferred almost immediately after the sales had 
settled, so in the week of 24 January.
But I think this is to misunderstand what was involved in the transfer process. Mr A has 
described the process as overly bureaucratic, but it wasnt simply a case of IISL needing 
to provide bank details to Company B once his stocks and shares were sold. In very brief summary, as part of the transfer process Company B needed to provide IISL 
with accurate valuations of the transfer amounts  this meant updated valuations were 
required when Mr A changed his instructions and when assets were sold. 
His investments were set up as four sub-accounts held under different account numbers 
so this involved four transfer requests. I think it was reasonable that IISL wanted to 
double check with Company B when a valuation it provided fell a long way short of the 
figure IISL expected to see - and it was in Mr As best interests that it did so, in order to 
facilitate the transfer process and ensure he received the full amount he was due. 
These ISA transfers were done electronically via a software system used by IISL and 
Company B. Both parties had to complete their own part of the shared process and the 
figures had to match  IISL wasnt able to accept a cash value that was higher than the 
quoted valuation for instance. It looks like some cash amounts received from Company B 
didnt correspond with the amounts it had listed on the valuation. This resulted in IISL 
needing to make further enquiries before these amounts could be applied to Mr As 
account so that Mr A was able to start trading. 
Keeping all this in mind, I dont think the overall time taken for the transfers from 
Company B to IISL was unreasonable, bearing in mind this was done within the 
timescales set out by HM Revenue and Customs.  
For me to establish that IISL are responsible for any losses Mr A has suffered, I need to find 
that IISL did something wrong or failed to do something which resulted in avoidable delays 
during the transfer process that impacted on Mr A causing him detriment or financial loss. 
For all the reasons I have set out above, I cant fairly make such a finding here. Looked at 
overall, I cant see that IISL made any error that added significantly to the time taken for the 
matter to complete and the transfer completed within a reasonable timescale. So I dont find 
I have seen enough to be able to uphold this complaint against IISL. It follows that I cant 
award the compensation Mr A is seeking.  
As it has been a particular concern for Mr A, for information purposes only I would just 
mention that, in order to award redress for loss of opportunity or investment loss, Id need to 
see evidence showing that actual planned trades were frustrated by lack of available funds 
at IISL  and that this was IISLs fault. The evidence submitted by Mr A wouldnt support 
such a finding here. But to be clear, I couldnt make any award in this instance as I havent 
upheld the complaint. 
In coming to my decision, I am aware that Mr A mentioned a number of issues I have not 
addressed directly  including his concern that IISL failed to telephone Company B having 
promised Mr A it would do so, IISLs mistaken reference in an email to a financial provider 
unrelated to this transfer and the number of emails he was receiving about stocks and 
shares when he understood these had been sold as well as not receiving call backs from 
IISL. I can see that IISL apologised for referring to the wrong business and for any 
confusion or frustration the transfer was causing Mr A  it explained that a valuation refers 
to the total list of assets held in Mr As account and why this needed to be updated each 
time there was a sale of Mr As invested assets. It appears IISL did try unsuccessfully on 
occasion to reach Mr A by phone. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised because 
its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case which is fair and 
reasonable overall. All in all, whilst I've thought about everything Mr A has told us, none of 
these other issues or anything else he has said affects the outcome of his complaint, for the 
reasons I have set out fully above. I appreciate the whole experience was frustrating and stressful for Mr A, particularly as this 
wasnt the transfer he originally had in mind when he began the process. He had to adapt 
his plans once hed set things in motion which meant the transfer had to start over and so 
Mr A had a longer wait before his money was invested again. But I hope that setting things 
out as I've done is helpful in explaining how I've reached my decision and that Mr A can feel 
assured that his complaint has been fully considered by this service, even if we havent 
been able to provide the outcome he hoped for on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Interactive Investor 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman