DRN-3310979
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc failed to recover funds she transferred to a third 
party by mistake. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs C transferred £100 from her account to a third party  who Ill refer to as 
L. Shortly afterwards, Mrs C contacted Santander to let them know this was a mistake and 
that shed selected the wrong payee on her account. 
Santander said it would contact Ls bank  who Ill refer to as H  to try recover the funds. It 
says H agreed to ringfence the money and contact L. 
In the meantime, Mrs C let L know what had happened. And L agreed to transfer the £100 
back, which they did. But as H had ringfenced the funds from the initial transfer to prevent L 
from spending it, L was now out of pocket. So Mrs C transferred L another £100 and tried to 
recover the original £100 from Santander. 
Santander says it doesnt have the £100 because H had it ringfenced. It sent an email to H 
asking them to release the money to L as the problem had now been resolved. But Mrs C 
says this didnt happen and she is now £100 out of pocket. She brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Santander had followed the 
correct process to recover the money. And as Mrs C was able to get it back directly from L, 
he thought Santander were correct to close the case. He suggested Mrs C pursue a 
complaint against H if the money hadnt been released.
Mrs C didnt accept this. She didnt want to pursue a complaint against H, because she 
believes H sent the money back to Santander and that it should return the funds to her. So 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C sent £100 to L by the faster payments method, which means it wouldve been 
credited to the third partys account almost instantly. The faster payments rules say faster 
payments, once sent, cannot be cancelled. So even though Mrs C called Santander straight 
away when shed realised her mistake, it couldnt have stopped the payment.
In these circumstances, wed expect Santander to do what was required to try to get the 
money back. Here we look to the Payment Services Regulations  which say that a bank 
should take "reasonable steps" to recover funds that have been mistakenly applied to an 
account. And there are industry standards for recalling faster payments which Ill set out 
below.
Bank and building societies in the UK that offer faster payments follow procedures known
as the credit payment recovery process, that set out the help they must offer customers
that have accidentally made a mistake when sending a payment. These say:
When you notify your bank or building society that you have made an electronic 
payment to the wrong account, your bank will commence action on your behalf within 
a maximum of two working days.
Where your bank finds clear evidence of a genuine mistake, they will contact the 
receiving bank on your behalf with a request to prevent the money being mistakenly 
spent. As long as the recipient does not dispute your claim, you will subsequently 
receive a refund of the protected funds within 20 working days from when you 
notified your bank.
In cases where the circumstances of the claim are not clear cut, your bank will still 
contact the receiving bank on your behalf. The recipient will be contacted by their 
bank to ask for consent to debit their account. No funds would be removed without 
the consent of the receiving customer.
If it is not possible to reclaim a payment you have sent in error  for instance if the 
recipient disputes its return  you will be notified of the outcome within 20 working 
days from the point of your enquiry and in many cases much sooner.
If funds cannot be recovered through the standard central process your bank will give 
you clear and accurate information on the options you have available  such as court 
action against the recipient.
The industry procedures do not change the legal rights and responsibilities of you, 
your bank or the recipient of the funds. Anyone that intentionally spends money that 
does not belong to them is committing a crime, which can be reported to the police. 
Mrs C made this transaction on 3 August 2021 and she notified Santander the same day. I 
can see that it took immediate action to notify H. And H informed Santander that it would 
ringfence the funds and contact L. This is the correct process as set out in the industry 
guidelines above. 
Mrs C then contacted L directly, who transferred the money back on 4 August 2021  a day 
later. Whilst its not wrong for Mrs C to try and resolve the problem herself, it has caused 
some confusion as Santander and H were in the process of recovering the money and Mrs C 
hadnt given it enough time to do so. 
Its also not clear if Mrs C told Santander that she was going to try to get the money back 
herself. As if she had done so, it may have informed her to wait until it had finished going 
through the recovery process. Or it may have waited to see if Mrs C could resolve things 
herself before it took any action. The problem has arisen when both Santander and Mrs C 
have both tried to recover the funds separately.
L informed Mrs C that H hadnt released the funds and theyd been left out of pocket by 
£100. Mrs C tells us she felt bad for L as this was her mistake. So on 14 August 2021, she 
transferred £100 to L. She then contacted Santander asking it to release the original funds 
back to her. 
Again, whilst Mrs C wasnt wrong in her actions and I understand why she did this, I do think 
it wouldve been sensible for her to have discussed it with Santander before doing so. It does 
appear to have caused more confusion and Santander couldve looked into where the funds 
were before Mrs C put herself out of pocket. I understand Mrs C now wishes for Santander to return the original £100. But it says this 
remains with H and that it has told them to release the funds as the matter is resolved. I 
havent seen anything to suggest Santander were able to recover the money back from H  
as if it had, this wouldve been credited to Mrs Cs account. So I cant fairly ask Santander to 
do anything more to resolve this. 
I would suggest that, if the funds still havent been released to L, contact is made with H  
either by L or Mrs C herself. Either party can raise a complaint to H, which can be brought to 
our service to consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman