DRN-4013461
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr A and Mrs G hold with Santander UK Plc. They are 
unhappy that Santander:
declined a term extension;
refused to switch the mortgage to interest-only;
said it couldnt offer additional lending.
To settle the complaint, Mr A and Mrs G would like Santander to extend the mortgage term, 
convert the mortgage to interest-only and agree to additional lending.
What happened
I will begin by clarifying the scope of this decision. Mr A and Mrs G have raised with us a 
number of complaints about the way Santander has dealt with their mortgage, and about 
how the bank handled their complaints. 
On 11 April 2023 I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained that I would only be 
considering the issues listed above, and gave my reasons for this. I will therefore not be 
addressing any other matters about which Mr A and Mrs G are dissatisfied, as I have no 
legal power to do so.
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. The issues are quite straightforward and 
what has happened isnt really in dispute. Rather, it is the fairness (or unfairness) of what 
Santander has done that Mr A and Mrs G are unhappy about. 
I will therefore concentrate on this aspect of the complaint when giving the reasons for my 
decision. Also, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information 
that might lead to Mr A and Mrs G being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my 
summary of what happened quite brief.
The events giving rise to this complaint took place in September 2022. Mr A and Mrs Gs 
mortgage with Santander was on a seven-year capital repayment fixed interest rate product 
taken out in 2015 that was due to come to an end in January 2023. There was just over ten 
years left on the mortgage term, which was due to end in October 2032. 
On 9 September 2022 Mr A and Mrs G discussed their mortgage with Santander. They 
wanted to extend the mortgage term and switch the mortgage to interest-only. However, 
because Mrs G was at that time 74 years of age, Santander explained that this was outside 
the banks lending criteria, because its upper age limit for an interest-only mortgage was 70. 
Santander also wasnt able to extend the term on a capital repayment basis, because the 
upper age limit for this was 75.
Mr A and Mrs G werent happy about this and complained. Santander issued its final 
response letter dated 9 September 2022 explaining that it was not possible to extend the 
mortgage term, due to Santanders upper age limit, and that a switch to interest-only was 
also not possible due to lending criteria. 
Santander said that any application for a change of repayment type, term extension or 
further advance was subject to meeting Santanders lending criteria. Santander reiterated 
that its lending policy was to set an upper age limit of 75 for a repayment mortgage applicant 
and 70 for an interest-only mortgage applicant.
On 16 September 2022 Santander issued a new product transfer offer on a capital 
repayment basis, switching the mortgage onto a new fixed interest rate product until 
2 December 2024, with the remaining term being 10 years 1 month from September 2022. 
Mr A and Mrs G accepted this offer on 28 September 2022. (I note here that  by the end of 
the mortgage term, Mr A will be 67 years of age, and will by that point have recently reached 
State Pension age, based on current State Pension criteria.)
On 12 November 2022 Mr A and Mrs G raised their complaint with our service. As I said 
above, other complaints were also raised, but these do not fall within our jurisdiction.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but was satisfied that Santander hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining a term extension or a switch to interest-only. Because Mr A and Mrs G 
didnt meet Santanders lending criteria, the bank wasnt required to make the changes to 
the mortgage that Mr A and Mrs G wanted.
Mr A and Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Theyve made some 
further points, which I summarise below:
Mr A is the main breadwinner as Mrs G is now 75. 
Mr A has a very secure job and will be paying the mortgage until the end of the term;
they have over £300,000 equity and, although the easier option would be to downsize, 
they love the house and wish to remain living in it;
they would like an interest-only mortgage, possibly with a top up (further advance) and 
a term extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr A and Mrs G took out their mortgage, they agreed to repay it at the end of the 
specified term. However, Id expect Santander to give fair consideration to their request to 
extend the term and convert it to interest-only.
Santander has explained that it wasnt possible to convert the mortgage to interest-only 
because Mrs A was over its upper age limit of 70 years for interest-only borrowers. Similarly, 
Santander wasnt able to extend the mortgage term on a capital repayment basis, because 
its upper age limit for this was 75 years.
(I will add here that I havent considered whether or not Mr A and Mrs G had any credible 
repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage  which was also something Santander 
would have required if the application  had been able to proceed. Thats because Mr A and Mrs G fell at the first hurdle and werent able to overcome the age requirement  and so 
Santander never considered whether or not they would have fulfilled any other part of its 
interest-only lending criteria.)
Age is a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010, and those provisions came 
into force on 1 October 2012. Prior to that date, there was no restriction on lenders using 
age as a factor in their decision making. After 1 October 2012, where businesses have 
carried out a risk assessment based on age, the business must base its assessment on 
relevant information from a source on which its reasonable to rely.
Santander has provided its lending criteria, and information from its Legal Department 
relating to compliance with the Equality Act 2010. Im entitled to accept this information in 
confidence, because it is commercially sensitive. But Im satisfied that Santander correctly 
applied its lending criteria to Mr A and Mrs Gs requests to convert the mortgage to interest-
only and extend the term (either on a repayment or interest-only basis).
Mrs G has explained that her main focus is to remain living in her home. The current 
repayment mortgage product  which Mr A and Mrs G took out in September 2022  is 
designed to pay off the mortgage in full by the end of the term in (I believe) October 2032.
Mr A and Mrs G have explained that Mr A has a good career and so, given this, it seems 
more likely than not that he will be able to continue to pay the current capital repayment 
mortgage until it reaches the end of the term in about 9 years time  at which point he will 
be 67 years old, and most likely still in full-time employment. 
In the circumstances, I cant see that it would be in Mrs Gs best interests if the mortgage 
was interest-only. By the end of the term in 2032, when she will be 85 years old, Mrs G 
would be faced with the prospect of selling the property to repay the mortgage  which is the 
opposite of what she has said she wants, which is to remain in the property for the rest of 
her life. Once the capital repayment mortgage is paid off, the property would be owned free 
and clear and there would be no pressure on Mr A and Mrs G to sell it.
Of course, Mr A and Mrs Gs circumstances might change, at which point Santander would 
need to look at what steps it might need to take to help if Mr A and Mrs G were to fall into 
financial difficulty. Likewise, Santanders lending criteria might also change, and so there is 
nothing to prevent Mr A and Mrs G from enquiring about a further advance, term extension 
or change of repayment type in the future. Any application would, of course, be subject to 
meeting Santanders lending criteria in place at the time of the application.
Overall, Im not persuaded Santander has acted unreasonably in declining Mr A and Mrs Gs 
requests, or that it has treated them unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman