DRN-2776040
The complaint
Mr S and Miss B complain about the decision by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to turn down their travel insurance claim.
What happened
On 2 May 2019, Mr S and Miss B took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a trip 
due to take place in July 2019. The policy was taken out through a subsidiary of Mapfres via 
a price comparison website. Mapfre underwrote the policy.
Mr S and Miss B had to cancel their trip due to illness. They submitted a cancellation claim 
to Mapfre. 
Mapfre turned down the claim. It thought Mr S and Miss B had failed to tell it important 
information about Miss Bs health when taking out the policy. It said that if it had known that 
information, it wouldnt have offered them the policy and so the claim wasnt payable. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S and Miss B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He thought Mapfres 
decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable, but he thought it should refund the 
premium Mr S and Miss B had paid for the policy.
Mapfre agreed with our investigators recommendations, but Mr S and Miss B didnt. The 
matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in accordance 
with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy).
When a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the insurer 
has certain remedies available to it, provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA 
describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the 
insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Mapfre thinks that Mr S and Miss B ought to have disclosed that Miss B had seen her GP on 
11 April 2019 about a lump in her breast that had grown, and that she had been referred for 
further investigations.  
Ive looked at the questions Mr S and Miss B were asked on the comparison website. 
The website asked:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy. Examples 
include diabetes, high blood pressure, depression and respiratory conditions (including 
asthma). You do not need to declare pregnancy as a medical condition.
Mr S and Miss B say that when Miss B went to her GP about the lump in her breast, the GP 
told her that it was likely a cyst or a fatty lump - but it would be best to get it checked 
anyway. 
Given the GPs advice to Miss B, and that she hadnt been diagnosed with a medical 
condition at the time, I can understand why she didnt think she had a pre-existing medical 
condition and therefore answered no to the question at this stage of the process.
However, later on in the sales process, it said:
Before you buy your insurance, please confirm that youve read this important 
information. You must tell your insurer about pre-existing medical conditions for everyone 
named on the policy  if you dont, your policy could be invalid.
Before purchasing the policy, Mr S and Miss B needed to confirm theyd read the important 
information. This said:
Important information 

I and anyone to be covered by this insurance have no undiagnosed symptoms that require 
attention or investigation
As Miss B hadnt received a diagnosis for the lump in her breast and was under investigation 
for this, I think she and Mr S ought reasonably to have known at that point that they needed 
to disclose this information.
By going back in the sales process and answering yes to the question about a pre-existing 
medical condition, this then asked:
Within the last 2 years, have you or anyone to be named on the policybeen prescribed 
medication, or received treatment or attended a medical practitioners surgery?
Im satisfied this question was clear. 
As Miss B had attended a medical practitioners surgery in the month before taking out the 
policy, I think she and Mr S ought to have answered yes to this question.
This would have then prompted them to provide some more information. If theyd declared 
that Miss B had a lump in her breast, they were presented with two options they could 
select either a benign lump, or a pre-cancerous lump. As they didnt know which one it was 
(as the investigations hadnt been carried out), they wouldnt have been able to go any 
further with the application.
Though even if theyd selected a benign lump (because they didnt think it was cancerous or 
pre-cancerous), this would have taken them to the quote results screen where some insurers 
would have offered them cover. However, this policy isnt one of those offered. Thats confirmed by the policy document which states that it doesnt cover medical problems that 
took place before the policy was taken out.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr S and Miss B didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, and that if they had taken reasonable care then Mapfre wouldnt have 
offered them the policy. That means Mapfre was entitled to turn down the claim and treat the 
policy as though it didnt exist.
Mapfre hasnt said it thinks that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, and hasnt 
provided any evidence to support that. Where an insurer hasnt shown that 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, CIDRA says that its careless. Im satisfied 
thats the case here. 
When a misrepresentation is careless, CIDRA says that the insurer should return the 
premium paid. I agree with our investigator that it would be appropriate for Mapfre to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to return the premium paid and add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement*.
*If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S and Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S 
and Miss B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman