DRN-3165270
The complaint
Ms M complains about her insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under her motor 
insurance policy. Ms Ms complaint is about the decision to treat her vehicle as a total loss 
and the valuation of her vehicle following an accident. This decision only relates to those 
decisions, which were made by Ageas as the insurer of the policy.
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents. Ms M was supported by a 
representative when making her complaint. References to Ms M include her representative.
What happened
In April 2020 Ms Ms vehicle, while parked, was hit in the rear by a third party. The vehicle 
was first registered in 1978 and had belonged to Ms Ms late father. Initially, Ms M told 
Ageas she wouldnt be making a claim for the damage, but subsequently changed her mind 
and lodged a claim.
 
Ageas arranged for an engineer to assess the vehicle, based on photographs of the vehicle. 
The engineer concluded that the severity of the damage, including structural damage, meant 
that the vehicle should be deemed to be a category B total loss, meaning that it shouldnt be 
repaired. Ageas noted that Ms Ms policy was on an agreed value basis (£500) meaning that 
if the vehicle was subject to a total loss, that was the most Ageas would pay in settlement.
Unhappy at her vehicle being deemed a category B total loss, Ms M raised her concerns 
with Ageas. They sent a second engineer to inspect the vehicle, who reached the same 
conclusion. The second engineers report also noted that the vehicle didnt have a valid MOT 
certificate and was in an unroadworthy condition with corrosion to various panels. It was also 
noted the vehicle had been subject to a previous category B total loss in 2007. Based on the 
report, Ageas confirmed their offer to settle the claim by paying the agreed value.
 
Ms M wasnt happy at Ageass decision and the settlement offered and complained to 
Ageas. Ageas rejected the complaint, referring to the engineers inspection of the vehicle 
and the heavy damage. Ageas also noted the point about the vehicle being the subject of a 
previous category B total loss. Ageas confirmed their settlement offer of £500 for the vehicle.
Ms M was unhappy at her complaint being rejected and complained to this service. The main 
elements of her complaint were the value Ageas offered in settlement and that her vehicle 
had been deemed a category B total loss. Ms M wanted Ageas to remove the category B 
designation and to revise their settlement offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding the settlement offer was in line with 
the agreed value set out in Ms Ms policy, so Ageas only had to pay that amount. The 
investigator also thought that in relying on the conclusions of two engineers, that the vehicle 
should be deemed a category B total loss, Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Ms M raised a number of issues, including that the previous category B total loss 
was wrong (it should have been category C) and that the vehicle (due to its age) was exempt 
from the requirement for an MOT certificate). Also, the vehicle was significantly undervalued 
(Ms M thought its value would be between £20,000 and £30,000). Ms M also provided 
evidence of the vehicle being maintained over the years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Ms M.
In considering Ms Ms complaint, Id first like to acknowledge her difficult circumstances (and 
those of her representative) that weve been made aware of. As a service we take account of 
such circumstances carefully, both in considering whats fair and reasonable in a complaint, 
as well as how we conduct our investigation. I also recognise the attachment to the vehicle 
that Ms M has, from it being previously owned by her late father. I know that the accident, 
and the consequent damage, will have been very distressing to her.
Coming back to the specifics of Ms Ms complaint, I think there are two main issues. The first 
is the decision of Ageas to deem Ms Ms vehicle to be a category B total loss. The second is 
the total loss value of the vehicle under Ms Ms policy (an agreed value of £500). 
On the first issue, Ive considered Ms Ms point that the previous category B total loss (in 
2007) was wrong and that it should have been category C. Ms M has provided some 
evidence to indicate that this was the subject of some consideration. However, the vehicle 
was recorded as a category B loss according to the insurance industry records that Ive seen. 
However, even if it were the case the vehicle shouldnt have been recorded as a category B 
loss at that time, I dont think thats directly relevant to consideration of the issue following the 
accident in 2020. 
I say that because the evidence from the two engineers indicates that their professional 
assessment is that the vehicle should be deemed to be a category B total loss on the basis of 
the extent of damage suffered in the accident in 2020. The reports indicate heavy damage to 
the vehicle, including structural damage. There are also indications that, due to the age of the 
vehicle, some parts would not be available  so it wouldnt be possible to repair the vehicle to 
a roadworthy condition (even if it were economically feasible to do do). Im persuaded that, 
based on the professional engineers reports, it was reasonable to deem the vehicle a 
category B total loss.
Ms M has provided evidence and representations about the vehicle being maintained over 
the years (and its condition). However, I dont think that affects the conclusion about the 
vehicle being a category B total loss. The key issue in that conclusion is the extent and 
severity of the damage from the accident in 2020, as well as the cost to repair (even if 
feasible). To that extent, the maintenance of the vehicle before the accident wouldnt have a 
significant bearing. 
Thats also the case for Ms Ms point that the vehicle didnt require an MOT certificate 
because of its age. Ms M is right that the MOT regulations are that a certificate isnt required 
for vehicles that are over 40 years old (assuming they havent been significantly modified 
from new). However, although Ms Ms vehicle didnt require an MOT certificate, it doesnt change the fact that the decision to deem the vehicle a category B total loss was based on 
the nature and severity of the damage.
The second main part of Ms Ms complaint is that Ageass settlement offer of £500 
significantly undervalues the vehicle. Ageas maintain that Ms Ms policy was on an agreed 
value basis (at £500) and so was the most they would pay for the vehicle in the event of it 
being a total loss (however caused).
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy. The policy schedule for the 
period of cover in which the accident occurred lists the vehicle details, together with a value 
of £500. Immediately below those details, the schedule states:
Your vehicle is presently insured on Agreed Value. This means if your vehicle is lost 
or totally destroyed, you will be paid out the amount shown above, regardless of the 
market value at the time of the loss. 
I think this condition is clear, and that the vehicle being deemed a total loss would mean that 
Ageas would have to pay the agreed value amount (£500). The condition is also clear the 
sum is paid, regardless of the market value at the time of loss. 
Ive also noted that the policy documentation includes a specific section headed Checking 
your vehicles value. This stresses the importance of checking the value of vehicles regularly 
to ensure that they are up to date and in line with current market trends, The section also 
states that the agreed value can be amended at any time and provides a range of options 
that could be considered for the purpose. The section notes that if the value is amended then 
a higher premium may be charged. From this, Ive concluded that had Ms M thought (as she 
maintains) that her vehicle was worth more than £500, she would have been able to amend 
the value to one that she considered more appropriate.
Based on these factors, Ive concluded that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when 
deeming Ms Ms vehicle to be a category B total loss. And that they acted reasonably 
in line with the agreed value and terms and conditions of the policy when offering a 
settlement of £500 for Ms Ms vehicle. 
I recognise that this will be disappointing for Ms M, but I hope Ive explained the 
reasoning for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman