DRN-2961550
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that the standard of service he received when calling National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr D called NatWest to transfer some money to his mother, but before the transaction could 
be completed, the call was disconnected. Mr D called back, but the call was disconnected 
again, so that Mr D had to call back a third time. Mr D wasnt happy about this, so he made a 
complaint.
When Mr D made his complaint, he felt that the NatWest agent who took his call was rude 
and dismissive. Mr D was also unhappy about another call where hed been placed on hold 
but had been able to hear a conversation between another NatWest agent and a customer, 
including personal and account details.
NatWest looked at Mr Ds complaint. They couldnt determine why the first two calls had 
disconnected and suggested that it might have been down to a technical issue beyond their 
control. NatWest also stated that they had been unable to locate the other calls that Mr D 
had referred to. However, NatWest confirmed that they had no reason to doubt Mr Ds 
testimony in these regards, and so upheld his complaint and made a payment to Mr D of 
£100 as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They accepted that it hadnt been possible 
to determine why the first two telephone calls had been disconnected, but they felt that 
NatWests agents who had taken the calls had dealt with the matter professionally and 
courteously at that time. Out investigator also felt that NatWests upholding Mr Ds complaint 
on the other two complaint points and paying compensation of £100 on account of this did 
represent a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has explained to this service that, at the time he was trying to arrange the transfer of 
funds to his mother, he had taken a large quantity of tablets in an attempt to end his own life. 
Id like to extend my sympathies to Mr D for the incredibly difficult position that he must have 
been in for such an attempt to take place, and I sincerely hope that things have improved for 
Mr D and that he has access to any support and assistance that he might require.
NatWest have been able to provide this service will recordings of the three telephone calls 
relating to this matter. Ive listened to those calls, and I understand how it must have been 
frustrating for Mr D that the first two calls disconnected, meaning that he had to call back and 
repeat the provision of security information to NatWest several times.
NatWest have stated that they dont know why the first two calls would have disconnected 
and have suggested that it might be because of a technical error beyond their control. Im 
also at a loss to explain why the calls would have disconnected but having listened to the 
calls I dont feel that it was because of any action of NatWests agents. 
I say this because on both of the calls that did disconnect, NatWests agents were handling 
those calls courteously and professionally such that I dont consider it likely that they would 
have intentionally disconnected the calls. And because of this Id find it very difficult to 
uphold this aspect of Mr Ds complaint as he would like here. 
NatWest havent been able to locate and provide recordings of the other two calls that Mr D 
references in his complaint  the call where he raised his complaint where he was spoken to 
dismissively, of the call where he was placed on hold but could overhear another 
conversation.
However, NatWest did confirm to Mr D in their complaint response letter that they have no 
reason to doubt the testimony of Mr D in these regards, and they made a payment to Mr D of 
£100 as compensation for any distress or inconvenience he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer thats considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party often not being considered as such by another party. But, while I 
appreciate that Mr D might feel differently, the £100 compensation already paid to Mr D by 
NatWest does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service 
would expect, given the circumstances here.
Im aware that Mr D feel that the amount of compensation should be higher on the basis that 
he feels that his call experience with NatWest was a contributory factor in his suicide 
attempt. I can appreciate that Mr D might recall those calls with some distress, but I dont 
feel that its possible to conclude that the disconnecting of the calls was something for which 
NatWest can be considered as being the responsible party for, such that NatWest can fairly 
be considered at fault for those calls disconnecting. And because of this, while the 
disconnecting of those calls may have furthered Mr Ds sense of distress at that time, I dont 
feel that this is something that I can reasonably hold NatWest responsible for.
Additionally, Mr D is upset that the first two NatWest agents he spoke to didnt identify the 
distress that he was experiencing and react accordingly. But having listened to the three 
calls myself, theres nothing evident from the behaviour of Mr D on the first two calls which 
suggested that he was in any form of distress at those times, and it was only towards the 
end of the third call that Mr Ds distress became apparent. 
It also must be noted that, when Mr Ds distress did become apparent on the third call, the 
NatWest representative that Mr D spoke with was responsive to Mr Ds intimations about 
what was taking place and did make efforts to support and help Mr D. Indeed, Mr D has 
confirmed to this service that, after Mr D ended the third call, the NatWest agent called the 
emergency services to his house  an act which may have saved Mr Ds life.
I also must confirm that the aspect of Mr Ds complaint as it relates to those three calls 
wasnt upheld by NatWest or by our investigator, and Im also not upholding that aspect of 
his complaint now. As such, the £100 compensation that Mr D received from NatWest was in 
relation to the other aspects of his complaint  the two calls which NatWest were unable to 
locate but for which they made a payment of £100 to Mr D on the basis of his testimony to 
them about these calls.This feels fair to me, and Im satisfied that this does represent a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this aspect of Mr Ds complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding Mr Ds 
complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr D wanted, and I hope that he can understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Finally, whilst I dont feel that I can uphold Mr Ds complaint here, having listened to the 
phone call where Mr D is clearly in distress, Id like to offer my sympathies to Mr D once 
again and extend to him my sincere best wishes for the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman