DRN-3400565
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the decision by Building Block Insurance PCC LTD (BBI) to decline a 
claim she made on her pet insurance policy. 
Mrs B is also unhappy with the service received whilst the claim was ongoing.
For the purposes of this complaint, any reference to BBI also includes the actions of their 
associated agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs B and BBI. I wont repeat in 
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In summary, Mrs Bs dog needed a cruciate repair and she made a claim on her pet 
insurance policy around April 2021. BBI declined it  relying on a policy exclusion related to 
a pet being overweight and needing treatment as a result. Mrs B was unhappy and raised a 
complaint with BBI. She remained unhappy with BBIs response and referred her complaint 
to our Service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and she recommended that it be upheld. BBI 
didnt accept the investigators findings and the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The declined claim
BBI declined this claim, relying on the below policy exclusion:
What is not insured? 
If in the opinion of a vet your pet is overweight and this results in your pet 
needing treatment [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman], and 
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured? 
12 Claims as a result of Your pet being overweight or underweight and this results 
in Your pet needing Treatment. [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
Its not in dispute that the dog was heavier than the ideal weight. But for BBIs argument to 
succeed  and for me to be reasonably satisfied that theyve fairly considered and declined 
the clam in line with the policy terms, there would need to be:
1- a vets opinion that the dog was overweight; and more importantly,  
2- strong supporting evidence that the treatment required here resulted from the additional 
weight issue. 
In this case, the dogs available medical history (generally) shows an upward trend in the 
weight recorded. 
BBI have referred to it being recorded in March 2021 that the vet advised a weight reduction 
to around 10kg. On balance, Im persuaded by the vets subsequent statement that this was 
to aid recovery, rather than a preventive step to lessen any future impact additional weight 
may have on the health of the dog.
BBI have also referred to the cause of a cruciate ligament rupture being multifactorial and, 
in summary, that the additional weight will have placed extra stress on cartilage and joints. 
This isnt an unreasonable position to take. But to decline the claim as theyve done here, 
theyd need to reasonably show that the extra weight this dog was carrying directly caused 
the treatment required. Overall, on balance,  Im more persuaded by the opinion from the 
expert (the vet) dated 14 September 2021:
It is my strong opinion that the bodyweight of [redacted by Ombudsman] was not 
the cause of her cruciate rupture. [bold for emphasis by Ombudsman] 
There are many overweight dogs and only a low percentage of these will sustain a 
cruciate injury. Also we encounter many normal fit weight dogs with cruciate injuries 
from being active dogs running around and enjoying life. 
It is my strong opinion that dogs suffer cruciate injuries when they are running and 
twist suddenly with that paw on the ground (similar to footballers) which tears some 
of the cruciate fibres and leads to cruciate degeneration. 
Other causes are hyperextension of the stifle when exercising, that is that a cruciate 
tear is caused by an injury to the stifle not just from being above the ideal body 
condition. I advised weight loss as an aid to the management of the arthritis that 
would follow the cruciate injury not because the weight had caused it. [bold for 
emphasis by Ombudsman] I like dogs to be a slim weight when they have sustained 
a cruciate injury as would be advised by any vet including specialists.
Therefore, I find that BBI havent fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms  
unfairly declining it.
The service received 
Ive not seen strong supporting evidence that BBI intentionally caused delays when handling 
this claim. Often claims can take time to investigate, validate and dont progress as promptly 
as a customer may like. But in this case I dont find the delays so unreasonable or avoidable 
to the extent that it warrants compensation.That said, I accept that the ultimate decision here to decline the claim will have caused 
Mrs B avoidable annoyance, frustration and worry. Its my understanding that Mrs B had to 
choose to delay further treatment for her dog as a result of the declined claim. I find that the 
£150 proposed by our investigator to be fair, reasonable and proportionate - relative to the 
impact of BBIs actions on Mrs B. 
Ive kept in mind that the statement from the vet referenced above was available for BBI to 
consider after their final response letter dated 2 August 2021, but prior to our Services 
involvement - but instead they chose not to place the appropriate weight on it. 
Putting things right
BBI should now consider the claim inline with the remaining policy terms.
Should BBI then settle the claim, if Mrs B has already paid for the cost of treatment, 
then, in addition, BBI should pay interest on the claim settlement amount at the rate 
of 8% simple from the date Mrs B paid the cost of treatment to the date the claim 
settlement is paid to her.
Pay Mrs B £150 for any trouble or upset caused by their decision to decline this 
claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to follow my direction as 
set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman