DRN-2743037
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) did not do 
enough to help him when his debit card was cancelled due to fraud on his account.
What happened
Mr A has a current account and a debit card with Tesco Bank. In July 2020 Mr A phoned the 
bank to report a suspicious phone call he had received, apparently from a fraudster who had 
impersonated bank staff. The result of that phone call was that Mr As card was cancelled as 
a precaution against fraud.
A replacement card was ordered, and Mr A was told that this would take up to seven working 
days to arrive. In that call, and in subsequent calls, Mr A said that this was not convenient, 
as he depends on online shopping to have his weekly groceries delivered. He has PTSD, 
which generally prevents him from going outside. As he shops with Tesco, he asked if Tesco 
Bank could transfer money from his current account to pay for his shopping, but the bank 
said this was not possible, as the bank and the supermarket are different businesses. Tesco 
Bank suggested other solutions, including delivering £200 cash to his home, but Mr A said 
these were unsuitable, and he raised a complaint. He said the bank had not taken into 
account his mental health disability. When the bank did not uphold his complaint, he referred 
the matter to this Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She listened to the call recordings (nine calls 
lasting over four hours). She concluded that it had been clearly explained to Mr A that he 
would be without a card for a few days, and he had agreed to the cancellation. The card had 
arrived within the time period he had been told. Mr A had not been without food during this 
period. She didnt agree that Tesco had discriminated against him or treated him 
unreasonably.
Mr A insisted that Tesco had not taken his circumstances into account. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I accept that Mr A has had PTSD for a long time, and that this makes it difficult for him to go 
outside. I agree that this constitutes a disability under the Equality Act 2010. So Tesco Bank 
has a duty to make reasonable adjustments for him to take this into account. However, that 
would not extend to not cancelling a card in circumstances where there is reason to believe 
that a customers account has been targeted by fraudsters. So I have only considered this 
issue in the context of whether Tesco Bank did enough to help Mr A after it had cancelled his 
card.
Since Tesco Bank and Tesco the supermarket are part of the same corporate group, I can 
well understand why Mr A asked the bank to transfer his money to the supermarket to pay 
for his next delivery of groceries. Nevertheless, I accept the banks explanation that they do 
not have a facility to do that, since they are different businesses. (I have noted that the 
banks staff have raised this as an issue with their colleagues, so it might be something 
which becomes possible in the future, but I have to deal with this complaint on the basis of 
what was possible at the time.)
Its clear that the bank offered Mr A a range of alternative solutions. Unfortunately these 
were not suitable for Mr A, as they all involved him having to go to the supermarket in 
person, and I understand why that was not an option for him. So I can see why he has 
complained that Tesco Bank did not offer him a solution which catered for his disability. But 
Im afraid that I cannot see what else Tesco Bank could have done for him instead. For that 
reason, I am not persuaded that Tesco failed to make reasonable adjustments or otherwise 
treated him unfairly.
Mr As problem was mitigated by the facts that he still had enough food to last him until his 
new card arrived, and that his car arrived on time. It is regrettable that he incurred a charge 
of £4.50 because he had to reschedule his next delivery, but I think that is the fraudsters 
fault rather than the banks, and so I will not order the bank to reimburse him for that amount.
In case something like this happens again, it might be helpful for Mr A to open a second 
current account with another bank, so that he will have a spare debit card for emergencies if 
his main debit card ever has to be cancelled again. (I apologise if this has occurred to him 
already.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman