DRN-4199524
The complaint
Ms W has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W took out a pet insurance policy with C&G for her cat, E. She took E to the vet following 
an accidental leg injury. It turned out that E had fractured his right foreleg in two places. He 
underwent surgery. Unfortunately, after the operation it was found that two of the screws that 
had been inserted into his leg needed to be replaced with longer screws. Further surgery 
was carried out a few days later to remedy that.
C&G refused to pay for the second operation which cost £3,600. It said that it had only been 
needed because the initial surgery hadnt been effective. It said the policy didnt cover 
remedying treatment that had failed.
Ms W brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. He thought C&G 
had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
As Ms W didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As is commonplace with insurance policies, Ms Ws policy doesnt provide cover for every 
eventuality. I can only require C&G to settle Ms Ws claim for the second operation if Im 
satisfied, based on all the evidence I have, that the policy terms cover it. Although I 
appreciate Ms W will be disappointed, Im satisfied the policy terms dont cover it. Ill explain 
why. 
The cat was initially found by the vet to have a simple fracture evident mid radius and ulna. 
The clinical history records show that that the vet discussed referral to a specialist for 
surgery but Ms W would like [it] done as soon as possible so happy to have done here on 
Friday if possible.  aware that we are not specialists and the complication rate could be 
higher.
The operation was carried out two days later. It involved fitting a metallic plate into the cats 
leg. The plate was held in place by screws. During surgery it was noticed that one screw had 
caused a fissure on the bone. So that screw was removed. The vet said that would leave a 
weak point. X-rays taken after surgery showed that two other screws needed to be replaced 
with longer ones.
On 29 December 2022 a vet in a different practice noted that the screws and the plate had 
loosened and become displaced. He said the best option was revision surgery which 
involved replacing the original plate and screws. My understanding of revision surgery is 
that its a procedure to correct a previous operation that did not achieve the desired 
outcome. The vet also referred to a failed repair and said An attempt to stabilise this 
fracture has been performed, but has failed.
Under the heading What is not insured? Ms Ws policy says:
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury, including but not limited to the 
following:

Any claim costs where the original Treatment has failed and Your Vet is required to repeat 
the Treatment again.
Ms W believes that the second claim should be covered as it relates to an accidental injury 
as opposed to cosmetic, elective or routine treatment. But the exclusion goes on to say that 
any treatment which isnt treating an illness or accidental injury is also not covered including 
any claim costs where the original treatment has failed. I think in this case its clear that the 
second operation wouldnt have been required if the original treatment hadnt failed. So its 
not correct to say that the main reason for the second operation was the accidental injury. 
Instead the second operation was required to correct the original treatment which had failed.
I therefore think its fair to apply the exclusion referred to above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman