DRN-3851715
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc deleted three payees from his payee list and 
with the customer service he received when he raised a complaint. 
What happened
Mr Y sets up bill payments to be paid on the first day of every month towards the end of the 
previous month. He explained he tried to set up bill payments at the end of July 2022 and 
found that three of his regular payees had disappeared from his payee list.
Unhappy with this, Mr Y called Barclays to raise a complaint. He asked them to compensate 
him with £100 for the inconvenience he was caused in contacting the three payees to obtain 
their account details and resetting them up on his account. He says he wasted a lot of his 
valuable time. Barclays agreed to look into the matter and to give Mr Y a call back later that 
day.
When Mr Y didnt receive the promised call back, he contacted Barclays again. He says he 
had to explain the problem again and wait on hold for a long time. Barclays didnt log Mr Ys 
complaint as they believed the issue was linked to a previous complaint he had raised, which 
had already been dealt with. Mr Y was unhappy that Barclays refused his claim and his 
request for a letter confirming their position. He felt the service he received was poor.
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service. We asked Barclays to investigate Mr Ys 
complaint and issue a final response letter. Barclays explained that the payee details were 
deleted due to a system error that doesnt recognise future dated payments as payments. 
They apologised for the inconvenience and frustration this caused. 
Barclays also said they were disappointed with the way the call with Mr Y was handled and 
agreed their colleague shouldve offered him more support. They explained feedback had 
been provided to their colleague to prevent a repeat of this error. They offered Mr Y £50 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused.  
Mr Y didnt accept the £50 compensation as he didnt feel it took into account everything that 
took place and the impact its had on him. To put things right, he asked for £1,000 
compensation based on his health.
Our investigator said that the compensation offer of £50 was fair and reasonable. He didnt 
ask Barclays to do anything further to resolve the issue. Mr Y disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that Mr Y has expressed the frustration caused by some of the issues hes 
experienced previously regarding payees. Id like to clarify that I wont be commenting on 
this as it has already been considered by our service as part of a different complaint.
Ill only be focusing on the specific issues Mr Y has raised as part of this complaint  that 
three of his payees were deleted from his payee list and the poor customer service that he 
received from Barclays in trying to raise a complaint.
Barclays has already admitted to a bank error here. They accept that a system issue means 
that it doesnt recognise future dated payments as payments which caused the payees to be 
deleted from Mr Ys payees list. 
I understand that Barclays are working on resolving the known issue, but they cant give a 
timescale of when they will fix the problem or confirm if it can even be fixed. I hope that 
Barclays are able to find a solution to this issue soon. But, as Mr Y is aware already, our 
service isnt able to ask Barclays to change or improve their systems. I note hes told us he 
has already contacted the financial services regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority, 
whose remit this falls under.
Mr Y is now aware that there is a system issue which might cause him similar problems in 
the future, given how he manages his payments each month. Barclays has suggested 
through our service that he uses alternative methods of payments until this issue is resolved, 
for example, a standing order, direct debit or card payment. 
I appreciate that bill payments are Mr Ys preferred method of making these payments. Its 
up to Mr Y to consider whether he accepts the alternative payment methods Barclays have 
suggested. But generally speaking, wed expect a customer to take steps to mitigate their 
situation. 
Mr Y has mentioned that faster payments, direct debits and standing orders use the same 
system so hell have the same problem with them too. I think it may be helpful to explain that 
different payment methods operate differently, so Mr Y may wish to explore which option 
would work best for him. If Mr Y does encounter any issues, hell need to raise this with 
Barclays separately at the time, if necessary, as Im not able to consider future potential 
issues as part of this complaint.
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mr Y to decide if Barclays have fairly resolved 
the complaint, or if they should do more to put things right.
I can see Mr Y was able to set up the payees again and made the three payments on 1 
August 2022 as expected. So, Mr Y hasnt suffered any financial loss. For example, 
penalties for late payment. 
I accept Mr Y was caused some inconvenience as he had to spend time to contact the three 
payees to obtain their bank details and then set them up as payees again. I appreciate this 
wouldve also caused him frustration and annoyance, but I dont think the impact on Mr Y 
here was significant. It isnt unusual to experience some problems when carrying out 
banking activities which may cause customers some distress and inconvenience. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr Y had with Barclays in July 2022 when he tried to log a complaint 
and asked for compensation. Overall, I agree he received poor customer service. Following 
the first call, Mr Y didnt receive a call back within the promised time slot. I agree this 
wouldve been frustrating and disappointing for Mr Y and he had to call Barclays again. During the second call, Mr Y had to repeat his problem again. And despite Mr Y describing in 
detail the problem he had, Barclays didnt log and investigate his concerns. Although the 
issue Mr Y experienced was similar to the complaint hed raised previously, I think it 
shouldve been clear to Barclays that this was a different complaint. I can understand why Mr 
Y didnt feel listened to and was disappointed with the service he received. But I note 
Barclays told Mr Y he could complain to our service which he did, so he wasnt prevented 
from referring the matter to us.
Given that Barclays didnt take Mr Ys concerns seriously, coupled with the issues he 
experienced with the payees being deleted, I can understand why the impact on Mr Y was 
compounded.
Ive taken into account the distress, frustration and annoyance Mr Y was caused, his 
comments about the impact this had on his health and the inconvenience he was caused. 
But I have to also bear in mind that Mr Y was able to sort out the problem himself which 
didnt delay his monthly payments. He also didnt suffer a financial loss.
Ive also considered that Barclays have offered reasonable suggestions to avoid similar 
issues in the future until the system issue is fixed. Theyve also apologised to Mr Y and 
shared feedback with their colleague. These are steps Id expect them to take as part of 
putting things right for Mr Y. 
All things considered, I think £50 compensation offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr Y was caused. I 
dont agree that the impact on Mr Y here was significant enough to warrant further 
compensation. Im satisfied Barclays have resolved this complaint fairly, so, I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay 
Mr Y £50 compensation, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman