DRN-3278503
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Saga Services Limited (Saga) failed to prove that a discount had 
been applied to his premium. 
What happened
Mr B has a private medical insurance policy for which he receives a 7.5% discount for paying 
premiums quarterly.
Mr B asked Saga to provide evidence that he had been receiving the 7.5% discount and is 
unhappy with the information that was provided. Saga provided Mr B with confirmation that 
the premium he had paid included a 7.5% discount by telling him what the cost would be, 
without the discount. For his 2020 premium, Saga explained that if he changed from paying 
quarterly to monthly, the price of the premium would increase from £4,334.94 to £5,112.45.
Mr B didnt think this information proved anything and wanted further information which he 
says relates specifically to him about how his premium has been calculated. He also feels 
compensation is due as a result of having to complain via this service to get this checked 
and the time he has spent on having to go through this process.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
When Mr B received a new policy schedule in August 2020, he asked for a 
breakdown to show that he had received a 7.5% discount but Saga confirmed its 
pricing model was commercially sensitive information and so it couldnt share any 
further information than it had already done so. 
Ive checked the information provided by Saga and although I cant share this with Mr 
B, Im satisfied that Saga has correctly applied a 7.5% discount to his premium. We 
have accepted the information from Saga in confidence and can do so, where this 
relates to commercially sensitive information. 
Ive considered whether Saga provided Mr B with enough information when he 
requested a breakdown relating to his premiums. And Im satisfied that it shared the 
information I would expect it to share including his no claims discount, the base 
premium, price after no claims discount, the IPT rate and the amount of IPT payable.
Mr B has said that he is entitled to an accurate breakdown of his premium. And by 
not sharing this with him, he is prevented from being able to point out any errors. But 
the information which he is asking for includes information which is commercially 
sensitive and which I cannot share. The information provided confirms the price Mr B 
paid and the price he would have paid without the discount.
Mr B has already been provided with the information which isnt commercially 
sensitive and so I dont think Saga could have done anything further to reassure Mr B 
that the premium was correct. As Mr B had to bring his complaint to this service, he 
feels compensation is warranted. But I can only direct compensation when I find a 
business failing has caused a loss or detriment. In this case, I dont think Saga has 
failed as its calculations are correct and it provided the information that it could. And 
so I wont be awarding any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman