DRN-3831858
The complaint
Mr T says American Express Services Europe Limited (who Ill call AESEL) were 
unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I dont think AESEL need to take any action here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
When a complaint is made about a claim under Section 75, its the business handling of that 
claim that amounts to the regulated activity that then gives the Financial Ombudsman 
Service its jurisdiction to consider the merits of the claim. So, here, Im considering whether 
AESELs decision not to uphold Mr Ts section 75 claim was reasonable.
I dont think there is evidence of either a breach of contract or a misrepresentation under 
which AESEL could support Mr Ts claim. 
I was sorry to hear that Mr Ts car has been vandalised whilst in a private car park that Mr T 
was directed to by the hotel when their car park was full. Its Mr Ts assertion that he paid for 
secure parking and that, as the car park wasnt secure, the hotel have either breached their 
contract with him or have misrepresented the car parking.
Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence that Mr T did book secure parking. Mr T has 
provided a screen shot from his reservation that says, self parking(s) 6.00 GBP daily. He 
has also provided a screenshot from the hotels website that explains self parking is 
available for £6 per day. That website also lists other forms of parking. It says, valet 
parking is not available, and secure parking is available. On that basis it seems Mr T paid 
for self parking as I can see the charge listed on his invoice is £6. I can see no claim that 
self parking was secure.
And, even if Im wrong about that, and the hotel did have a contractual obligation to provide 
secure parking, I dont think it would be fair to suggest they would be responsible for any 
damage done to Mr Ts car. Whilst secure car parking might reduce the chance of a car 
being vandalised I dont think theres evidence that its guaranteed to do so, or that if Mr T 
had selected secure car parking, he would be indemnified against any loss.
For those reasons I dont think AESEL were unreasonable when they rejected Mr Ts section 
75 claim and Im not asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman