DRN-4174836
The complaint
Mr R complains that Burfield Financial Planning Limited (BFP) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his deferred Defined Benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension plan (PPP) 
causing him to lose valuable retirement benefits.
What happened
Mr R had deferred benefits in a DB pension and, in 2016, he sought advice from BFP 
regarding his options with his pension.  
BFP conducted a fact-find and, based on the information it received, recorded that Mr R:
was aged 55 
had been divorced for 3-4 years and had no financial dependants
had just started a self-employed job earning around £14,000 a year
had outstanding debts of around £15,000 (around £5,500 to family, the rest on credit 
card and car finance)
had no savings or investments or other pension provision
had an urgent need to access money for dental treatment
had a cautious attitude to investment risk.
BFP issued Mr R with a suitability report in July 2016 recommending that he transfer the 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his DB pension to a PPP and then access the 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS). It said it would enable Mr R to achieve his 
objective of clearing his debt and self-fund his dental treatment.
Mr R followed BFPs recommendation and transferred around £84,500 from his DB pension 
to a PPP.
Mr R complained to BFP in July 2022, via a legal representative, about the advice he 
received. He said it was unsuitable because:
telephone calls were lengthy and the process was rushed
BFP didnt consider alternative ways for Mr R to pay off his debts rather than use his 
DB pension
BFP didnt fully consider Mr Rs circumstances
Mr R lost valuable benefits and will have lower benefits in retirement
BFP looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It explained that it 
carried out a fact-find to understand Mr Rs circumstances and objectives and that its advice 
was suitable for him. It said that he was in financial difficulties and had no other means to 
achieve his objectives.
Mr R didnt agree and brought his complaint to our Service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and didnt think that BFPs advice had been unsuitable. She agreed that the level 
of retirement benefits Mr R would receive by transferring was likely to be lower overall than if 
hed retained his DB pension. But she explained why she thought that Mr R was in a position 
of financial hardship at the time he was advised by BFP. She thought that the evidence 
showed BFP had considered Mr Rs options and there was no other viable means that 
allowed Mr R to meet his objectives. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr Rs 
representative highlighted the following in objecting to the investigators view:
Mr R was in a difficult place, suffering poor mental health at the time of the advice
Mr R had gone through a divorce
Mr R was suffering from depression and had lost his father
It accepted that he needed a PCLS for urgent dental care etc. But said the dental 
care was £2,000, debt to family was around £5,500 and Mr R was paying the 
minimum payment of £150 a month towards his credit card debt. So it argued he 
could have taken the benefits already available in the scheme (of £6,808 PCLS and 
£2,851 a year) 
BFP should have explored the option of a loan instead of the pension transfer 
It disagreed with investigators view that Mr R would have gone ahead anyway. It 
said that he wouldnt have done if hed been made aware of the guarantees he would 
lose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BFP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, BFP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Rs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, I think it most likely was.
Financial viability 
BFP analysed the CETV and concluded, in its recommendation, that it didnt represent good 
value. It obtained a critical yield figure of 9.05% and explained what that meant to Mr R. I 
think it was clear that any transferred fund would have to achieve that level of investment 
growth every year until age 65 just to match the benefits being given up. And BFPs 
recommendation made it clear that level of return couldnt be achieved. 
I agree with BFPs finding. BFP assessed Mr R as having a cautious attitude to risk. And that 
he had a low capacity for loss. It has shared the questionnaire that it used to estimate these 
for Mr R. Ive seen no evidence that questions these findings and they seem quite 
appropriate for someone in Mr Rs position. He still had 12 years until he retired. Which was 
time to make additional provision for when he stopped working. So he did have some 
capacity to recover from any investment losses he suffered. But the absence of other 
investments or pensions, combined with his income meant he did most likely have a low 
capacity for loss. 
By way of comparison for potential growth, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I dont 
consider that someone with Mr Rs ability to accept investment risk would have been likely to 
have approached, let alone consistently exceed even the medium projected return. It meant 
that a transfer would mean Mr R trading his DB pension benefits for something that would 
likely be of an overall lower value in the long run.
In this case though, BFP made that clear to Mr R. It didnt recommend that Mr R transfer his 
DB pension in expectation of getting better benefits. It explained that Mr R had other 
objectives that made its recommendation suitable for his circumstances. And I will go on to 
consider that.
Flexibility in accessing pension benefits
Mr R had significant debts, around £15,000, which were causing financial difficulty as he 
didnt have sufficient income to meet those debts. Mr R did not have any savings or other 
assets he couldve used to ease the financial pressure he was under. Mr R also couldnt 
likely afford to retire until 67, so I think he had a genuine need to access his PCLS earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his remaining funds invested until a later 
date. By accessing his TFC, Mr R wouldve been able to clear his debt and meet a pressing 
need for, what he described as, urgent dental treatment.
I dont think that Mr R had any reasonable alternatives that enabled him to meet his 
objectives. He was concerned about his ability to service his existing debt, so I dont think it 
would have been suitable or in his best interests to recommend he try to obtain additional 
borrowing. He had no savings and no other assets to access. He was living with a family 
member who he owed rent to. Entering into any kind of individual voluntary agreement (IVA) 
to manage his debt wouldnt have addressed the issue of debt he wanted to pay back to 
family. Nor would it have enabled him to pay for the dental treatment.
BFP clearly looked at the options available to Mr R through his DB pension too. It calculated 
that he could access an immediate lump sum around £6,800 and annual income around £2,850 a year. Whilst this would have undoubtedly helped, it was understandably not an 
attractive option to Mr R as it didnt provide enough money to meet his immediate objective, 
as per the information BFP had been given in its fact-find.
BFP have provided us with phone calls it had with Mr R at the time. It is apparent that he 
was really quite set on taking the whole of his pension immediately. And BFP went to, what I 
consider to be, great lengths to explain to him why that wasnt a reasonable course of action. 
It explained the tax implications of that and that it would leave Mr R with no pension in 
retirement. It explained that he didnt need to take any more than his PCLS in order to 
achieve his goal and that would leave a pot that he could draw on in the future. 
Although this meant Mr R wouldnt be able to take as much income from his pension at 65 
as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB pension, Im satisfied this was necessary in 
the circumstances. It appeared likely that Mr R would have been in a better position to 
manage his finances going forward once hed used the PCLS for its stated purpose. After 
which he had his income and potential to drawdown as necessary to supplement his state 
pension at retirement age. Overall, I think that BFP weighed up Mr Rs specific 
circumstances fairly. He was of an age where he understood he could legally use his 
pension fund to support his income deficit. BFPs recommendation to him wasnt unsuitable 
for his circumstances.
Ive considered the additional arguments Mr Rs representative has submitted on his behalf 
but I dont think they change the outcome. Im sorry to hear that it was a difficult time for 
Mr R. And it is easy to see why that would be the case. But BFP could only respond to 
information it had. I dont think it would have considered that Mr R had any mental health 
concerns unless told. In his phone calls he was lucid and good humoured and very clear 
about what he wanted to do. I think BFP took sufficient time to explain, during its phone 
calls, the reasons for its recommendations and the value of his DB pension and what he was 
giving up. And why its recommendation was more suitable for Mr R than what he wanted to 
initially do with his pension.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman