DRN-2890094
The complaint
Mrs H says Credit Resource Solutions Limited has treated her unfairly in the way it pursued 
her for a debt that wasnt owed.
What happened
Mrs H paid for some motor insurance with an Insurer for her daughter. Around December 
2019 the insurance ended. The Insurer wrote to her saying there was an outstanding amount 
(£107.23). But Mrs H disputed this and in January 2020 the Insurer agreed there was no 
debt and it told Mrs H that there was no monies outstanding.
In July 2020 Credit Resource Solutions Limited (CRSL for short) emailed saying she owed 
£107.23 and asked her to pay this. Mrs H disputed this and CRSL agreed there was no 
outstanding amount and closed the matter three days after emailing about this. Mrs H wasnt 
happy with CRSL, so she complained.
CRSL apologised for what happened and said it wouldnt ask her for this erroneous debt 
again. Mrs H wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator decided that CRSL had made an error but had fixed it promptly, so its 
apology was sufficient. As Mrs H remains unhappy this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events and timeline of what happened here arent in dispute. The Investigator here has 
set them out in his assessment (as has Mrs H in her representations) and none of the parties 
dispute that CRSL wrote in July 2020 asking for money that wasnt owed. CRSL say it did 
this because the Insurer asked it to do this earlier in July 2020. But after Mrs H disputed the 
debt it accepted no debt is owed.
I should make clear that this Final Decision isnt about the Insurer or what it did or didnt do. 
This decision is solely about the email that CRSL sent saying there was a debt and asking 
for it to be paid and how it behaved overall.
CRSL has made attempts to argue its not responsible for this complaint. But clearly it did 
send the email and is responsible for debt collection and tried (erroneously) to collect a debt 
here. So if it relied on what it was told by another party then it is for CRSL to sort out the 
consequences of that with the other party. But clearly Mrs H is entitled to complain about 
CRSLs email and clearly it is within my remit to deal with that complaint.
So although the facts of the matter are not disputed Mrs H remains unhappy. This is 
because she says the remedy of the apology already provided isnt sufficient for the damage 
done here. She says regulated communications should be clear fair and not misleading, that 
CRSL has broken FCA Principles, she says receiving such a letter would leave a reasonable 
person significantly concerned, that she spent many hours dealing with the matter and that 
her personal circumstances means this letter had a significant impact on her. She also 
describes the impact on her wellbeing and that she has been put through a mental ordeal. 
Im sorry to hear this. But I think CRSL has treated her fairly, so I am not upholding her 
complaint. And Ill explain why.
Mrs H has provided ample evidence from December 2019 and January 2020 about her 
dispute with the Insurer about a supposed outstanding payment/debt of £107.23. Mrs H has 
given a thorough, detailed and evidenced backed account of what happened during that 
period to this service. She has explained what happened, her frustration at the situation and 
given very clear, concise and specific commentary on those events. It is clear to me that Mrs 
H is an organised and considered individual who during those events with the Insurer was 
well aware of the situation and in the end got what she thought was the correct position-
confirmation that she didnt owe £107.23. And I think it likely that she didnt forget these 
matters quickly (if at all).
So when in July she received the correspondence from CRSL which states she owes 
£107.23 and names the Insurer that Mrs H had been dealing with some months before, I 
think it unlikely she thought this was something completely unrelated to her previous 
relationship with this specific Insurer. And I think on receipt of it she realised that she didnt 
owe this money because she knew the Insurer had told her that and that shed always 
believed that to be the case. And so it follows I dont think it the level of distress or 
inconvenience suffered here is anything other than at the lower end of the scale. After all she 
knew she didnt owe that amount to that Insurer. So I think she would have realised 
immediately that it was a mistake albeit one that needed sorting out (again).
I also have to consider how CRSL reacted to the matter. As soon as Mrs H raised the matter 
with it, it looked into things and promptly accepted its mistake and closed the matter. So 
having made a mistake I think it acted fairly, promptly and appropriately in dealing with the 
matter. And accordingly I dont think it has to do anything more.
For the sake of clarity and completeness Ill deal with some of Mrs Hs other arguments. She 
describes CRSL has having broken FCA Principles. Firstly it is for the FCA to deal with such 
matters and not this service. However I should add these Principles are in relation to the 
overall conduct of business by firms. Clearly one erroneous email isnt persuasive evidence 
of any firm as an entity being run contrary to those Principles over a significant period.
Mrs H talks about correspondence should be clear fair and not misleading. Broadly speaking 
what Mrs H is referring to is rules and guidance around sales and advertising behaviours of 
firms from the FCA. Similarly failings here on a macro scale are for the FCA to deal with not 
this service. However in Mrs Hs specific dispute it is for this service to consider whether she 
has been treated fairly. And it is my decision that there was an error here but CRSL have 
remedied the matter in what it did after this error was brought to its attention.
I think in this situation it was immediately evident to Mrs H that this correspondence from 
CRSL was a mistake. So in the reasonable person test Mrs H has alluded to Im not 
persuaded the reasonable person would be significantly concerned by what was clearly a 
mistake. A reasonable person receiving that correspondence knowing what she knew would 
have realised it was a mistake and although disappointed and knowing it needed sorting out, 
wouldnt have been anything more than mildly put out by this turn of events in my mind. 
Because theyd have recognised the amount and Insurer and known that this wasnt a debt 
owed. So considering what Ive said above and thinking carefully about the other arguments 
Mrs H has made I dont CRSL has anything more to do here.I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision. And although I dont think CRSL has 
to do anymore I do think these matters she has raised are important. And firms such as 
CRSL do need to be careful with their communications. But due to the very specific nature of 
these circumstances I think in this instance it has, in the end, treated Mrs H fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Credit Resource 
Solutions Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman