DRN-3202476
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (BHIL) cancelled 
his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy with BHIL through an online price comparison site. 
When another car hit the rear of his car, he tried to claim on his policy. 
BHIL declined his claim and cancelled his policy. When Mr A complained, it said hed 
answered the question hed been asked about his occupation incorrectly. And that it 
considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to cancel his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he thought this was deliberate or 
reckless. And so he thought BHIL was entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. He 
thought it had taken a softer option of cancelling rather than avoiding the policy. 
Mr A doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
BHIL thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that his occupation was as a consultant in a 
recruitment agency. 
And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked to disclose his occupation 
and the industry in which he worked. And I think this was a clear question asked by BHIL 
through the comparison site Mr A used.
Ive seen evidence that Mr A ran a number of quotes when he first took out his policy and 
when he renewed it. When he first applied for cover, he said he worked in the Sports 
Professional industry and BHIL didnt offer cover. He then changed this to recruitment 
agency. BHIL provided a quote and his application was accepted. 
But Im satisfied that Mr As industry was Sports Professional. This is because he worked as 
a scout for professional football teams. This is what was recorded on social media. Its what 
he told BHIL when he made his claim. And also its what he selected when he first applied 
for cover. 
And I think this means Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said his occupation industry was recruitment agency.
Mr A has argued that his industry is correctly recruitment agency and hes provided a 
definition for this. But Im not satisfied that this is correct from common understanding of the 
sector. And I also think its at odds with how Mr A described his role in his complaint to us. 
BHIL has provided evidence which shows that if Mr A had not made this misrepresentation it 
wouldnt have offered cover. This means I am satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one under CIDRA.
I can see that Mr A has argued that his job doesnt place him at a higher risk. But I think its 
for BHIL to decide what risks it wants to cover. This includes occupations and industries. 
This is its commercial decision. So I cant say this was wrong. 
I also think Mr As misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr A realised that he worked in the Sports Professional industry and not a 
recruitment agency. I can see from the evidence that when cover wasnt offered when he 
selected Sports Professional, he changed this to recruitment agency. So I think Mr A knew 
that what he had selected was untrue or misleading. 
Therefore, Im satisfied BHIL was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, BHIL does not have to deal 
with his claim following the accident. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing BHIL to rely on it to avoid Mr As policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint. 
In Mr As circumstances, I think BHIL very reasonably cancelled his policy rather than 
avoiding it as this is to Mr As advantage. And Mr A was fortunately able to pursue the other 
drivers insurer to deal with his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman