DRN-4154122
The complaint
Mr B complained about his car repairs when he claimed under his motor insurance policy 
with Ageas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mr B complained that Ageas approved repairer (Ageas garage) didnt repair his car properly 
and it had to go back to their garage twice before it was fixed. Mr B said this poor service 
caused him stress and added unnecessary extra mileage to his car. 
Ageas apologised that Mr B had not received their expected standard of service and offered 
him £25 for the car fuel used on the two extra returns. Mr B didnt think that was enough. He 
wanted Ageas to compensate him at least £200 for his stress, and wear and tear on his car. 
He was also unhappy at having to pay his policy excess before the first return attempt. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Ageass compensation offer was 
reasonable. Mr B didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the garage were first returning Mr Bs car, they noticed the windows were not working 
so they took it back to the garage to fix that. They returned it to Mr B the second time later 
that day but Mr B noticed some other issues. So the garage took it back again, fixed those 
and returned it to Mr B within a couple of days. In the meantime, Mr B retained the courtesy 
car that he had from Ageas. 
Mr B thinks that Ageas should have fixed his car properly the first time and was unhappy 
about having had had to pay his policy excess before that. But a policy excess is the first 
part of claim that a policyholder always has to pay themselves, and Mr B would still have had 
to pay it a few days later, after the car was fully fixed. 
Whilst it would have been better if Ageas had repaired the car fully the first time, and I can 
see that Mr B is frustrated that they didnt, Ageas did resolve the outstanding issues quickly, 
and apologised and offered him compensation. I think that was fair of them. And Mr B still 
had the courtesy car over that short period. 
I think that the extra mileage on his own car wouldnt have caused its value to depreciate, 
and so Ageas £25 fuel compensation offer was reasonable in the circumstances. I think that 
the level of impact on Mr B was put right by that and their apology. And so I would expect 
Ageas to pay Mr B the £25 if they havent already done so, but I dont require them to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
