DRN-2893593
The complaint
Mrs K makes a number of complaints about her Barclays Bank UK PLC credit card account.
What happened
Mrs K says she received a letter from Barclays about Persistent Debt (PD) despite making 
all required monthly payments. She says she made numerous telephone calls to Barclays, 
but it didnt return her calls. Mrs K says she is prepared to make a one-off payment less the 
interest to close the account and says Barclays has caused her stress and anxiety. She says 
Barclays didnt tell her about the interest that was accumulating.
Barclays says it applied interest to the outstanding balance in line with agreed account terms 
and conditions. It says Mrs K has had the account for many years and has online access to 
view her account statements. Barclays says it was obliged to send the PD letters and as Mrs 
K didnt agree to a payment plan, it suspended the account in October 2020. It says it sent 
numerous letters to Mrs K about the account and sent the first PD letter in February 2019.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Barclays had followed the PD rules and sent Mrs K numerous letters 
about it, but she didnt respond until August 2020. And that the account statements would 
have shown the balance and interest being applied in line with agreed terms and conditions. 
The investigator accepted Mrs K hadnt received promised call backs and recommended 
Barclays pay £50 compensation.
Barclays accepts that view, but Mrs K doesnt. She says she will offer half of the outstanding 
balance due to the way in which she was treated by Barclays. She also says she was 
concerned about replying to Barclays correspondence due to scam concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and can see this online credit card account was 
opened many years ago. Im satisfied that Barclays sent Mrs K monthly account statements 
which would have shown her the interest being applied and the outstanding balance. I would 
have expected Mrs K to have looked at those monthly statements and that it was her 
responsibility to manage her account. I have also looked at the account terms and conditions 
which I think Mrs K would have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and 
conditions explain the circumstances in which interest is charged.
So, I dont think Barclays made a mistake by applying the interest in these circumstances. 
Im satisfied Mrs K ought reasonably to have been aware of the account balance and that it 
was her choice not to repay the balance in full in order to avoid that interest.
The investigator has explained the PD rules and process and that Barclays is obliged to 
follow that process and send customers, in these circumstances, letters about their debt. Im 
satisfied having looked at Barclays records that it correctly followed that process which 
started in February 2019. I dont think Barclays made a mistake by suspending the account 
when an agreement couldnt be reached and think its clear that Mrs K doesnt believe she 
should be held responsible for the interest. 
I accept Barclays didnt respond to some of Mrs K calls to it. I have no doubt that caused her 
inconvenience, but I dont think it had any significant effect on the main complaint. I agree 
with the investigator that Barclays should pay £50 compensation which I can see its fairly 
agreed to do.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to charge interest and that it was for Mrs K to 
manage her account. Im also satisfied that Barclays followed the PD rules and I cant fairly 
hold it responsible for Mrs Ks concerns about being a scam victim. I would have expected 
Mrs K when she used online access to have noticed her account balance and the interest 
being applied. And seen that information matched the information Barclays told her about in 
the correspondence. For those reasons I cant fairly order Barclays to do anything further in 
the circumstances of this complaint, and no doubt Mrs K will consider speaking to it about 
the outstanding balance which may still be attracting interest.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs K £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this main part of this complaint and order Barclays 
Bank UK PLC pay Mrs K £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman