DRN-2639375
The complaint
Mr W complains that Equifax Limited removed his account balance and payment history.   
Mr W says this led to a reduction in his credit score which affected his ability to obtain credit.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with a company which I will refer to as N. Mr W had some 
issues with N that he brought to our attention in 2018. During Mr Ws complaint, he raised 
concerns about the information that N had recorded on his credit file.
N took steps to update Mr Ws credit file but in late 2019 he noticed that the payment history 
for his credit card with N had disappeared. Mr W says that this negatively affected his credit 
score. To support this, Mr W gave this service one copy of his Equifax credit report with the 
payment information showing and another without the payment information. The reports 
were created a day apart, but Mr Ws credit score dropped from excellent to good in that 
time. Mr W says the only reason must be that the earlier report contained the payment 
history and the later one doesnt. In all other respects the reports are identical.
Mr W was unhappy when lenders declined his credit applications. He says it must be due to 
Equifax not reporting his payment history on the credit card account.
Equifax agreed that there was a problem with the way in which data was transferring 
between its database and the tool that generates consumer reports. But Equifax said that  
Mr Ws account was reporting correctly to lenders. And that Mr Ws credit score wouldnt 
have been impacted by the issue as his account with N is showing up to date and with no 
late payments.
The investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. She thought Equifax had 
made a mistake and taken too long to resolve the problem. The investigator recommended 
that Equifax continue to work with N to find a solution and pay Mr W £250 compensation.
Mr W is unhappy with the amount of compensation. He thinks £6,000 is a fairer figure.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr W that I have had a look at his original complaint file as well as 
everything we have been given on the current complaint
I am sorry to see that Mr W has been stuck in the middle of this problem through no fault of 
his own. I dont think theres any dispute that something has gone wrong with the way in 
which Mr Ws account with N has been reported by Equifax. Mr W acknowledges that most 
of the problems lie with N. My consideration of Mr Ws complaint focuses only on Equifax 
and whether it should be required to do more to put things right than it has agreed so far.
Mr W says that he has been forced to borrow money from family and has only been offered 
credit building credit cards so has found it difficult to switch balances at the end of 
promotional rates. I appreciate the strain that this has placed upon Mr W but to require 
Equifax to pay the kind of compensation that he wants, I would have to find that the missing 
information led directly to the lowering of Mr Ws credit score and that this was then the main 
reason why Mr W was offered more expensive credit or was declined credit. And Im 
struggling to do this. 
The situation is also complicated by the fact that much of Mr Ws problems with his credit file 
stem from the actions of N. As Ive said, I can only look at what, if anything, Equifax has 
done wrong and the impact of any mistake on Mr W.
I accept that Mr Ws Equifax credit score dropped from 473 to 454 seemingly within the 
space of a day at the end of 2019. Mr W says this happened when his account with N was 
updated and the information about his statement balance, payment amounts and old credit 
limits disappeared. But I cant be sure that this was the only reason why Mr Ws score 
dropped. Equifax says that Mr Ws credit score wasnt affected by the missing information. 
And that its analysis of an individuals data will take account of hundreds of characteristics 
which means that credit scores do change.
Even if I was to be persuaded that the missing information led to Mr Ws score dropping, I 
still wouldnt require Equifax to pay further compensation. This is because lenders dont see 
Equifaxs credit scores  they are simply an indication of how a potential lender may view 
their credit rating rather than a formal assessment. Instead lenders rely on their own criteria 
and assessment to decide whether to lend. 
As far as I understand, any lenders viewing Mr Ws account with N wouldve seen an up to 
date account with no late payments  so no negative entries. The problem seems to lie with 
the transfer of data between Equifaxs database and the tool that generates consumer 
reports. 
Equifax agrees that something technical has gone wrong at its end. And for this, and the 
time its taken Equifax to deal with the problem, I agree with the investigators 
recommendation to pay Mr W £250. But I cant say that the missing information on Mr Ws 
Equifax credit report directly influenced the lenders decisions as they would have been 
looking at a wide range of factors, including how much credit Mr W already had and how 
much of it was being used. 
Equifax says its working with N to put things right for Mr W. I understand that Mr W wants 
Equifax to pay him significantly more compensation than the investigator recommended. But 
for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider the award of £250 is reasonable. Im sorry 
that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr W.
Putting things right
To put things right, Equifax must continue to work with N to make sure that it reports the 
account correctly and pay Mr W £250. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Equifax 
Limited to carry out the steps outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman