DRN-1277192
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr T says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr T applied for a Lloyds credit card in 1998. At the same time, it sold him PPI designed to 
help protect his monthly repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr T didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From the copy credit card application Mr T signed, I can see Lloyds made it clear that 
he didnt have to take out the PPI and that he still chose to do so  although I can 
understand why he might not remember that now after all this time.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
cover. And, as he had very limited sick pay and little or no other means of meeting 
his repayments if he wasnt working, he seems to have had a need for the cover 
which would have been paid on top of his sick pay and for longer. The PPI also 
included unemployment cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I believe he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But Lloyds 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr T, 
that was unfair. To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr T 
any extra interest he paid because of that.
Lloyds should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr T the difference between 
what Mr T owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr T 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman