DRN-2599852
The complaint
  Mr H and Ms H complain about their insurer (Covea Insurance plc). Their complaint is 
about the time taken to repair their car following an accident, the number of times the car 
was in for repair, the length of time they were without the car and the quality of the work 
carried out and additional damage they say was caused while their car was in for repair. 
They also complain about the impact it had on them as a family from loss of use of their car 
and the courtesy car provided.
What happened
  Mr H and Ms H acquired their car in May 2018 under a one-year lease. They had an 
accident in December 2018 that required repairs. The car was repaired by the insurers 
approved repairers and returned in January 2019. Mr H and Ms H were unhappy with the 
repairs and complained to their insurer that not all the repairs had been carried out and that 
there was additional damage to the car. The insurer upheld their complaint at the beginning 
of February and it was agreed that the vehicle would be returned to the repairer for 
rectification work.
 
The car was returned to the repairer in February, but Mr H and Ms H were unhappy when 
the vehicle was returned with further damage. The insurer re-opened the complaint and the 
car was returned to the repairer on three further occasions in March, April and May 2019. A 
courtesy car was provided for the time that the car was in for repair, but Mr H and Ms H 
complain that it was smaller than their car and not adequate for the size of their family. The 
insurer did, at Mr H and Ms Hs request, provide a larger courtesy car to enable them and 
their family to go on holiday towards the end of May 2019.
Mr H and Ms H also complained of a fault with the cars steering when returned in May 2019 
and were also unhappy that when returned some damage was still not repaired. As the car 
was coming to the end of the lease period, the insurer agreed to cover the costs of extending 
the lease and for any outstanding damage when the car returned to the lease company. 
Mr H and Ms Hs re-opened complaint to the insurer was upheld in part in July 2019. The 
insurer paid £600 for the inconvenience and costs incurred. But they did not accept their 
claim for a reimbursement of the lease costs of the car as a courtesy car had been provided 
for the period of the repairs. Mr H and Ms H were unhappy at this decision and complained 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and concluded that the 
insurer had dealt with Mr H and Ms Hs complaint fairly, and that the compensation offered 
was fair and reasonable. Mr H and Ms H did not accept the investigators initial view, saying 
that the compensation was not sufficient and raising points about the size of the courtesy car 
and fuel levels in the courtesy car and their own car on delivery. The investigator obtained 
further information from the Insurer. The investigator again concluded that the compensation 
offered was fair in the circumstances. Mr H and Ms H requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
It seems Mr H and Ms H received a final response to their first complaint in February 2019. 
That was more than six months before they came to this service. So it seems the issues 
addressed in that February response fall outside the jurisdiction of this service to consider  
unless there were exceptional circumstances that prevent them bringing it earlier. If Mr and 
Mrs H feel I should be able to consider these issues they can explain why in response to this 
provisional decision.
The insurer also issued a final response in July 2019. That was within six months of Mr and 
Mrs H bring their complaint to this service. I have therefore considered the circumstances 
and events from directly after the February 2019 response, covering the second period of 
repair in February 2019 and subsequent returns of their vehicle for repair. Also, Mr H and Ms 
H have made a number of points. I havent addressed every one here, but Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the main issues. But I have considered all the points they have raised.
Mr H and Ms Hs car was in for inspection and repair on four further occasions following the 
initial period of repair from December 2018 to January 2019: in February, March, April and 
May 2019 (at the point at which the lease was due to end). Their car still had unrepaired 
damage at that point. I agree that - as the insurer acknowledged - the service that Mr H and 
Ms H received fell below the standards that they should have expected, as the repairs 
should have been completed satisfactorily in the first instance. It is also fair that they 
received compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in repairs 
being carried out and their car having to return for repair on several occasions.
  
The terms of Mr H and Ms Hs insurance policy provide for a basic courtesy car and this was 
provided for the periods when the car was in for repair and the insurer states that it provided 
a Class A upgrade. A larger courtesy car was also provided on request by Mr H and Ms H 
for the specific purpose of a family holiday in May 2019. The evidence from calls between Mr 
H and Ms H and the insurer indicates that the issue of the size of courtesy car was raised 
later in the claim period. I would usually find it reasonable for whatever type of car is set out 
in the policy to be provided for an initial repair, but I do not consider it fair and reasonable for 
the additional times that their car was in for repair.
The issue about a fault with the steering was raised in May 2019, but there is no evidence 
that that it was raised before that date, so on balance I do not believe the fault was a result 
of the original accident and repair.  It is also unclear whether it was a result of the actions of 
the repairer or unrelated. I havent seen enough to make me think its something that the 
repairer or the insurer are probably responsible for.
With respect to Mr and Mrs Hs claim for a reimbursement of six months lease cost of their 
car, I note from the dates when their car was in for repair that it was not available to them for 
about a month in total on the further occasions after the initial repair period and I have 
considered the impact of their not having the car for that period. On that basis I do not think 
that the claim for six months lease costs is fair and reasonable, given that Mr H and Ms H 
did have access to a basic courtesy car.
 
However, as the courtesy car was smaller than their own car, I do think that there was a 
detrimental impact on them for those periods, given the size of their family and that it was an 
automatic car rather than a manual car that they were used to. I consider that it is fair and 
reasonable for an amount of compensation for loss of use of their own car, in addition to the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience that they received. In the circumstances, 
taking account of the period where their car was not available and the impact on them as a 
family, I consider a further £150 to be fair and reasonable.my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I partially uphold Mr H and 
Ms Hs complaint.
 
I intend to require that Covea Insurance plc should pay £150 in compensation to Mr H and 
Ms H in addition to the sum that it has already paid.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
  
Covea did not agree that an additional £150 compensation was warranted. It felt that it had 
acknowledged that there had been repeated instances of inconvenience, and that its award 
of £600 compensation was sufficient. It also disagreed that it was obliged to compensate for 
Mr and Ms Hs courtesy car being small, as this was what the policy terms and conditions 
provided for, and no additional cover was purchased by Mr H and Ms H as part of the policy 
to allow a larger car. Covea added that it did, as a gesture of goodwill, provide a larger car 
for a period of time when a family holiday had been arranged. They also noted that they 
reimbursed the lease [extension] costs of Mr H and Ms Hs car, by way of complaint 
resolution.
Mr H and Ms H did not agree that the additional £150 was sufficient. They also said that the 
length of time that they were without the car was more than two months, not the one month 
stated in the provisional decision, and that they lost almost half the time available to use it 
(over the period of the lease). They also said that while it was only right that a small courtesy 
car was provided for the first period of repair, for the subsequent period of repair a like for 
like car should have been provided. Mr H and Ms H also restated the effect on their family 
life from being unable to travel together as the small courtesy car provided wasnt able to 
accommodate the family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Covea have said that they believe that their award of £600 was sufficient, and that Mr H and 
Ms Hs policy did not provide for the provision of more than a basic courtesy car. I 
acknowledge the latter point, but it was the repeated failures to repair the car to an 
appropriate standard that, in my view, merited the additional amount of compensation set out 
in my provisional view. In forming my provisional view, I did take into account the fact that 
Covea agreed to pay for the extension of the lease on Mr H and Ms Hs car when its term 
came to an end in May 2019, at which point it had still not been satisfactorily repaired. I also 
took into account that Covea agreed to pay for any unrepaired damage when the car was 
finally returned in June 2019. As Covea had agreed to meet those costs, I took that into 
account when coming to my view on an additional amount of compensation. Ive also 
considered the point made by Covea that they provided an upgrade to the courtesy car, but 
my view is that the repeated attempts and delays in repairing the car means that it is 
reasonable for me to look beyond the terms of the policy. Ive therefore not changed my 
mind about the additional £150 in compensation being fair and reasonable.
Regarding the points raised by Mr H and Ms H, in my provisional view I noted that the 
response to their initial complaint to Covea in February 2019 was that it was agreed that the 
car would go back in for rectification work. As the period from that point to Mr H and Mrs H 
complaining to this service was more than six months, it fell outside the period that this service is able to consider complaints. Ive not seen any exceptional circumstances in the 
representations from Mr H and Ms H change my view, particularly given their comment that it 
was only right that a small courtesy car was provided for the first period of repair.
On the other points raised by Mr H and Ms H, then regarding the period for which their car 
was unavailable to them, because of the point above about only considering issues that 
arose after the response to their first complaint to Covea, I didnt include the period between 
December 2018 and January 2019. Ive also taken into consideration that for the period 
between the end of the one-year lease term in May 2019 and the return of the car to the 
lease company in June 2019, Covea agreed to meet the costs of extending the lease (and 
covering any unrepaired damage on its return). Therefore, my estimate of the time they did 
not have the car available to them was based on the periods between February and the end 
of the lease period in May. So I dont agree with their point about the length of time that they 
were without the car when it was in for repair. I also disagree that they didnt have use of the 
car for over half the period of the lease, given that the lease commenced in May 2018, the 
accident was in December 2018, and the points Ive made about the period that the car was 
unavailable to them whilst in for repair after February 2019. So Ive not changed my mind on 
this point.
 
Mr and Ms H also restate the point about the impact on their family life. I acknowledged this 
and took it into account when reaching my provisional view and I dont consider that Mr H 
and Ms H have raised any new points about this that would lead me to change my mind.
In summary, the responses from Covea and from Mr H and Ms H havent changed my view 
and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know 
that both parties may be disappointed with this, but I hope they understand my reasons. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr H and Ms Hs complaint.
 
I require that Covea Insurance plc should pay £150 in compensation to Mr H and Ms H in 
addition to the sum that it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman