DRN-3694887
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) accepted a 50/50 split 
liability outcome in relation to a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this 
complaint, that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether 
Advantage have applied the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and 
whether they have dealt with the claim fairly. 
Under the terms of the policy, Advantage can independently decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it. This might mean Advantage makes a decision that Mr C 
disagrees with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most 
motor insurance policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we 
expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making their decision on liability. 
There is no CCTV footage available to show what happened and no independent 
witnesses. Mr C has said there was a passenger in his car, however, as this person 
was known to Mr C, I dont think Advantage concluded unreasonably that they 
werent independent. Im also satisfied that the photographs Mr C provided from the 
scene dont persuasively show who was responsible for the accident.
As Mr C is aware, the accident happened on a narrow road and both sides claimed 
the other party was responsible for the collision. In such circumstances, it's 
essentially one persons word against the other. So, I dont think Advantage acted 
unreasonably by settling the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis after considering all 
the circumstances and available evidence. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman