DRN-2912797
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of C, a GP practice, about what Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) did 
after C made a claim on the legal expenses section of its business protection policy.  
What happened
C has business protection insurance with Lloyds which includes legal expenses cover. In 
June 2020 Mr S contacted Lloyds as C had a contract dispute with its local NHS Clinical 
Commissioning Group (CCG) and wanted assistance from the legal expenses policy. Lloyds 
referred the matter to panel solicitors for an assessment as to whether the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms). 
Mr S was unhappy with this as he wanted Cs own solicitors to deal with the claim. He didnt 
think the panel solicitors had the expertise to deal with it and so didnt provide information 
theyd asked for. Lloyds said under the terms of the policy C didnt have the right to choose 
its own solicitor until proceedings were needed. And the panel firm had advised it had the 
necessary experience to deal with the case. In addition, prospects of success for the claim 
would need to be established before cover could be confirmed. 
Cs dispute with the CCG progressed and at the end of September it advised the matter 
could now be referred to NHS Resolution which C did. Mr S argued that meant proceedings 
had now been issued so it should have the right to choose its own solicitor. Lloyds agreed 
that would apply from when NHS Resolution agreed to consider the substantive case 
(though said prospects of success would still need to be established). But it didnt think it 
applied to the preliminary stage (which lasted until March 2021) when NHS Resolution was 
considering whether local dispute resolution procedures had been exhausted. 
Our investigator didnt think C had the right to choose its own solicitor when the claim was 
first made or that the preliminary stage of the NHS Resolution process represented 
proceedings. And he didnt think the claim was so complex that panel solicitors werent able 
to deal with it. So he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong in not agreeing to the 
appointment of Cs own solicitors at an earlier stage. 
Mr S didnt agree. He outlined why he thought the case wasnt one panel solicitors were able 
to deal with. And he believed proceedings had in any case started at the end of September 
2020 when the matter was referred to NHS Resolution. So I need to reach a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Lloyds has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Cs policy. In relation to the freedom to choose 
an appointed adviser they say:
a) In certain circumstances as set out in b) below the Insured Person may choose an 
Appointed Advisor. In all other cases no such right exists and We shall choose the 
Appointed Advisor.
b) If:
i) We agree to start proceedings or proceedings are issued against an Insured 
Person, or
ii) there is a conflict of interest
the Insured Person may choose a qualified Appointed Advisor except where the 
Insured Persons claim is to be dealt with by the Employment Tribunal or Small 
Claims Court where We shall always choose the Appointed Advisor.
I think those terms are clear and I dont think theres any suggestion there was a conflict of 
interest in this case. So, under the terms of the policy, C would only have the right to choose 
its own solicitor from when Lloyds agreed proceedings needed to be started. 
Nevertheless, if the case was particularly complex and it was clear a panel firm didnt have 
the necessary expertise to deal with it then it might be fair for an insurer to allow a 
policyholder to appoint their own firm at an earlier stage even if this wasnt something they 
were entitled to under the terms of the policy. Mr S has argued that does apply here and hes 
explained why he feels this is a case that required the appointment of a specialist solicitor.
However, the panel firm have said that they do have the necessary expertise to deal with the 
matter. And I note they have experience in both healthcare and regulatory matters which are 
central to the claim C made. I appreciate they may not have the particular knowledge that 
Cs preferred solicitors have but I dont think that in itself means the panel firm arent able to 
progress the claim.  
Ive also taken into account that, while Mr S has explained why he doesnt feel the panel firm 
has the required experience I cant see hes provided an opinion from his own solicitors 
explaining why, in their professional opinion, they dont feel the panel firm would be able to 
deal with the matter. In the absence of supporting evidence such as that I dont think Lloyds 
acted unfairly in deciding not to allow C to appoint its own solicitors before proceedings 
needed to be started.  
Mr S argues proceedings did start from when he began the NHS Resolution process. But the 
guidance around that process makes clear in some circumstances NHS Resolution will 
consider as a preliminary matter whether the parties have complied with local dispute 
resolution requirements (which is what happened here). I understand until that process is 
complete it wont consider the actual issues giving rise to the dispute. And it appears it was 
only after that process was completed that NHS Resolution then invited further submissions 
on the substantive claim.  
I think it is reasonable to say from that point proceedings had started. And I understand 
Lloyds has accepted that because its agreed C has the right to choose its own 
representative from then. However, I can understand why Lloyds didnt consider proceedings 
had started prior to that as the preliminary stage didnt involve any consideration of the 
substantive claim.
But even if it could be shown the preliminary stage did represent proceedings and so C 
should have been able to appoint its own solicitor from an earlier date, under the terms of 
the policy funding is only provided for a claim if its established it has reasonable prospects 
of success. Thats defined as a greater than 50% chance of the Insured Person successfully 
pursuing or defending the claim. 
That hadnt been established at the point the NHS Resolution process started because C hadnt provided information the panel solicitors asked for. And the policy excludes costs and 
expensesincurred without our consent. On that basis I dont think costs C incurred in 
pursuing its claim at that time would have been something the policy would have covered. 
So I dont think these costs are ones Lloyds needs to reimburse C for.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman