DRN-2946006
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund him the money he paid 
for a purchase that he didnt receive.
What happened
Mr P bought the rights to a social media account through a third-party website. He used his 
PayPal account, which was linked to his debit card, to pay for this. When he didnt get the 
password to the account from the seller, he raised a dispute under PayPals buyer protection 
policy, asking for the return of the approximately £80 that hed paid.
The seller contacted Mr P and said that if he were to discontinue the dispute, theyd send 
him the password to the account. So, he marked the dispute as resolved on PayPals 
website. When authorising that dispute termination, PayPal has said that Mr P will have seen 
a warning telling him that if he stopped the dispute, he wouldnt be able to re-open it for the 
same item. Mr P looks to have clicked the button to acknowledge this and terminated the 
dispute.
The seller then asked Mr P for a further £50. He paid this, but still didnt receive the 
password. Mr P has since managed to recover the £50, but PayPal wouldnt re-open his 
dispute. So, he remains £80 out of pocket. And doesnt have access to the social media 
account that he paid for.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. She said that whilst she 
thought PayPal should have re-opened the dispute, even if it had, Mr P would most likely not 
have been entitled to a refund, as it appeared that hed purchased the social media account 
for business purposes. And she thought PayPals buyer protection policy didnt cover such 
transactions.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review and decision. Prior to this final 
decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in which I said that I intended to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P agreed with this, although PayPal didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I was very sorry to hear that Mr P had been defrauded by the seller of this social media 
account. And I can appreciate why hes so upset that PayPal hasnt done anything to help 
him recover the lost funds.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr P authorised the payment to the fraudster who 
he thought was a legitimate seller. The transaction wasnt one that Id have expected 
PayPal to spot as being potentially fraudulent, so it wasnt reasonable to have expected it 
to prevent the loss in the first place. But PayPal does have a buyer protection policy in 
place to help protect its customers in these sorts of circumstance. And Mr P was therefore 
left having to rely on that. But PayPal refused to help him further.
After Mr P terminated the dispute with PayPal, he wasnt able to resolve the matter with 
the seller as hed expected. But I think that PayPal shouldve done more to help him when 
he returned a second time asking for assistance.
PayPal says that when Mr P asked it to re-open his dispute, it wasnt able to do so. This is 
because it had warned him that once hed marked the dispute as resolved on its website, 
he wouldnt be able to re-open it. But its not a case of PayPal not being able to re-open 
the dispute. Its just that it chose not to.
I dont consider this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. I 
accept that, at the time, Mr P probably did click a button to acknowledge that if he were to 
discontinue his dispute, he wouldnt be able to re-open it for the same item. But, when he 
did this, he was still being defrauded. The seller lured Mr P into a false sense of security, 
and tricked him into sending even more money, with the promise that if he did so, hed 
receive the password for the account hed purchased. This is a common fraudsters tactic. 
And is something that PayPal should be aware may happen to its customers. So, I dont 
think its fair to have an absolute prohibition on re-opening disputes in these 
circumstances, leaving customers with little or no recourse.
When looking at PayPals terms and conditions that applied at the time of Mr Ps 
transaction, I understand that PayPal acknowledge there wasnt a specific section which 
made clear that a dispute, once marked as resolved, wont normally be re-opened. And 
whilst there may have been a pop-up box that he accepted, I dont think it was fair for it 
refuse to help in the case of Mr Ps transaction. It could have, and should have, re-opened 
Mr Ps dispute for this purchase.
Our investigator felt that even if PayPal had re-opened Mr Ps dispute, the type of 
purchase hed made wouldnt have been covered by its buyer protection policy. She didnt 
think his transaction met the definition of an eligible purchase under that policy because 
of the following clause:
Purchases of most goods and services are eligible (including travel tickets, intangible 
items such as rights of access to digital content and other licences), except for the 
following transactions:
. purchases of any interest in a business (including, without limitation, any
items or services forming part of a business or corporate acquisition)
But I dont agree that this clause applies to Mr Ps transaction. Buying rights of access to 
digital content is something thats clearly covered by the policy, and this wasnt the 
purchase of any interest in a business, as the rights to the social media account werent a 
business in themselves. The clause also doesnt preclude purchases being made for 
business purposes.
So, in summary, Ive found that Mr P was more likely than not defrauded by the seller of 
the social media account. He was tricked into sending about £80 to that person and didnt 
receive the access details he was expecting in return. It appears Mr P trusted that the 
seller would fulfil the purchase as described, and this is evident from the fact he sent a 
further £50 to them when requested, which hes since recovered.
Had PayPal re-opened the dispute, and this had proceeded to a claim, we cant now know 
whether it wouldve been able to recover the £80 from the beneficiarys account, due to the time that has passed. But, in the circumstances of this complaint, given my finding that Mr P 
has been the victim of fraud, and because I think PayPal shouldve re-opened Mr Ps 
dispute when he asked it to, I do think that this is more likely than not a claim that would 
have been upheld in Mr Ps favour. So, I think its only fair and reasonable that PayPal now 
refund Mr P the purchase price that he paid for this item.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr P didnt have anything further to add. But PayPal 
disagreed, and said in summary:
It disagreed that Mr P should have no personal responsibility for closing the dispute, 
despite being advised of what the consequences might be;
It cant understand why Mr P closed the dispute when he hadnt received his refund - 
especially as he was advised by PayPal that he wouldnt be able to re-open a dispute 
once closed. It believes his dispute is with the seller directly; and
Its User Agreement isnt a site map which breaks down the outcome of each and 
every action which may occur when a customer takes action upon their account. But, 
Mr P wouldve received an on-screen warning before closing the dispute explaining 
that if he proceeded with that action, he wouldnt be permitted to re-open it.
Ive thought carefully about PayPals response. I appreciate its comments that its User 
Agreement isnt a sitemap. I said in my provisional decision that I accept Mr P probably did 
click a button to acknowledge that if he were to discontinue his dispute, he wouldnt be able 
to re-open it for the same item. But what Im most concerned about here are the 
circumstances that Mr P found himself in at the time, and whether or not PayPals User 
Agreement, and strict application of its dispute closure process, produces an unfair outcome 
for him.
At the time of terminating the dispute with PayPal, Mr P was still being defrauded. He was 
being coached into closing the dispute and sending the fraudster more money, in order to 
receive the password for the account hed purchased. PayPal said it cant understand why 
Mr P closed his dispute when he hadnt received his refund  but fraudsters use many 
methods to trick people into parting with their money. And I think Mr P took the action he did, 
because he remained under the spell of the fraudster and believed he was taking the 
appropriate steps in order to receive the account details hed paid for. 
I remain of the opinion that its not fair to have an absolute prohibition on re-opening disputes 
in these circumstances, leaving customers with little or no recourse when theyve been 
tricked into closing a dispute whilst a fraud is on-going. This is something that I think PayPal 
should have investigated at the time, given its payment platform was being used to facilitate 
fraud. And it had the opportunity to help protect its customer from this.
So, having considered all of the circumstances, I dont think my provisional findings need to 
change. And I adopt them in full in this final decision. I therefore think that fair compensation 
is for PayPal to refund the value of the disputed transaction to Mr P.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
refund Mr P the amount that he paid through his PayPal account for this fraudulent 
purchase.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman