DRN-3709803
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that he was unable to use the automated telephone banking system 
provided by Nationwide Building Society to find out the balance of his account.
What happened
Mr L held a basic current account with Nationwide.
In late June 2022 Nationwide made the decision to place a block on Mr Ls account after he 
made a number of fraud claims.
On 11 August 2022 Mr L tried to use the automated system through telephone banking to 
find out the balance of his account. But he was unable to do so. He then spoke to an 
adviser, who asked him for his account details so she could tell him the balance. But Mr L 
was unhappy about giving his details again after hed already entered them into the 
automated system.
Mr L gave his details again and the adviser told him his account balance. Mr L remained 
unhappy and asked for a complaint to be raised.
Nationwide sent their final response to Mr Ls complaint on 22 August 2022. They explained 
that because his account was blocked, the telephone banking automated system wasnt 
available for him to use  so this is why he couldnt find out his balance through the 
automated system.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. But 
Mr L didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has also made a complaint about Nationwides decision to block and subsequently 
close his account, which is being considered separately to this complaint. So, I want to be 
clear that in this decision I am only considering the complaint hes brought to us about not 
being able to use the automated telephone banking system to find out his balance on this 
occasion.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls account explain that Nationwide may suspend the right to 
use telephone banking if they think its reasonably necessary, for instance, if theyre 
concerned about security, or to protect them or the account holder from fraudulent activity or 
the account being used in an unauthorised way. 
Mr Ls account had been the subject of a number of claims of fraudulent activity over the 
preceding two months, which resulted in Nationwide deciding to place a block on his 
account. So, I can see why Nationwide would have been concerned about further fraudulent 
activity. And this is one of the reasons they can suspend telephone banking under the 
account terms and conditions.
In the circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for Nationwide to suspend Mr Ls access to 
telephone banking. Theyve acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account. And it 
was this that meant he was unable to obtain his account balance through the automated 
system. I dont think Nationwide have made an error or treated Mr L unfairly here.
Im also bearing in mind that Mr L was able to find out his account balance within a few 
minutes after the call was put through to an adviser. So the inconvenience caused to him 
from not being able to use the automated system here was minor, and wouldnt warrant a 
compensation award even if Id found that it had been caused by an error on Nationwides 
part.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman