DRN-3615263
The complaint
The executors of Mr Gs estate complained that the Aviva Equity Release UK Limited lifetime 
mortgage taken out by the late Mr and Mrs G in 2001 was mis-sold. They also said the Early 
repayment Charge (ERC) shouldnt have been charged when the property was sold in 
2016.
What happened
In November 2001 Mr and Mrs G took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. They borrowed 
£65,550 and the interest rate was fixed at 7.79% on an interest roll-up basis.
Mrs G needed residential care and so the house had to be sold. I wont go into the details of 
that here as the background is well known to both sides, but I can confirm Ive read and 
understood everything that has been said about it. 
The house was sold in September 2016 and the lifetime mortgage was repaid. At that time 
the balance of the mortgage was around £200,000 plus there was an ERC of around 
£61,700.
In July 2020 the executors complained to Aviva about the sale of the lifetime mortgage in 
2001. After some back and forth between Aviva and the executors, the complaint was 
referred to our service.
In November 2021 an ombudsman colleague issued a decision about our jurisdiction. She 
said that the only complaint point that had been brought within the time limits set out in our 
rules  and therefore fell within our jurisdiction  was whether or not the ERC should have 
been waived in 2016 when the mortgage was repaid. She said the rest of the complaint had 
been referred to us too late, including any complaint about the size of the ERC. 
Our investigator looked into whether or not the ERC should have been waived in 2016 and 
didnt uphold that complaint. To try to assist the executors, a second investigator obtained 
information about how the ERC was calculated and explained to them that it was fairly done.
As the executors didnt agree the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the executors are unhappy about the decision my colleague reached about our 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint. There has to be some finality in our process and it 
wouldnt be appropriate for us to continue to correspond about the same matters once an 
ombudsman has issued a decision on them. 
Having reviewed my colleagues decision I cant see that shes erred in her understanding of 
our rules, or in how she has applied them. I agree with the decision that she reached. My 
colleague said, in her findings:
The executor has set out many potential reasons the lifetime mortgage may have been 
mis-sold to Mr and Mrs G. One of those reasons is that they hadnt been aware at the time 
of the sale that they would have to pay so much to clear the mortgage, including not being 
aware such a large ERC could be charged.
It is clear from the executors comments that she discussed with Mr G the amount the 
mortgage had increased to and the size of the ERC, in 2016 before the property was sold. 
As such, I can only find that in 2016 Mr G and the executor (in her role as Mrs Gs attorney) 
knew they had cause for complaint and the three-year time limit started at that time.
As I agree with her findings, this decision wont be dealing with the complaint about the size 
of the ERC as that complaint wasnt made in time for the reasons my colleague has already 
explained. I also wont be considering how Aviva decided to set the ERC at the level it did, 
as that forms part of a complaint about the size of the ERC; by that I mean, if the complaint 
about the size of the ERC had been made in time, we would have considered how Aviva 
decided to set the ERC at the level it did as part of that.
All I will be considering is what happened in 2016 when the mortgage was redeemed  that 
is, whether Aviva treated Mr and Mrs G fairly in not agreeing to waive the ERC.
The executors have provided detailed information about the circumstances surrounding the 
complaint about the charging of the ERC, which Im grateful for. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The loan agreement set out the terms of the ERC and Mr and Mrs G accepted the terms of 
that agreement so that is the starting point for this complaint.
The lifetime mortgage contract allowed for the ERC not to be charged if the mortgage is 
being repaid either because the final borrower had died or needed long term care. Although 
Mrs G was moving into residential care (and met the definition of requiring long term care), 
Mr G didnt meet the definition of requiring long term care at the time the property was sold 
and so under the contract that had been entered into in 2001 the ERC was due.
I understand the executors feel this is unfair because Mr G wasnt choosing to sell the 
property, he needed to sell it to release Mrs Gs equity so her care fees could be paid. Id like 
to thank the executors for being so open about how this impacted them as family members, 
and how it affected Mr G. It was clearly a very difficult situation for all involved, and one that 
would have caused a great deal of stress.
Mr G was looking for a new property to move to so his part of the mortgage could be ported 
across, that way an ERC wouldnt have been incurred. The executors have said that 
following lengthy discussions with Aviva about the amount that could be lent against a 
smaller property, it wouldnt have been enough for what Mr G wanted. 
The first note about porting was in February 2016 when Mr G spoke to Aviva. The notes 
indicate he said Mrs G had gone into a care home, and he was planning to sell the property 
but wasnt sure if he wanted to repay the mortgage or transfer it. The notes indicate he said 
he would let Aviva know once he had decided.A moving property enquiry was completed on 11 May 2016 which was based on a sale price 
of £370,000 and a purchase price of £180,000. It said the mortgage (which was around 
£194,200 at the time) would need to be reduced by around £116,800 to take it to a maximum 
of 43% loan to value. 
Then on 17 May 2016 there is a note indicating one of the executors spoke to Aviva. She 
asked if Mr G was to move the lifetime mortgage to a new property, whether the contracts 
had to be exchanged on the same day and she was told they would. The notes indicate she 
said Mr G was still looking for another property. So it seems after the conversation about 
how much Mr G could borrow they were still looking to proceed with porting the mortgage as 
an option.
In any event, even if that wasnt the case, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Aviva did 
something wrong. The mortgage contract only allowed for the ERC to be waived if Mr G had 
long term care needs, and it was confirmed that he didnt meet that bar at the time. Whilst I 
note what the executors have said about his circumstances changing such that he would 
have met the definition a while later, that wasnt what the contract allowed for  it was 
dependent on Mr Gs circumstances at the time the mortgage was to be repaid. Aviva didnt 
treat the redemption of this mortgage any differently to any other redemption, and it wasnt 
required to. Aviva followed the terms and conditions of the mortgage contract and following 
those terms and conditions wasnt unfair.
The executors have said that they believe the concept of the ERC didnt envisage this 
specific situation arising, and instead they think the ERC was conceived to address different 
situations, such as consumers changing their mind or wanting to downsize.
Unfortunately I cant take into account what the executors believe the reason for the ERC 
was, just what the contract says and what I know about why ERCs are put in place in 
mortgage contracts. The contract set out the terms under which an ERC would be due and 
Aviva followed that. The ERC was correctly charged when the mortgage was repaid as Mr G 
didnt meet the definition of needing long term care, and there are no grounds for me to say 
Aviva should have waived the ERC in 2016.
I understand and appreciate Mr G and the executors found Avivas levying of an ERC 
unwelcome; but for the reasons Ive set out, it wasnt unfair, and thats the test I have to 
apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask the estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
22 September 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman