DRN-3698453
The complaint
Ms C, through her representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 
118 118 Money, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms C took one loan and the details are that it was for £2,000 taken in November 2020. It was 
scheduled to be 24 repayments of £128.68 a month. Ms C repaid it early in March 2021 and 
she received an interest rebate of about £646. 
After Madison had written to Ms C with its final response letter, in which it said it did not 
uphold her complaint, she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Madison had done 
anything wrong.
Ms Cs representative sent to us copies of her bank account statements for the period 
around the November 2020 lend date. Our adjudicator sent a second view in which he said 
that we found that the checks completed by Madison were sufficient based on the loan 
term and loan amount.
 The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms C  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Ms C wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms C and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms C. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Ms C undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms C. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint. Ive decided that I do not uphold her 
complaint. I explain here.
The loan application was for a relatively high sum of £2,000 over 24 months and Madison 
obtained information about Ms Cs monthly income (£2,458) and her declared outgoings 
(£409.74.) That does appear to have been her rent. 
Just having those figures does not seem to be enough information about Ms C before 
lending. But Madison also carried out a credit search. I have reviewed the full credit search 
results. That did not show a credit file which gave any cause for concern. 
A summary paragraph at the beginning of the credit search results says as follows and does 
not indicate a level of over-indebtedness  in fact it shows the opposite: 
Indebtedness Indicators
Total Balances (All): £ 2,761
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 2,142
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £ 5,250
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 40 %
There was a utility bill default for an account that opened in 2013 and the default date was 
January 2016 which was satisfied in August 2016. It was for a modest sum of around £155. 
And that was more than four years before Ms C applied for the Madison loan. 
There was one Advance against Income account which started in 2013 and in 2018 it 
looked as though she was in arrears on that account. Ms C had satisfied that account in February 2019. So, I do not consider that default or one set of arrears likely to have had 
much impact on Madisons decision. And the rest of that credit search shows a satisfactory 
record. 
The credit search results include an entry for what looks to have been a Madison credit card 
which commenced in August 2020 with a credit limit of £500. The repayments on that looked 
to have been regular and satisfactory. And likely would have been known to the Madison 
loan assessor which suggests to me that Madison would have had previous positive 
experience with Ms C as a customer of theirs. 
Madison carried out checks that I consider were proportionate to the amount Ms C was 
applying for and the term. Even if I did think that Madison ought to have carried out more 
thorough checks then I have one way to cross-refer what Madison may have seen if it had 
carried out additional checks. Ms Cs representative has sent to us copies of her bank 
account statements from June 2020 to November 2020. And I have reviewed those.
The transactions showing on those bank statements often are confusing as there are a lot of 
transfers between accounts which have not been explained to us by Ms C or her 
representative. Looking at the account transactions summary for the month 24 October to 
25 November 2020 it says that £24,102 was paid in and £24,152 was paid out. 
As I said earlier in this decision, many appear to be transactions between other accounts 
Ms C appears to have or is paying other people. And at the time that the Madison loan 
credited her account Ms C was already several thousands of pounds in credit. There 
followed a series of transfers of money out then a few days later more credits. 
And reviewing some of the earlier months I can see that the account was always in credit 
and Ms C was paying £250 a month by Standing Order into a savings account each month.
No submissions have been sent with those copy bank statements and so I am not entirely 
sure what Ms C wished to achieve by sending them. 
And even if Madison had gone further and had reviewed Ms Cs bank account statements 
I do not think that it would have had reason to be concerned that Ms C was unable to afford 
the £2,000 loan..
Ms C has said to us in her complaint form I found it easy to obtaon [sic] the loans at the time 
I was also borrowing from this lender to pay poff [sic] my other lenders. I used this loan as a 
consolidation loan for all my other payday lenders.
I have seen no evidence of this. Ms Cs contention through her representative on the 
complaint form that she was not able to afford this loan does not appear to be substantiated.
Ms C is professionally represented and what has been sent to us does not correlate with the 
suggestions of debt consolidation, or that Ms C needed to use the Madison loan to pay off 
other payday loans, or that she could not afford the Madison loan. 
I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman