DRN-3949107
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way in which Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (Red Sands) handled a claim under his home insurance policy following a burglary.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Red Sands includes its loss adjusters and agents in 
this decision letter.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr P reported a burglary at his home to the Police and Red Sands. He said 
that a significant amount of valuable jewellery and other items had been stolen. Red Sands 
asked for evidence of purchase and ownership of the items. Mr P produced certain evidence 
however Red Sands didnt consider that this was sufficient to support his claim. It provided 
Mr P with an opportunity to produce additional evidence. Mr P considered that Red Sands 
had acted in an unfair and unreasonable manner by asking for additional evidence.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps claim. He thought that Red Sands had asked Mr P 
reasonable questions. He didnt think that a valuation report and bank statements showing a 
cash withdrawal were sufficient. He also noted that Red Sands had provided extensions to 
enable Mr P to produce additional evidence.
Red Sands has since declined Mr Ps claim as Mr P didnt supply the additional information. 
Mr P remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether Red Sands applied Mr Ps policy and generally 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner in requesting additional evidence. I consider that it 
has, and Ill explain why. Firstly however, I turn to the submissions made by the parties. 
As to the burglary, Mr P said that when he returned to his property on the relevant date, he 
saw that a window had been broken, his safe had also been broken and the property was in 
a mess. He said that he rang the police straight away, and he also rang Red Sands and the 
emergency department to secure the property.
Mr P said that all relevant jewellery was by the time of the burglary stored at his home. He 
said hed paid for the items on different occasions with cash. He provided bank statements 
to show that he withdrew cash from his bank on relevant occasions when he said hed 
purchased specific jewellery items. Mr P said that the reason he didnt keep the relevant 
receipts was because the items were non-refundable once worn, although hed also said; I 
lost the receipt for [certain] jewellery I can't find it. Mr P however supplied a copy of a receipt 
relating to one designer item. Following Red Stones enquiries Mr P said that hed asked the 
jewellers where hed bought items for copy receipts. The jewellers informed him however 
that they didnt keep any individual receipts for more than three years, and only kept a total 
sales report for up to six years.
Mr P provided a jewellery valuation dated October 2021, together with a valuation certificate. 
The valuation listed the most valuable items which he said had been stolen. He said hed 
obtained this valuation on the advice of his insurers. The valuers didnt take any photographs 
as a part of its valuation process however Mr P produced his own photographic evidence of 
various items being worn by family members, displayed, or weighed. Mr P said that he didnt 
get to choose how to describe the items as the valuers had done so. However, Mr P said 
that in accordance with the policy wording, the proof of professional valuation was within 
three years of the relevant date and was under his name. He couldnt understand what more 
was needed and said; - I have provided everything I could possibly provide. Finally, he said 
that none of the stolen items were bought abroad. 
Mr P said that the ordeal had seriously affected his own and his familys health, and he 
considered that Red Sands had wanted to decline his claim from the start. He said that the 
jewellery represented his life savings.
I turn now to Red Sands submissions. It said that from the outset it had asked Mr P to 
provide photographs of the damage caused, as well as a list of all the stolen items, recent 
valuation certificates for all jewellery as well as proof of purchase. It considered that it 
couldnt progress Mr Ps claim as hed been unable to provide proof of purchase for the 
jewellery items
It explained that it had appointed loss adjusters to investigate and report on their findings. 
Due to the reported loss being of high value, it said that a thorough investigation had been 
required, to include the involvement of a jewellery expert. It noted that Mr P had produced 
evidence of certain cash withdrawals, but that; this did not necessarily evidence that the 
cash was withdrawn for jewellery purchases. It therefore asked for receipts for the jewellery. 
Red Sands referred to the jewellery valuation supplied by Mr P. It considered the valuation to 
be vague and that it gave generic rather than specific descriptions of jewellery items. It had 
therefore asked for a full valuation, including photographs the valuers had taken of each 
item, however none had been taken. It said it had; called other jewellers who concur that 
they always photograph the items and retain them to examine them properly for valuation 
purposes However, it acknowledged that Mr P had supplied his own photographs. Mr P 
had said that he didnt retain receipts or records for the sale of the jewellery as it was over 
three years ago, and hed not thought to keep the receipts. The loss adjusters thought that 
for tax purposes, shops were required to retain records for at least six years. Theyd also 
tried to contact the valuers regarding its valuations but had been unable to reach them. 
Red Sands stated that the loss adjusters recommendation was that the claim couldnt 
proceed without further information regarding the stolen jewellery. It referred to the relevant 
terms and conditions of the policy. It had initially stated that if Mr P could provide proof of 
ownership of the jewellery as requested, then it would be willing to review the claim. It said 
that following a telephone conversation with Mr P in early February 2023, it was clear that he 
hadnt been able to provide any additional information. Red Stones therefore considered it 
had received insufficient evidence and declined the claim.
Ive carefully considered the above submissions and all available evidence in reaching my 
decision. The policy wording provides the starting point for my decision and explains what 
will happen when a claim is made under the policy. In this case burglary events are covered 
in principle. Turning then to the relevant detail of the policy documentation, it says; -For any specified contents items or items listed that leave the home in this policy these 
require suitable proof of ownership for any claim to be paid for those items. This is either the 
original receipt in your name specifically identifying the item or a signed professional 
valuation within three years of 25/10/2021 issued in your name showing the date valued, a 
full description of the item, the unique serial number where the item has one, and where the 
valuer can be identified to check authenticity. We can only consider claims for items 
purchased in the United Kingdom unless an item purchased outside of the UK has had all 
UK taxes paid. 
I note that the policy requires production of either the original receipt in the policy-holders 
name, specifically identifying the item or a signed professional valuation within three years 
of the given date and issued in the policy-holders name, showing the date valued together 
with a full description of the item and where the valuer can be identified to check 
authenticity. I agree with Mr P therefore that in principle, a signed valuation can suffice in 
principle. However, a full description of the item and identification of the relevant valuer is 
also a requirement of the policy terms and conditions. In addition to this, if the insurer has 
legitimate concerns following investigation into a claim, then additional evidence may be 
required in any event.
I appreciate that Mr P provided photographs of various jewellery items and I can see that 
photographs he took of certain items on scales do match the weight shown in the valuation. 
He said that traditional jewellery had different names which he felt was clear. I appreciate 
that Mr P relied on the valuers description of his jewellery items. Its unfortunate however 
that the valuers descriptions of the items werent sufficiently precise, and they werent linked 
to its own valuation photographs of the jewellery. If it had done so, this may have provided 
clear, independent evidence of ownership and value of the relevant items so that there was 
a full description. I note that Red Stones had attempted to contact the valuers to seek 
further information but that its attempt had failed. The valuation doesnt clearly identify an 
individual valuer at the relevant firm, and this also means that the evidence falls short of the 
necessary requirements of the policy.
In addition, I understand that Mr P made a similar, high value insurance claim in 2020 which 
occurred in similar circumstances to the current claim. Im satisfied in the circumstances that 
it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Red Stones to require additional assurance and evidence 
in relation to the current high value claim. Red Stones had asked Mr P to provide 
photographs of the damage to his property, and whilst the matter was reported to the police 
and theres no reason to doubt the damage caused, I note that theres no available evidence 
to show the extent of this damage. 
Again, I appreciate that Mr P has gone to significant time and effort in supplying bank 
statements which he says show cash withdrawals which coincide with the purchase of 
specific jewellery items. Nevertheless, these do not provide persuasive evidence that Mr P 
purchased specific items, and do not confirm the sums which Mr P paid to any jewellers at 
the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied that these dont show a sufficient link between cash 
withdrawals and specific items. 
Mr P has been unable to produce receipts for any of the jewellery items. Whilst I note the 
reasons Mr P gives for not retaining these, I do not find the reasons given to be persuasive. 
These would normally be seen to be critical evidence of purchase, particularly for such high 
value items, some of which had been purchased relatively recently. I note that Mr P tried to 
obtain a receipt after the event, and that he was informed by the jewellers that they hadnt 
retained the receipts. Unfortunately for Mr P however, this doesnt change my final decision.
The appointment of loss adjusters and jewellery experts to conduct in-depth investigations is 
common in high value claims, to protect the insurance system from potential fraud and inflated claims. I therefore consider it fair and reasonable that Red Stones gave significant 
weight to its experts reports here. Following the in-depth investigations, the experts 
recommended that, without additional evidence, this claim should be declined. I agree with 
the investigator that the onus is on the policyholder to provide all necessary documentation 
and that the policy wording was clear as to what would be expected. I understand Mr Ps 
frustration however as he feels that hes provided all the information that he can. 
In conclusion, I cant say that Red Stones has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in 
requiring further evidence to validate Mr Ps claim even though Mr P has made it clear that 
he wont be able to produce any further evidence. I appreciate that this will come as a huge 
disappointment to Mr P. Hes paid his insurance premiums and has assumed that he would 
be covered for this type of event, having produced some evidence of ownership. However on 
the available evidence I consider this to be a fair outcome in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint or require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman