DRN-4002429
The complaint
Mr J and X are complaining that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) hasnt 
covered a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy for a leak from a shower.
X has largely acted on behalf of both Mr J and X.
What happened
Mr J and X had a buildings insurance policy taken out through a broker. The policy also 
included home emergency cover. AA provided the building insurance policy and the home 
emergency cover was provided by a different insurer. 
In January 2022 X contacted the broker to report a leak from the shower and asked for an 
emergency plumber to be sent out. The plumber visited the property but said he couldnt 
identify the source of the leak and said X would need to arrange someone to access the 
shower from the ceiling below.
X arranged this to be done and two sources of leaks were identified  one through a failed 
weeping valve and another due to failure of the tile grout. However, AA considered this to 
have gradually failed over time and it said theres no cover under the policy where this 
happens. And it said the photos of the ceiling below the shower showed the ceiling was 
stained and cracked. So it believed Mr J and X should have been reasonably aware there 
was an issue sooner than they reported it. So it declined to cover the claim.
X complained to AA as they said there were told their claim would be covered if they 
identified the leak, which they did. And they maintained they reported the leak as soon as 
they became aware of it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that the cause of the leak was 
down to gradual damage, which he said the policy didnt cover. He was also persuaded that 
Mr J and X should have reasonably been aware there was an issue sooner as he thought 
AA had shown that there was evidence of damage to the ceiling before the claim was 
reported.
X didnt agree with the investigator. She maintained AA had told them that it would cover the 
claim if they identified the leak. And she also maintained that they reported the leak the first 
time they became aware of it. She said they would have had no reason to postpone making 
the claim. But they also said, even if they agreed with the investigator that the damage 
wasnt covered, AA should still have covered the cost incurred in accessing the leak. They 
also said theyd made a data subject access request that they hadnt received. And they 
were unhappy the investigator had said he couldnt comment on that aspect of their 
complaint.
As Mr J and X didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
AA says its not required to cover the claim because it says the cause of the damage is down 
to gradual damage. In doing so, its referring to the following exclusion in the insurance 
policy:
This policy does not cover the following:
1. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear 
and tear, corrosion or similar causes.
Like most insurance policies, Mr J and X are covered for loss or damage arising from certain 
situations. Im satisfied that the failure of the weeping valve and grouting isnt down to one of 
these insured events, so isnt covered under the terms of the policy. However, the policy 
does, in certain circumstances, cover loss or damage to the property that subsequently 
arises from a leak. But, as I said, AA can decline a claim where it can show that this damage 
occurred as a result of something that happened over a period of time  such as a continual 
leak. So the strict interpretation of this is that theres no cover under the policy for any of the 
claim. However, Ive thought about whether this is fair.
X says they reported the incident to the insurer as soon as they became aware of the leak. 
But AA have also provided a photo of the ceiling which showed significant discolouration of 
the paint and cracking, which it says showed Mr J and X should have been aware of the 
leak. Ive reviewed the photograph AA has provided and I dont think the damage AA has 
referred to would have happened over a short period of time. It seems to me that its most 
likely this damage would have happened gradually. I can see weve also provided this 
photograph to X who hasnt given me anything to suggest that this is an unfair conclusion to 
reach. 
I note X says they had no reason to not report the claim to AA sooner. But Im also 
conscious that, in their response to the investigator, X said that they only realised they may 
be able to make a claim when the contacted their local plumbing company. Ultimately, taking 
everything into consideration, Im satisfied that all the damage arising from the leak has 
occurred over a period of time. So I cant reasonably say it was unfair for AA to say Mr J and 
X should have reasonably been aware there was an issue for a period of time before they 
made the claim.
Ive also considered Xs comment that, even if the damage claim isnt covered, AA should 
refund the cost of locating the leak. However, as I said above, the terms of the policy set out 
that theres no cover where its shown that the loss or damage has happened gradually. As 
Im satisfied that this is whats happened in the specific circumstances of this case, AA isnt 
liable to cover the cost in accessing the leak. Its possible this cost may be covered by a 
different policy  such as their home emergency policy. But Mr J and X will need to contact 
the insurer of that policy directly.
Ive considered Xs comment that AA said it would cover the claim if they identified the leak, 
but I havent seen anything to support this. And, in fact, I can see that AA did say to X a 
number of times that they wouldnt say whether the claim would be paid until they 
established the cause of the leak and accepted the claim. While I understand why X may 
have thought AA would pay the claim once the cause of the leak was established, I havent seen anything to support this. But even if AA did say this, it doesnt follow that it was 
required to settle the claim. Ultimately the claim isnt covered under the terms of the policy 
and any confusion that may have arisen doesnt change the terms of the policy.
I appreciate Mr J and X are unhappy that theyve incurred the cost in putting things right. Im 
not saying theyre at fault for the leak. But I cant say it was unfair for AA to say these costs 
arent covered under the terms of the home insurance policy.
Finally, I note X has complained that she hadnt received her data subject access request. 
But I havent seen anything to show that theyve raised a complaint with AA about not 
receiving the subject access request. I acknowledge they formally requested it before they 
brought the complaint to this service, but they need to raise a complaint with AA before we 
can get involved. So Im unable to consider this part of their complaint in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman