DRN-2413361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Leeds Permanent Building Society at the 
time, later taken over by Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy to protect their joint mortgage in May 1995. The 
mortgage was taken some time earlier in April 1991. 
Mr and Mrs R paid a monthly amount of £27.45 for the policy. The PPI covered Mr R only, 
and if he was too ill to work, or made involuntarily redundant  it would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £450 for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the policy was optional. And it had to get 
their consent before it added PPI to their account. Halifax says it would have done this. But 
Mr and Mrs R say they dont remember anything about the policy, and theyre sure they 
would not have taken it. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs R have said isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Halifax used around the time Mr and 
Mrs Rs policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an option to 
take out PPI. Also, Mr and Mrs R had held their mortgage for a number of years before the 
PPI was sold and theres no evidence that they increased their borrowing around this time. 
Because of this, I think Mr and Mrs R would have known the policy was optional. 
The premiums would have been charged separately, so if they didnt know what they were 
for, I would have expected them to have raised this with Halifax much sooner. As a result, 
considering everything, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were aware they 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. The sale took 
place some 25 years ago, so its understandable if Mr and Mrs R dont remember this now.
Mr and Mrs R cant remember whether they received any advice and Halifax hasnt been 
able to confirm this either. As a result, Halifax has treated the sale as though it did give 
advice and I think thats fair, because it puts more responsibility on Halifax. It means that as 
well as giving Mr and Mrs R enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it 
was suitable for them. So, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given and 
having done so, the policy appears to have been suitable for them. Although, Ive mainly 
focused on Mr Rs circumstances as he was the one covered by the PPI.
Mr R was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for him to claim, such as having a pre-existing 
medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. 
Mr R says he was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six months sick pay at 
around 80% to 90% of his salary. And that if he was off for longer than this, he would have 
been entitled to an ill health early retirement package. Mr and Mrs R also say they had 
between £15,000 and £18,000 in savings, but they werent sure on the exact amount. 
Our adjudicator asked Mr R if he could provide any evidence of his sick pay entitlement, but 
he wasnt able to. So, Ive thought about whether I think its likely Mr R had the level of sick 
pay he says he did, considering the industry he worked in and the job title he held. 
The level of sick pay Mr R says he was entitled to is generous compared to that offered by 
most employers and Im not aware of anything that would make Mr Rs employer different. In 
the absence of anything persuasive to support what Mr Rs told us, I dont think the likely 
sick pay he would have been entitled to would have meant the policy wasnt useful to him. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr R received. And he could have 
made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. So, I think the PPI could have been 
useful to Mr and Mrs R even if Mr R was entitled to generous sick pay. 
Mr and Mrs R were also unable to provide any evidence of their savings at the time. And 
Mr R said the figures he told us were an estimate and that it could have been less. So, 
without some evidence of the savings they held, I dont have enough to say the policy wasnt 
right for them. In addition, the PPI would have enabled them to use their savings for any 
other financial commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R at the 
time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs R.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs R all of the other information they needed  I 
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs R chose to take out 
the cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Rs home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs R and I dont think their PPI was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman