DRN-3878001
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) wont 
refund transactions it didnt make. 
What happened
Mr S, one of the directors of S, received a call from someone purporting to be from 
Amazons cyber security team. Mr S recalled he was told that someone had stolen his 
identity and opened another Amazon account  and that his banking details had been 
compromised and money had been taken. They asked for his help in sending money to 
entrap the fraudsters, saying this would allow Amazon to get back his lost funds and reward 
Mr S for his cooperation. 
They convinced Mr S to download remote access software on his devices and showed him 
news articles to corroborate what they were telling him. Afterwards they proceeded to set up 
the entrapment by sending money from his personal account. These were blocked by his 
bank and when Mr S refused to cooperate, the fraudsters moved money to Ss account with 
Tide where they made two payments totalling £24,990. 
S raised these payments with Tide, who declined to refund them. Unhappy, S brought his 
complaint to our service to investigate. During that time, Tide offered to refund 50% of the 
money lost to the scam, which S rejected. So the complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tide accepted these were unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr S failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
Ss personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Tide has shown 
Mr S failed with gross negligence. Or, in other words, that he acted with very 
significant carelessness; seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or acted so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done. Ill explain why. 
The caller pretended to be from Amazon's cyber security team and had information 
about his personal bank account  and ultimately, they led him to believe that his 
money was at risk. Taking this into account, I can see how Mr S initially trusted the 
caller and why he felt compelled to follow their instructions. Tide has raised some 
understandable points about things he could've questioned. But I'm mindful that it's 
easy to be critical of someone's actions with the benefit of hindsight. And here, Mr S 
was acting under pressure as someone who, like most people, wasn't an expert in 
cyber security. And he ultimately thought he was doing the right thing and he could 
lose out if he didn't act. So, in the context of this scam, I'm not persuaded Tide's 
points mean he showed a very significant degree of carelessness.
Tide also submit that codes were entered on Mr Ss device to complete the 
payments. But given theyd remote access on his phone, I think its likely that the 
fraudsters wouldve intercepted these and completed the steps themselves. So Im 
not persuaded this meant Mr S failed with gross negligence. 
Tide have also commented on how Mr S watched this all happened over some time, 
so he should've acted sooner to stop the remote access. Having listened to the calls 
between Tide and Mr S, it sounds like he saw what they were doing when they were 
setting up the payment to entrap the fraudsters  that makes sense, as it was part of 
the narrative of the scam. But its not clear he watched everything that took place 
afterwards. From our experience dealing with similar scams, we know how often 
fraudsters will manipulate or mask someones screen when theyre using remote 
access  so they dont realise the extent of whats going on. I find it likely theyd have 
done that here, rather than risk Mr Ss intervention. 
And even if Mr S was privy to some of it, Im conscious that lots of people wouldnt 
know how to effectively respond and stop fraudsters with remote access  
particularly when theyre panicked by whats going on. So Im not persuaded it would 
mean that Mr Ss actions fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done. 
It follows that Im not convinced Tide has shown Mr S failed with gross negligence. 
So S isnt liable and Tide needs to put things right, by refunding S for these 
unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate it for the time its been 
out of pocket.
Tide has questioned whether it ought to be fully liable for these transactions given 
that money was transferred from a different bank. Ive considered how under the 
PSRs, its liable to restore Ss account for these unauthorised transactions. And I 
dont consider this will unjustly enrich S  because its not been compensated for 
these losses elsewhere. So Im satisfied that its fair to require Tide to refund the 
transactions in full. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ss complaint. ClearBank Limited must: 
Pay S the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman