DRN-4392287
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc was charging too much for her pet 
insurance policy. 
What happened
When Ms S took out a lifetime insurance policy for her cat with Allianz in 2021, the premium 
was £370.26. When the policy renewed in 2022, the premium increased to £435.05 and in 
2023 to £513.36.
Ms S complained to Allianz about the amount of the increase in premium as her cat was still 
relatively young.
Allianz said its pricing team uses claims data and veterinary knowledge to understand the 
types of illnesses, treatments and injuries associated with particular breeds and species. It 
also takes into account vets fees and the volume of claims in Ms Ss area. It said Ms Ss 
premiums had increased by 17.5% and 18% respectively based on this information. It said it 
couldnt share with her the matrix used to calculate the premium as this was business 
sensitive information.
Ms S brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended that it be upheld 
in part. He didnt think Allianz had given Ms S sufficiently clear information about the long-
term costs of a lifetime policy when she took it out. He thought Allianz should pay her £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by that.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the large increases in Ms Ss premiums over the last two years, I can understand her 
concerns. She took out a lifetime policy for her cat so that her pet would be covered for any 
conditions which developed over the rest of his life so long as the policy cover continued. But 
this sort of policy is usually more expensive and the cost will almost certainly increase every 
year due to the higher risk of a claim as the pet gets older, as well as general increases in 
veterinary costs.
Insurers will also consider other factors when setting premiums. For instance, typically an 
insurer will also assess the number and value of the claims it thinks it will receive and pay, 
as well as its costs of administration. It will review those factors every year when setting the 
price for its policies. And it does that for all policyholders.
I need to be satisfied that Ms S hasnt been singled out in any way and that Allianz has 
treated all comparable customers fairly and equally. Ive carefully reviewed the information 
Allianz has sent us and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it has treated Ms S any 
differently from how it would have treated any other customer in the same position. So I cant 
say the premium charged to Ms S was unfair or require Allianz to charge her a lower 
premium in future.
I appreciate that Ms S would like to see the information weve received from Allianz for 
herself. Unfortunately we are unable to share it with her as it is commercially sensitive.
When considering complaints about the increasing cost of a lifetime pet insurance policy I 
also look at the information given to the policyholder when they first bought the policy to see 
how clearly the long-term costs of the policy were explained. But generally its not my role to 
tell an insurer what price it should charge for the risk it covers or what factors it should take 
into account when assessing those risks.
When purchasing this policy online, Ms S was informed (prior to going through to the 
payment section) that the price would rise over the life of her pet. This was under a section 
headed How your premium can change which was located just underneath the Total Price 
breakdown. Allianz cited the pets age and increasing veterinary costs as the reasons why 
this would be the case. This information was also explained in the Important Product 
Information Document (IPID) which was provided to the customer when the policy was taken 
out and on renewal since then. 
Under the heading How your premium can change, the IPID says your pets age, 
increasing veterinary costs and advancements in veterinary medicine can all affect the 
premium you pay. These mean your premium will increase over the lifetime of your policy. 
Your premium may also change if you move address. However, Petplan will not increase 
your premium as a direct result of any claim you make.
On the day after Ms S took out the policy in 2019 (and so within the 14-day cancellation 
period) she phoned Allianz to query amongst other things the future increases in premium. 
She asked on what basis the premium would go up every year. Allianzs call handler told her 
the main factors were her pet getting older and vets fees going up.
I dont expect sellers of this type of insurance to be in a position to tell a consumer exactly 
how much their future premiums will be  they wont have this information. But they do know 
that as the pet gets older, these increases can be significant. Ms Ss cat was already around 
five years old although his exact age was disputed. Allianz was also aware that the 
increases in premium arent capped, so theres no upper limit on the premium on each 
renewal.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Allianz made it sufficiently clear to Ms S when 
she bought the policy that the premium on her lifetime policy could increase significantly on 
renewal.
Ive considered what is likely to have happened if Ms S had been given better information 
about the future cost of the policy when she first took it out. As she took out lifetime cover, I 
think she wanted the greater protection such a policy offers and she might well have still 
taken out the policy. But I think the lack of clarity on the part of Allianz about the likely level 
of future premiums on renewal caused Ms S an unpleasant surprise. It seems to me fair that 
Allianz should compensate Ms S for that.
Putting things right
I think its reasonable for Allianz to pay Ms S £150 compensation for her trouble and upset.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Ms S £150 compensation for 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman