DRN-2426219
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) provided her with a credit card
and increased the limit. She says they lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms P opened a credit account with Aqua in December 2012 with an initial credit limit of £250.
The limit was increased on the following occasions:
In April 2013 to £600;
In November 2013 to £1,000;
In August 2014 to £1,750; and
In March 2015 to £2,500.
In 2016, Ms P was struggling to make repayments. Aqua agreed a repayment plan in
February. Later that year, Ms P contacted a debt management company. Aqua also sent a
default notice in December. Following this, Aqua sold the debt to a third party in June 2017
and recorded a default on Ms Ps credit file.
Ms P raised a complaint with Aqua in February 2020. She felt that had they properly
checked her credit record, Aqua would have seen she had lots of short term, high interest
lending and that she wouldnt be able to repay her balance within a reasonable period.
Aqua responded in May 2020. They agreed that they shouldnt have increased the credit
limit in February 2015 because the way Ms P was managing her account had changed. They
felt they had acted reasonably in respect of the other increases.
The investigator issued their view explaining why he felt the refund that Aqua had issued
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and he didnt ask them to do anything further. 
The investigator also explained why he felt that we couldnt look into Ms Ps concerns about 
the card being issued in 2012 and the limit increases in April and November 2013. He said 
they fell outside of our time limits.  
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators view about how Aqua should put things right. She
felt that 8% simple interest should be added to the amount refunded. She also didnt agree
the default was fairly recorded on her credit file. Therefore, the case has passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision about the merits of the complaint on 17 September 2021. I 
said: 
The rules and regulations at the time Aqua increased the credit limit in July 2014 and 
February 2015 required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
whether Ms P would be able to repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check.
The check must be borrower focussed. This means Aqua needed to think about 
whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Ms P. Also, the checks must be proportionate and what constitutes 
a proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors. By way of example, such 
factors might include the amount of credit being borrowed and the consumers 
current situation and outlook.
Limit Increase  August 2014
Aqua increased Ms Ps credit limit from £1,000 to £1,750. This was a significant 
increase and I would expect to see Aqua gather some external information about Ms 
Ps financial circumstances before agreeing to increase the limit. As well as, taking 
into consideration how well Ms P managed her account, particularly since her credit 
limit was previously increased in November 2013.
So, Ive thought about the information Aqua had about Ms Ps account management. 
I can see from the evidence that Ms P did on occasion exceed her credit limit. But 
these were by relatively small amounts. And Im not persuaded these occasions were 
enough to indicate that she may have difficulty repaying additional credit. This is also 
because I can see she brought the account back within the credit limit relatively 
quickly.
Ive also considered what information Aqua obtained from an external credit 
reference agency. Having done so, I cant see there was any indication that might 
have alerted Aqua that the credit limit increase would be unaffordable to Ms P in 
respect of her financial situation and her other borrowing.
However, I do note that they didnt receive information about payday lending at this 
time and I think this is something they should have been mindful of. If Ms P was 
borrowing money from payday lenders, this might have meant increasing the credit 
limit was unaffordable because its a factor which reasonably could affect her ability 
to repay credit sustainably. I note this is information they now receive.
However, Im not persuaded had Aqua obtained this information that their decision to 
lend would have changed or that it meant their decision was irresponsible. This is 
because Ive reviewed the credit report provided by Ms P and I note the accounts 
highlighted therein. I can see she had a history of payday and short-term lending. But 
they appear to have been settled by the time of this increase. Having a history of 
payday lending doesnt necessarily mean that a later limit increase was irresponsible, 
particularly where the accounts appear to have been settled.
I should also note that from the information I have it appears Ms P was able to 
manage this credit limit. I understand she didnt notify Aqua of financial difficulties 
until February 2016. So, this is an additional reason which indicates the limit increase 
was affordable at the time.
For the reasons outlined above, Im not persuaded Aqua irresponsibly increased Ms 
Ps credit limit in July 2014.
Limit Increase  March 2015Aqua have accepted they shouldnt have increased Ms Ps credit limit to £2,500 
because of the change in her account management. In order to put things right they 
paid Ms P £587.90 which was made up of the charges (£96), fees (£132), interest 
(£338.90) and cash advance fees (£21).
However, Ms P also says that 8% simple interest should be added. Ive considered 
this carefully. In some cases, we might consider awarding 8% simple interest. If we 
direct a lender to make a refund or waive charges and interest because theyve lent 
irresponsibly then this reduces the amount owed by the borrower. And if the borrower 
has been making repayments, this could mean the borrower has actually overpaid. 
Therefore, we might ask the lender to pay 8% simple interest on the amount which 
has been overpaid. 
However, in this case the debt was sold on to a third-party debt collection agency 
and Ms P reached a settlement. She paid back less than what was owed. And 
importantly the reduction exceeded the amount refunded by Aqua. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded its reasonable for Aqua to also pay 8% simple interest as it doesnt 
appear Ms P overpaid.
Ms P also says the negative entry should be removed from her credit file and she is
concerned that it was recorded much later than her other defaults. However, Aqua 
have a duty to report activity accurately to credit agencies. Having considered the 
facts, Im not persuaded Ms P would have been able to avoid the default marker 
even if Aqua hadnt increased her credit limit on this occasion. This is because she 
would still have had a card with a credit limit and other borrowing. I appreciate that 
Ms P will be disappointed by this, but its not appropriate in the circumstances to ask 
them to remove it.
Ms P has also said Aqua delayed recording the default. Aqua have said the default 
was recorded fairly and asked me to consider the relevant regulations which I can 
assure them I have considered. And I note the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) says that a default should be recorded when an account is three months in 
arrears, and it would expect an account to be defaulted before six months of arrears. 
Aqua registered the default after seven months of arrears. Aqua have explained this 
was only an additional month and they arent required to register the default within 28 
days of the default notice. They dont feel that this is an unreasonable or excessive 
delay in reporting as it reflected seven consecutive months of missed contractual 
payments.
Ive considered the requirements, but my role is to consider whats fair in the 
circumstances. As such, Ive considered the reasons the default wasnt recorded 
sooner. I can see a default notice was sent on 13 December 2016 and Ms P was 
given until 3 January 2017 to repay the arrears. The default notice explained that if 
Aqua didnt receive the proposed amount within 28 days of the date of the letter then 
they would pass details of the default onto a credit reference agency. And I note by 
January 2017 she was in arrears by two months.
Given the information set out in the default notice, I can see no reason that 
persuades me it was reasonable to wait until June 2017 to register the default. I 
understand Aqua had previously arranged a repayment plan with Ms P after she told them about her financial difficulties. They were first notified of her situation in 
February 2016. Therefore, when Ms P still hadnt brought her arrears up to date by 
the deadline in the notice, it was reasonably clear that her situation wasnt going to 
change so that she could make the repayments.
Therefore, I minded to say Aqua should have recorded the default sooner
In my provisional decision, I went on to explain how I thought Aqua should put things right. I 
said: 
Aqua have already refunded Ms P £587.90 which is made up of charges, fees, 
interest and cash advance fees. This is in line with what I would expect. And Ive 
already explained why we wouldnt add 8% simple interest to the payment in these 
circumstances.
However, Ive also not been persuaded that it was fair for Aqua to record the default 
when they did. And I think that they should amend the date of the default so it is 
recorded at three months from when Ms P paid less than the contractual amount in 
December 2016. So, it should be amended to 3 February 2017.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
I didnt receive a response from Ms P. Aqua responded to say they had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision.  
Putting things right
I explained how I thought Aqua should put things right in my provisional decision. Having 
thought about this, I remain of the view that Aqua should arrange for the date of the default 
to be amended. This is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and the reasons for 
this are outlined above. 
My final decision
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have already refunded Ms P £587.90. 
In addition, NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should arrange for the date of the default to be 
amended so it is recorded as 3 February 2017.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman