DRN-3404536
The complaint
C, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard failed to 
notify it before debiting a chargeback from its account.
C wants Barclaycard to refund the chargeback.
What happened
In April 2021, C took a card payment from its customer of around £680 over the phone.
When C received a statement from Barclaycard in early June 2021, it saw the payment from 
the customer was subject to a chargeback. The reason for this was that the genuine card 
holder hadnt authorised or been party to the transaction.
C was unhappy that Barclaycard hadnt given it prior notice of the chargeback as it couldve 
given the police video evidence to help with its investigation.
The investigator told C that due to a system error, although Barclaycard generated a letter 
about the chargeback, it wasnt sent. However, the investigator didnt think that this wouldve 
made a difference due to the nature of the transaction  Card Not Present (CNP). A CNP 
transaction is at higher risk of chargebacks making it very difficult for Barclaycard to defend 
the chargeback on Cs behalf.
As the investigator didnt recommend that Cs complaint be upheld and C was unhappy with 
this, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn that C has been the victim of fraud and lost money as a result but for the 
reasons Ive set out below, I dont uphold its complaint.
Its accepted that Barclaycard didnt tell C about the chargeback in May 2021. C says this 
meant that by time it was aware of the problem, C could no longer access any video 
evidence which mightve helped to identify the fraudster. 
Ive no reason to doubt what C says but I dont consider it wouldve altered the outcome of 
the chargeback. Seeing the video evidence and knowing the fraudsters identity wouldnt 
have changed the fact that the genuine card holder didnt authorise the payment to C. 
Without evidence that the genuine card holder had authorised the payment, such as a chip 
and PIN sales receipt, Barclaycard couldnt successfully defend the chargeback  regardless 
of the delay in notifying C.
If a card issuer or account provider requests a refund of money already paid and raises a 
chargeback, its for the merchant  in this case C  to pay the disputed amount back to 
Barclaycard. The terms of Cs account with Barclaycard say that authorisation of a card 
payment is not a guarantee of payment and it does not prevent us from recovering a 
chargeback. The terms also set out the circumstances in which a chargeback can occur. 
These include if a cardholder or account holder denies authorising a card-not-present 
transaction. 
Barclaycards procedure guide warns customers that there are increased risks associated 
with accepting Card Not Present transactions. There are increased risks of chargebacks for 
Card Not Present transactions because the customer and card are not present at the time of 
transaction and so cannot always be verified. So, I cant say that Barclaycard didnt make C 
aware that accepting CNP transactions carried risks that C would be responsible for. 
Overall, I dont find Barclaycards delay in sending C notification of the chargeback led to a 
loss for C. So, I dont require Barclaycard to take any steps to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman