DRN-1981106
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs K was involved in a collision with another driver and she made a claim. One Insurance 
settled the claim as 50/50 split liability, but Mrs K said shed been pressurised into accepting 
this. She was also unhappy with the repairs to her car, the level of customer service she 
received, and that her No Claims Bonus (NCB) was affected. One Insurance agreed that its 
level of service could have been better, and it paid Mrs K £200 compensation. It referred her 
to her broker to deal with the NCB issue.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought One 
Insurance hadnt investigated the claim fully before offering to deal with it as split liability. 
She thought it should obtain the other drivers version of events and reconsider its decision. 
She thought it should pay Mrs K £250 compensation for its poor investigation and for 
keeping the claim open. She thought it should deal with the NCB issues when the claim was 
settled. But she thought it had justified its decision not to pay for further repairs and had 
provided enough compensation for the service issues. 
One Insurance replied that it couldnt see any benefit in obtaining the other drivers version 
of events. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaints come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs K the same as someone else in her position. 
One Insurance is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs K to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs K has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
So Ive looked to see how One Insurance investigated Mrs Ks claim. Looking at One 
Insurances file notes, it initially thought, from Mrs Ks description of the circumstances, the 
claim would be non-fault. But the other insurer held Mrs K responsible. One Insurance told 
her it would argue this. 
One Insurance said there were no independent witnesses, CCTV footage or dashcam 
footage available. So it offered to settle the claim 50/50 split liability due to lack of evidence 
to prove either parties version of events. 
I can see that Mrs K provided her version of events, and One Insurance shared this with the 
other insurer. But I cant see that One Insurance obtained the other drivers account. Instead 
it relied on the other insurers statement that it held Mrs K responsible and so it thought the 
best possible outcome would be 50/50.  
One Insurance made this offer to the other insurer. But I can see from its file that it also 
wanted further information about Mrs Ks journey at the time. I cant see whether or not it 
obtained this. But in the meanwhile, the other insurer accepted the offer of split liability.
So One Insurance made its liability decision without receiving and considering any evidence 
from the other driver, such as their version of events and the damage caused to their car. It 
may be that this wouldnt have changed the outcome for Mrs K. But I think One Insurance 
should have reasonably completed these basic enquiries before changing its mind and 
holding Mrs K partly liable. 
So I think One Insurance hasnt reasonably investigated the claim and I think it should revisit 
it, obtain the missing evidence and consider it before making its decision on liability. As our 
investigator has explained, if Mrs K remains unhappy, she can complain again to One 
Insurance. 
Mrs K will then have an open claim. The investigator recommended that One Insurance 
should pay her £250 compensation for this inconvenience and for not investigating her claim 
sufficiently. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar situations. 
Mrs K was unhappy that her NCB was affected by the claim. One Insurance told her this 
would be a matter for her broker. But I disagree. I can see that in Section 8 of Mrs Ks policy 
its One Insurance that will reduce the bonus in the event of a claim. So I think this is 
something that it should be responsible for. I think once it has investigated and considered 
the claim fully it should decide the effect on Mrs Ks NCB in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs K said there were still repairs (tyre and wheel arch) to be made to her car. But I can see 
that One Insurance instructed an independent assessor and obtained a report from the 
repairing garage that these issues were unrelated to the accident and were pre-existing. I 
havent seen any further expert engineering evidence that One Insurance should have 
considered. So I think it justified its decision not to pay for these repairs. 
One Insurance paid Mrs K £200 compensation for its service issues. One Insurance agreed 
that it hadnt provided updates or resolved Mrs Ks concerns when she raised them. I think 
its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in 
similar circumstances.
Putting things right
I think One Insurance should:1. Obtain the other drivers version of events and engineering report and consider this 
further evidence before deciding the outcome of Mrs Ks claim and the effect on her 
NCB.
2. Pay Mrs K £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it keeping 
her claim open and for not investigating the claim fully before making its liability decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require One Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman