DRN-3397184
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) reduced his overdraft limit from £5,000 
to £2,050 without any grounds or prior notification.
What happened
Mr U had a bank account with Santander with an arranged overdraft facility of £5,000. 
Following a review of the account Santander wrote to Mr U on 10 August 2021 giving notice 
that it had made the decision to reduce the overdraft limit to £2,050 effective from 1 October 
2021. 
Mr U complained to Santander that his overdraft limit was reduced dramatically without prior 
warning. Santander said it had written to Mr U giving notice about the reduction in the 
overdraft limit and that there was no reason at its end why the letter wouldnt have been 
received. 
Mr U was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Us concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr U unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr U disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr U is complaining that Santander reduced the overdraft limit on his account. Before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the banking 
facilities Santander is offering Mr U are fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services a bank 
offers  including how much money it is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Just like it 
is up to Mr U to decide whether to accept what Santander is offering or to take his business 
elsewhere. And providing Santander gave Mr U the correct notice of the change in his 
overdraft limit in line with the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to 
get involved with. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Us account under 7.4 b) say that:
We have the right to change your Arranged Overdraft limit at any timeWe will usually give 
you 30 days notice of our intention to change your Arranged Overdraft limit.
Santander have provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr U on 10 August 2021 giving him 
notice that his overdraft limit will be reduced from 1 October 2021. This is more than the 30 
days notice required in the terms and conditions of the account. Mr U says he never 
received the letter but the letter is correctly addressed and while it is possible that letters 
sometimes arent delivered correctly  more often than not they are. And I havent been 
given any specific reason why Mr Us letter might not have arrived. So I think its likely it was 
delivered correctly to Mr U. 
I understand Mr U may be unhappy about the sudden reduction in his overdraft limit, but 
overdraft lending is supposed to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing and a bank does 
have a duty to ensure that any lending it makes is affordable. So I cant say that Santander 
has done anything wrong when on review of Mr Us overdraft facility it took the decision to 
reduce the level of debt. And I havent seen any evidence that an error was made on its part 
in giving the required notice to do this.
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as Santander has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman