DRN-4223559
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd repeatedly told him he could cancel his application for a 
store-branded card that hed been accepted for, and reapply later, in order to defer an 
introductory offer. But Mr Ps applications were rejected, because he reapplied too soon.
What happened
Mr P said he was told in August 2022 that a store branded credit card he uses was closing, 
and transferring its brand to a new provider, NewDay. His current card would stop working at 
the end of 31 October 2022. 
Mr P said he applied for a new store branded card with NewDay on 10 September, but then 
realised that the opening offer, of triple points on purchases at the store for the first 90 days, 
would end before the Christmas and New Year holiday period. Mr P said a family member 
works for the store chain, so he uses that store a lot. 
Mr P spoke to NewDay, and said he and it agreed that the best thing to do was to cancel his 
application, and reapply later, in good time before Christmas. He did reapply, but he said 
that by late October he still hadnt got a new card, and his old one was due to expire. 
Mr P said it took a considerable number of conversations with NewDay before it finally told 
him that it wouldnt let former customers reapply for a card within a couple of months. Mr P 
said he went to a store, and spoke directly to NewDay through an internal call. It was only 
then that he was told he couldnt make a new application for some months. 
Mr P complained, he said he was poorly advised, and as a result missed out on financial 
benefits. He said this took a lot of his time. And he said he had to change his direct debits, 
and reapply for a new card with a different provider. He wanted NewDay to apologise and 
provide compensation for the inconvenience, the time this all took, and the lost rewards. 
NewDay said it was sorry it hadnt told Mr P that he wouldnt be able to reapply quickly, if he 
cancelled his completed application. Instead, it had told him that he should reapply, which 
meant Mr P made further applications which were never going to be accepted. NewDay said 
it would pay Mr P £35 in compensation, which it later increased to £50. 
NewDay now says that applicants who have previously been approved for a card, have to 
wait for around 6 months for applying again. It has told our service that Mr P is able to apply 
for a new account now, if he would like. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr P was given incorrect 
information, several times, so he thought NewDay should increase its compensation, and 
pay Mr P £100. But he said Mr P had already applied for an account, and would not have 
been eligible to reapply, when he was given wrong information. So Mr P couldnt have 
benefitted from the introductory offer over Christmas, regardless of NewDays advice. 
Mr P disagreed. He said the compensation offered fell substantially short of the time spent, 
together with the inconvenience and distress caused by the matter. He said the time hed 
lost, if he calculated it, would be much more than wed suggested as compensation. As no 
agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I realise that NewDay has given Mr P some wrong advice here. But I dont think that advice 
is what prevented Mr P from benefitting from the introductory offer on this store card over the 
Christmas and New Year period. 
Mr P made his application for his new card in early September. So any bonus points offer on 
his new card, available for 90 days, would have ended at the start of December. Mr P told us 
he wanted this offer to cover the Christmas and New Year period, and was advised that he 
could achieve this if he cancelled this application and reapplied shortly after. 
We now know this advice was wrong, because NewDay wouldnt accept another application 
from him for about six months. But if Mr P hadnt been wrongly advised at this stage, he 
could still only have benefitted from the opening offer until the start of December.
In response to our investigators view and suggested compensation, Mr P has focussed on 
the amount of his time this issue had taken up. Mr P said compensation of £100 wasnt 
enough, because he thought that didnt cover the time spent, including the inconvenience 
and distress this caused. He said if he worked out his lost time, including the time to visit 
what is now his nearest store in person, it would be significantly more than our 
recommendation. 
I note that Mr P told us that he has a family member who works for the store chain in 
question. When he initially referred his complaint to us, he said he uses that store a lot. And 
theres been no suggestion that NewDay had told him he needed to attend a store in person. 
So its not clear either that Mr P made a special trip to the store for the sole purpose of 
resolving the issues with his card, or that NewDay would be responsible for that, if he did so. 
I know Mr P wasnt able to use a card he wanted, for spending over the Christmas and New 
Year period. And I do accept that NewDay has provided him with incorrect information, both 
in telling him that he could withdraw an application then reapply quickly, and in not being 
clear about the reasons why this later application then failed. So I do accept that this has 
been an inconvenience for him, and some of his time has been wasted. But I think Mr P 
would have been able to take up an introductory offer on a different card for his holiday 
spending, to reduce his losses. And I dont think it would be appropriate here to provide 
compensation based on the cost of Mr Ps time. Rather, I have looked at this complaint as a 
whole, to assess its impact. And here, I do think that a payment of £100 does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So, although I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed, I dont propose to ask NewDay to pay more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd must pay Mr P £100 in compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman