DRN-1819899
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Origen Financial Services Limited. He is unhappy about the way 
it handled a potential pension transfer and about the charges it has made for its advice.
What happened
Mr B was introduced to Origen by his pension provider as he wanted to access tax-free cash 
(TFC) from his pension as he reached 55 years of age. Mr B says that the pension provider 
told him that it would be quicker to use Origen who were there preferred partners.
Mr B had a telephone discussion with an adviser from Origen on 20 March 2019. Mr Bs 
objectives and wider financial affairs were discussed, and a fact-find completed.
Mr B had said that he wanted to use the TFC to expand his business, pay his sons school 
fees, undertake home improvements and invest the remainder as emergency cash. The 
adviser had explained that it would not be usual to recommend drawing on the pension to 
invest elsewhere as the funds were already invested.
On the 25 March 2019, Mr B signed a client fee agreement. This agreement set out an 
agreed fee of £2,160 for pension drawdown advice in relation to his pension plan which had 
a fund value of £144,000. The charge was 1.5 per cent of the fund.
Mr B was provided with an Advice and Recommendation report dated 13 May 2019 which he 
says he received on 18 May 2019. This report recommended transfer of the personal 
pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The SIPP would allow flexible income 
drawdown and a wider choice of investments. These options were not available to the 
personal pension.
Significantly, the maximum TFC that was recommended in the report was £16,000 which 
was less than Mr B hoped to receive. The TFC was to be allocated primarily to pay off 
existing credit card debts with a balance of around £4,000 allocated for home-improvements.
The adviser sought Mr Bs response, and this ultimately led to a conversation on 29 July 
2019 when Mr B was told that he would be invoiced for the work to date.
Mr B made a complaint to Origen in August 2019. He said he was unhappy as he wanted to 
take a higher amount of TFC, up to £36,000. He was also unhappy with the delay. It had 
taken 8 weeks for him to get the report when he was told it would be only 4 weeks.
Origen didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it had to provide advice that was 
suitable and appropriate for him. It said that Mr B hadnt always responded promptly.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. He said that he had instructed a 
new adviser who had allowed him to access the full TFC within 4 weeks.
The complaint was considered by an investigator who decided that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Origen had explained its services and potential turnaround times.
The time taken to provide the report was reasonable.
Pensions advice is highly regulated requiring due diligence and the provision of 
suitable advice.
The fee agreement was clear about charges.
There was a forecast shortfall in retirement income needs and so it wasnt 
unreasonable to advice against taking the maximum TFC.
Mr B didnt agree. He reiterated that he was led to believe that he could access his full TFC 
and thats why he signed the fee agreement.
The investigator didnt change his view and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this will disappoint Mr B, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I dont uphold this complaint.
Im not satisfied that there was any unreasonable delay in Origen providing the advice. The 
advice was provided within 8 weeks or so. This included a period of almost 2 weeks when 
Origen was waiting on Mr B for information. Mr B says he was told it would take only 4 
weeks, but that seems to be something he was told by the pension provider and not by 
Origen itself. Im not satisfied that Origen misled him about timescales.
The fee agreement is very clear. It includes the following statement:
If you have chosen a fee only payment option, you agree to pay a fee for our advice and/or
services whether you buy a product or not
The fee payable is set out as a monetary sum as well as a percentage of the fund value.
Its not the role of this service to assess and determine whether fees are reasonable or 
proportionate, but to consider whether fees have been set out clearly and transparently. In 
this case I believe they were.
I appreciate that Origen didnt give Mr B the advice he wanted, but Origen wasnt in a 
position just to do what Mr B wanted. As the investigator has said, it was under a regulatory 
duty to give advice that was suitable for Mr B, and in his best interest. I dont think the advice 
given was unsuitable. There was good reason to recommend against Mr B taking the full 
TFC. All projections suggested that there was likely to be a shortfall in the stated income 
needs at retirement. So, it wasnt unreasonable in my view to limit the TFC taken at the time. 
This was effectively limited to an amount which was enough to cover credit card debts and I 
dont think that was bad advice. One of the creditors had offered a reduced settlement 
which, as the investigator said, suggests that Mr B had been in some difficulty paying this.
Although Mr B and his partner were anticipating an inheritance, this seems to have been 
considered in the advice with the recommendation that this could be applied to reduce or 
pay off the outstanding mortgage on their home.Mr B says that another adviser gave different advice a year later. That doesnt mean 
Origens advice was wrong. Professional advisers will have different opinions, that is the 
nature off giving advice, and Im not satisfied that the advice Origen gave was unsuitable.
So, in all the circumstances, I dont think Origen has acted unfairly or unreasonably so I cant 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman