DRN-3245060
The complaint
 Mr K complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys)  defaulted his loan and passed the 
debt to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr K had a loan from Sainsburys, and he was struggling to make the payments. In 2015, 
he fell behind with repayments. In July 2015, Sainsburys sent Mr K a Notice of Default and 
the default was registered on 16 September 2015. In April 2017, Mr K agreed to pay a final 
amount of £10,390 in settlement of the outstanding balance of £13,845. Sainsburys 
agreed to this and said theyd showed the debt as partially settled on his credit file. The 
agreed payment was to be in six instalments of £1,732. The first five were paid, but the 
final one wasnt, leaving a balance of £1,732. Sainsburys sold the outstanding debt to a 
debt collection agency (DCA).
Mr J complained. He said he thought the last instalment had been paid. The default wasnt 
fair  he had been paying in £1 a month to avoid that. As a result, he could get any credit 
 which he needed to do. He didnt know the outstanding debt had been sold to a debt 
collection agency. He said he only found out recently when they wrote to him to ask for 
payment. His debt was fully paid up and so should not have been marked as partially 
settled but fully settled on his credit file.
In their final response, Sainsburys said theyd agreed to accept a settlement of £10,390 
for the debt, but only £8,660 had been paid by Mr K. The remaining balance was sold to a 
debt collection agency. If Mr K could provide proof that hed made the sixth payment, they 
would close the account. So  they said theyd acted fairly.
Mr K didnt agree with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said 
Sainsburys had fairly issued a Notice of Default in July 2015 and registered the default in 
September 2015. This was fair  but he said that the default would be removed from Mr 
Ks credit file after six years  which had now passed. So, by now, his credit file was clear. 
In discussion with Sainsburys, they said theyd agreed to write off the remaining balance of 
£1,732 in September 2017  and not pass Mr Ks debt to the debt collection agency. For 
that, they offered a compensation payment of £75  which our investigator felt was 
reasonable.
Mr K didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint
I reached a provisional decision in which I said:
 I can see that Mr K ran into difficulties with payments to his personal loan and the last 
instalment was paid to it in March 2015. Sainsburys then issued a Notice of Default in July 
2015 and registered the default on 16 September 2015. Ive looked the statements for the 
personal loan  and I cant say that Sainsburys made an error in defaulting the loan  
because the payments had stopped. This was in line with normal banking practice for 
dealing with situations where loan payments arent being made.
In 2016, Mr K paid in six payments of £1  he says he did this to prevent the default  but I 
have to say that unfortunately, that was too late - as the default had been registered prior to 
that happening. So, what that meant was that the default remained on Mr Ks credit file for 
six years from September 2015  so by now, the default shouldve been removed. But  I 
cant say that Sainsburys were wrong in registering the default in September 2015  and so 
between then and now  Mr K would not have been to get credit easily.
Looking at what happened in 2017  Mr K says he thought he had paid the last instalment of 
£1,732. But Sainsburys dont have any record of that  and asked Mr K to come forward with 
evidence that he had paid the money  I cant see he has done that. But based on what Ive 
seen  there isnt any evidence to show that Mr K paid the last instalment. And so  he still 
owed £1,732.
Mr K has said to us that on his credit file his debt should be shown as fully settled  as he 
has paid it off. But  Ive seen that he didnt pay off the whole debt because the balance was 
£13,845 in 2015  and he only paid £8,660 towards it  so Sainsburys were right in marking 
his credit file as partially settled  as this was accurate. Even if Mr K had paid the last 
instalment  the marker would have been the same  as he would have paid £10,345 
towards the debt.
Mr K says he wasnt aware the remaining debt had been passed to a debt collection agency. 
And its here that I think Sainsburys shouldve done better, Mr K had made five out of the six 
agreed payments and was therefore cooperating and trying to put things right  and so 
Sainsburys should have told Mr K what they were doing  when they passed the debt to the 
DCA. But based on the evidence Ive seen, they didnt. Mr K has said that he couldve paid 
the last instalment of £1,732 if hed known  but he didnt. But Mr K should note that even if 
he had paid off the remaining debt  this still wouldnt have changed the default which was 
correctly registered in September 2015.
Sainsburys have also told us that they decided to write off the outstanding balance of £1732 
 and not pursue Mr K for it. But instead, and contrary to this they passed the debt to the 
DCA  this was an error. In the meantime, Mr K had received letters from the DCA  which 
had clearly caused him stress and anxiety. He was surprised and upset to find out that the 
debt remained when the DCA contacted him recently. But equally, he hasnt made a case to 
us that, for example, he has been called and pressurised frequently by the DCA in the 
meantime. Sainsburys have told us that they will remove the outstanding balance and 
default from Mr Ks credit file now  which they were due to do as six years have passed.
Sainsburys had agreed to write off the debt and shouldnt have passed it to the DCA. And 
then  they didnt tell him they were passing the debt to the DCA. And so  this meant that 
Mr K was surprised and upset when the DCA contacted him. And so  I think that an 
increase in the amount of compensation here is appropriate  to £200.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Sainsburys agreed, but Mr K didnt. He said:
1. He wasnt advised of the default in September 2015. And in October 2017  he 
contacted Sainsburys and they didnt say there were any arrears then.
2. He wasnt aware the debt of £1,732 was being written off
3. He wasnt notified the debt was being passed to a DCA.
4. The default was put on the account even though it was agreed the debt would be settled at the lower amount. This wasnt fair  and it had been on his record for six 
years.
5. He had got hassle from the debt collector and has been denied credit because of the 
default against his name.
6. The stress and anxiety suffered warrants a higher amount of compensation.
I now need to consider Mr Ks points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1. I looked again at Sainsburys records and these show that Mr K was sent a Notice of 
Arrears on 11 May 2015, and then a Notice of Default on 10 July 2015. The letter 
notifying him that a default was to be registered was sent on 16 September 2015  with 
the balance at £13,896.53. Mr K says he didnt receive these letters  but in all fairness, 
Sainsburys cant be held responsible if all three letters werent delivered or received by 
Mr K. So, the evidence suggests that he was notified of the arrears, and the subsequent 
default. 
I can see that in October 2017 Mr K was sent a completion letter for the debt then 
outstanding. I havent seen the letter, but I can then see that the debt passed to the 
DCA in November 2017 was £1,732  so I must assume the completion letter showed 
that balance. So  I assume that Mr K was then made aware of the outstanding balance 
by way of the letter.
2. When a bank decides to write off a debt, thats their own internal decision  they 
essentially say they cant get the money back so they write it off in their books. So  I 
wouldnt expect them to let Mr K know of that.
3. Looking at whether Mr K shouldve been advised about the transfer of the debt to the 
DCA  I think he should have been. And as I said in my provisional decision, the 
evidence suggests he wasnt told. So, I consider Ive covered this point in the provisional 
decision.
4. On the default  this took place in September 2015  before Mr K agreed with 
Sainsburys to settle the debt for a lower amount, in April 2017. So  the default was 
always going to be registered then and remain on Mr Ks credit file from that time. The 
fact that, later, he came to an arrangement with Sainsburys was a separate issue and 
wouldnt affect the previous default. And I think that he had difficulty getting credit for six 
years was likely due to the 2015 default, not because of the settlement he later made 
with Sainsburys or the outstanding debt.
5. Regarding the debt collector  Ive considered this. On the one hand, Mr K has said that 
he wasnt aware of the debt  but also he now says he got hassle from the DCA as they 
called him a lot. He has now said to us -  the calls were unannounced. In all honesty, Im 
not persuaded that Mr K can argue this both ways. The provisional decision (and award 
of compensation) is for Mr Ks complaint that he wasnt aware of the debt  and Im not 
going to change that.
6. Mr K says he suffered stress for what happened. Ive considered this again. Mr Ks 
complaint is about the discovery of the outstanding debt of £1,732  as the default was earlier, in 2015. Ive looked at what he said to us in his original complaint  while there 
have been some unfortunate family problems, its not clear to me what the impact of the 
outstanding debt of £1,732 has been -  and Im not persuaded there is a strong case for 
an increased award for distress and inconvenience. 
And so, having considered Mr Ks further points, my final decision is the same as the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and Sainsbury's Bank Plc must:
Pay to Mr K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman