DRN-3032110
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that First Data Europe Limited unfairly 
withheld payments to it from one of its customers. 
M is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Mr M. 
What happened
M is a merchant. In February 2020, it processed a card not present (CNP) transaction for 
£7,000 for a shipment of goods to one of its overseas clients. First Data asked for more 
information about the transaction as they thought it was unusual activity for Ms account.
Mr M provided information to First Data to verify the transaction, but they were still 
uncomfortable with it so they explained that they would hold the funds for 180 days before 
releasing them. Mr M was unhappy with this, so he refunded the transaction and then 
attempted to process the payment using smaller transactions. First Data also stopped these 
smaller transactions from being processed.
M complained to First Data; however, they didnt uphold the complaint and explained that 
they were entitled to hold the funds for 180 days as per the conditions of their agreement 
with M.
Mr M was unhappy with First Datas response, so he brought Ms complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into matters and said she didnt think First Data had acted unfairly in 
withholding the payments. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at Ms complaint, so it has been 
passed to me to decide. 
Mr M acknowledges that the initial payment was withheld as a fraud prevention check. 
However, he says that after he provided evidence to verify the transaction, First Data gave 
several different reasons as to why they would not process it. Mr M says the issue wasnt 
handled in a timely manner and he feels that M was targeted when the smaller transactions 
from the same card were also blocked.
Mr M said the withheld payment caused liquidity issues for M and damaged Ms relationship 
with their client. Mr M feels that First Data were targeting M and acted vindictively in 
withholding the first payment and then stopping the smaller transactions.
Mr M would like First Data to:
Explain why they authorised similar payments from this client previously.
Refund all charges, fees and expenses incurred by both M and their client as a result 
of the payment being withheld. 
Apologise and compensate M for the stress and anxiety caused to Mr M and for the 
negative impact the situation had on Ms liquidity. 
Give an assurance to M that it can continue to trade unhindered with this client in the 
future; or, if these assurances cant be met, to release M from its contract with First 
Data.
As part of this complaint, Mr M also asked for an explanation of the negative value 
adjustments applied to Ms account. Mr M was satisfied with the explanation our investigator 
provided so I will not discuss this further in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator, and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
There is no doubt that First Data provided conflicting reasons about why they did not wish to 
process the CNP transaction for £7,000. However, it is clear that First Data were 
uncomfortable with processing this transaction.  
I can see that Mr M completed the Merchant Solutions Application Form on behalf of M, in 
March 2019. As part of the merchant declaration he agreed for M to be bound by the 
Merchant Conditions. 
In their final response, First Data have relied on Section 17 of their Merchant Conditions, 
specifically, Section 17.4 which says:
We may without notice withhold payment of sums relating to Card Transactions if we 
suspect that any Card Transaction between you and a Cardholder:
17.4.3 was not in the ordinary course of your Business..
On the Merchant Solutions Application Form, the nature of Ms busines is set out with an 
average transaction value of £80. I can see that the goods being sold to the overseas client 
had similarities to the nature of Ms business, but the transaction value was for far more than 
the expected £80 and it was for an activity that differed to Ms day to day business activities. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for First Data to query the transaction as unusual.
Mr M told us that he provided information to verify the cardholders identity and to explain the 
reason for the larger payment, and he thinks the funds should have been released once he 
provided this information. However, First Data made the decision to continue to hold the 
funds as they remained uncomfortable with the transaction as it was unusual activity for the 
business.
Having reviewed this information, I dont think it was unreasonable for First Data to continue 
to withhold the payment at this point until they were satisfied that no chargeback had been raised. I appreciate that this caused inconvenience for M, but First Data have acted in line 
with the Merchant Conditions and I dont think they treated M unfairly in doing so. 
Transactions can be charged back to the merchant for up to 180 days after they have 
debited the cardholders account. So, First Data can reasonably withhold payment for 180 
days, in line with the Merchant Conditions, until they are satisfied that it wont result in a 
chargeback.  
Ive seen nothing to suggest that this decision was vindictive or that First Data were targeting 
M. I think First Data acted fairly and reasonably in withholding the payment as they remained 
concerned about the transaction even after Mr M had provided Ms evidence. Given its value 
and that it was out of the ordinary for Ms business, I cant reasonably say that First Data did 
anything wrong in withholding the payment.
The transaction was then retried by Mr M by splitting it into smaller amounts. Mr M is 
unhappy that these transactions were also stopped, particularly as similar CNP transactions 
had been processed on the same card previously. I acknowledge that similar transactions on 
this card may have been accepted by First Data previously; however, I dont agree that this 
means that all future transactions on this card would have to be processed. 
Furthermore, given that First Data had already said they were not happy to process the 
transaction on this card, it is not surprising that their concerns remained the same regardless 
of whether it was processed with one large transaction or several smaller ones. So I dont 
think they did anything wrong in rejecting the smaller transactions. 
Given my findings above, I also dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold First Data 
responsible for any charges M and its client incurred in sending the funds using a different 
medium. So I wont be asking First Data to refund any charges, fees and expenses incurred 
by M or their client as a result of the payment being withheld. 
Given First Datas concerns about payments on this card, it would seem reasonable to 
expect further concerns about future payments on it. Fraud prevention checks exist to 
protect all parties so it would be unreasonable, and outside of my powers, to ask First Data
to provide confirmation that there will be no issues with a similar transaction from this card in 
the future.
As Ive found that First Data havent done anything wrong in withholding the payment, it 
would be unreasonable for me to ask them to release M from its contract. So, if Mr M wishes 
to terminate the contract, he will need to discuss this with First Data in line with the terms 
and conditions of their agreement. 
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision; however, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think First Data have acted unfairly or unreasonably in withholding this payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman