DRN-3276407
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly deprived it 
of access to its funds when restricting and closing its bank account. 
Ss director, Mr T, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
S banked with HSBC. It applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan in early May 2020. 
HSBC initially approved the application and it issued a loan agreement to Mr T, which he 
signed and returned. But after carrying out further checks, the bank reversed its decision and 
declined the application. It advised S of this by email on 15 June 2020.
Shortly thereafter, HSBC carried out a review of Ss bank account. The bank applied a 
restriction to the account on 23 July 2020, which remained in place while the review was 
conducted. This meant the company couldnt use the funds of around £25,000 held in the 
account.
Unable to access Ss account over the weeks and months that followed, Mr T raised a 
number of complaints with HSBC. The bank didnt uphold these. It said the account was 
restricted while under review so that it could comply with its statutory requirements. So Mr T 
referred the matter to us.
HSBC subsequently concluded its review and wrote to S on 14 December 2020 to advise 
that it was ending its relationship with the company and would be closing the account, which 
it did on 12 January 2021.
HSBC sent S a cheque for the closing account balance of around £27,000 on 14 January 
2021, but Mr T says he didnt receive this and the funds are still with HSBC. He says hes 
been unable to open a new account for S and wants HSBC to pay the funds into his 
personal account instead.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought that the complaint should be upheld 
in part. She didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong in declining Ss application for a 
Bounce Back Loan or in deciding to restrict, review and close the companys account. But 
she thought that the review had taken much longer than necessary, as the banks intention 
to close the account was apparent shortly after the restriction was applied  but it had taken 
until January 2021 to resolve the matter.
To put things right, our investigator thought HSBC should pay 8% interest on the balance 
from August 2020 until it was returned. She thought that HSBC should pay this directly to 
Mr T, because S didnt have an account and Mr T  as the companys director  could 
decide how to use its funds. She also recommended that HSBC pay S compensation of 
£350 for the inconvenience it had been caused.
Mr T accepted our investigators view but HSBC didnt. It acknowledged that Ss account had 
been restricted for a delayed period, but didnt think it was fair to compensate the company 
for this in the circumstances. It was unwilling to pay the funds to Mr T as it said that its policy 
required that the funds be paid only to S. And given this, it couldnt see that S had lost out  
as even if it had released the funds to S any earlier, the company wouldnt have been able to 
cash the cheque anyway. So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Ss account allowed HSBC to restrict the account usage  in 
making and receiving payments  in the way it did here. HSBC has explained that it did so in 
order to comply with its statutory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that this was the case. And while I note Mr T was unhappy at the lack of notification or 
timescale he received about the matter, HSBC wasnt required to give S notice of its actions 
or provide a timeframe within which they would be complete. 
The terms and conditions also allowed HSBC to close Ss account immediately in certain 
circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to do so here and HSBC 
provided the appropriate notification of this to S once the decision was made.
Although HSBC was entitled to take the actions it did, Id also expect it to do so within a 
reasonable timeframe. It applied a restriction to Ss account on 23 July 2020 and deprived 
the company of access to its funds until it released them on 12 January 2021. Based on the 
information Ive been provided with, I dont think this was reasonable. 
HSBC hasnt demonstrated that it was actively progressing matters during this period. It 
doesnt seem that it based its decision to close the account on anything other than the 
information that it obtained in June 2020, when reviewing Ss Bounce Back Loan application. 
It seems, in fact, that HSBC opened Ss account in error in the first place. Arguably then, the 
whole situation couldve been avoided but for HSBCs mistake in allowing S to open and 
operate this account in the first place. So like our investigator, I think the bank ought 
reasonably to have reached its decision to close Ss account  and release its funds  within 
a few days of applying the restriction. 
Similarly, HSBC hasnt demonstrated that there was any justification in continuing to restrict 
Ss access to the funds even after it had decided to close the companys account. The funds 
belong to S. While there are circumstances in which it may be appropriate to limit a 
customers access to their funds, Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was reasonable to 
do so here. S ought reasonably, then, to have been able to transfer or withdraw the funds to 
use as it wished once HSBC had completed its review. 
Instead, HSBC has insisted that the funds be paid by cheque to S even when the company 
has explained that it has no account into which this could be paid. I dont think that is 
reasonable in the circumstances here. As above, Ive not seen that HSBC had sufficient 
cause to withhold the funds from S  so Mr T, as the companys director and account 
signatory, ought to have been able to disperse them as he wished.
I recognise that HSBC was following its policy in deciding how to release the account 
balance to S. Its not for me to decide whether the policy itself was fair or correct, or require 
the bank to change this. As above, I understand that there will be circumstances where it is appropriate to direct payment only to a particular entity or accountholder. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think it was fair to do so in the individual circumstances of this case. 
So to put things right, I think HSBC should release the account balance in line with Ss 
instruction (unless there are any other grounds on which it may reasonably refuse to do so, 
in accordance with the account terms and conditions).
I also think it would be fair for HSBC to compensate S for the inconvenience it was caused 
by the delay in completing the review and releasing the account balance. Mr T had to chase 
things up on a number of occasions, including a number of calls, a visit to a branch, raising 
the complaint and ultimately referral to us. The company was left without the use of its funds 
for significantly longer than necessary and had to make alternative arrangements during this 
period. For this, I also think it would be fair for HSBC to pay S compensation of £350 and 
add 8% interest to the account balance from 1 August 2020 to the date of this decision. It will 
then be up to Mr T to confirm to HSBC his instruction for the release of the funds.
I understand that Mr T has accepted HSBCs decision to decline Ss Bounce Back Loan 
application. So I wont comment on that in any detail here, other than to confirm that I think 
the banks decision was made in line with the rules of the Loan Scheme and was reasonable 
on the basis of the information it considered when conducting its assessment. Its regrettable 
that the application was initially approved, but HSBC was entitled to keep things under 
review and I dont think this prejudiced Ss position or caused the company any losses. So 
Im not requiring HSBC to do anything in respect of this aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Calculate 8% simple interest per year on the account balance from 1 August 2020 to 
the date of this decision and add this to the outstanding balance due to S;
Pay S compensation of £350, which again will need to be added to the amount owed 
to S; and
Act on Ss instruction to release the account balance including the above additions, 
subject to the terms and conditions that applied to Ss account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman