DRN-2107421
The complaint
Miss K says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading at the time as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
In July 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint.
A summary of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision:
This complaint is about one loan MoneyBoat provided to Miss K on 24 October 2018. Miss Ks 
borrowing history is set out in the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 24/10/2018 23/09/2019 Instalment £800 £246.34
I understand a repayment schedule was agreed in January 2019 when Miss K fell into difficulty in 
meeting her repayments, but the loan is now closed.
In her complaint to this service, Miss K told us that she was riddled with debt when this loan was 
given. She said that her financial situation should have been picked up as part of MoneyBoats 
checks.
In its final response to Miss K, MoneyBoat told her it would not uphold her complaint. It said for each 
application it performed credit checks and it also assessed the affordability of the loan by requesting 
Miss Ks income and expenditure and her declared salary was verified via pay slips. It told Miss K it 
was reasonable to assume that the lending was affordable to her based on its proportionate checks.
Our adjudicator didn't think this was a matter which should be upheld. She said that she didn't think it 
would have been proportionate to ask for the amount of information it needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable, and there wasn't anything in the information it saw that meant MoneyBoat should have 
verified the information it received from Miss K. Finally, she said that she didn't think the number of 
loans taken out, the loan history and length of time the loan was given would have shown MoneyBoat 
that Miss K might have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Miss K disagreed with this view. She said she didn't feel the reasons shed given had been taken into 
account. She said she was disputing the checks made on the loan. If MoneyBoat had conducted 
robust checks it would have seen the dramatic financial situation she was in at the time. Miss K says 
even though it was only one loan, the value of it was particularly high given the other loans she had at 
the time. She asked that her matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish whether 
Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ks complaint. Im intending to uphold this case and I will explain why.
As I explained above, this loan was the first loan Miss K had taken with Money boat. So MoneyBoats 
checks needed to be proportionate. Ive looked to see what checks MoneyBoat carried out before it 
gave Miss K her loan.
First of all, Miss K declared her income as £2,750 and her outgoings as £668.25 plus a sum of £600 
for credit per month. So, on the face of it, it looked as if she might be able to afford to take out this 
loan based on what she had declared.
MoneyBoat has provided a credit check it carried out before lending to Miss K. Ive looked carefully 
through it to see what it saw. I can see there were indebtedness indicators which showed that the 
total of all balances of loans, instalment credit and revolving and budget credit was £19,015. In my 
view the report highlighted Miss K was already highly indebted. However, I dont think this was an 
automatic red flag not to lend. But I note the report also showed that Miss K was up to 96% of her limit 
for revolving and budget credit and it also showed that she had opened seven new accounts within the last six months, with 16 active accounts on her file. Taking the whole picture of her indebtedness 
and coupled with the fact there were 16 accounts outstanding, with 7 (almost half) of her accounts 
opened in the last six months I think MoneyBoat should have carried out further checks to verify what 
Miss K was saying.
MoneyBoat could have done this in several ways- it could have asked for evidence of her income from 
her pay slips - which I believe it did. So it would have had a good idea of her true income. It could 
have also obtained information about her outgoings via copies of bills. In this case Miss K has sent 
copies of her bank statements for the period. I dont think it is unreasonable to rely on these to show 
Miss Ks financial position at the time of her borrowing from MoneyBoat.
From the statements I can see that Miss K had taken out a number of loans within the two months 
before taking her loan with MoneyBoat. In particularly I note that Miss K took out at least eight loans in 
the month prior to her requesting the loan from MoneyBoat, and she also had made various credit 
card repayments. Miss K looks like she also took out a further seven loans in October before this loan. 
I think if MoneyBoat had done further checks it would have realised Miss K was simply servicing her 
debt and by the time she requested money from MoneyBoat, she was likely having problems 
managing her money.
So, Im intending to uphold Miss Ks complaint about her loan and ask MoneyBoat to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Following my provisional decision, I asked both parties to come back to me with any further 
information they wished me to consider.
Miss K said she was happy with my decision and had nothing further to add. MoneyBoat 
didnt respond to my provisional decision.
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision and I 
uphold Miss Ks complaint about her loan.
Putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
 refund all interest and charges Miss K paid on loan 1;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any negative information about loan 1 from Miss Ks credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Miss Ks complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman