DRN-3076301
The complaint
Mr G complains that Loans 2 Go Limited failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when offering him a loan. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr G applied for a £750.00 loan with Loans 2 Go. The loan was to be 
repaid over a period of 18 months with a monthly repayment of £169.92. The Annual 
Percentage Rate of charge (APR) was 990.1%.
In February 2020 with the assistance of a professional representative, Mr G complained to 
Loans 2 Go about the lending decision. He said that it had failed to properly assess his 
affordability, not completing reasonable and proportionate checks. He said had these been 
completed, it would have been clear the loan was unaffordable and the lending decision was 
irresponsible. He asked that Loans 2 Go refund the interest and charges applied to the loan 
account and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Loans 2 Go explained why it didnt think it had done anything wrong when it provided Mr G 
with the loan and he brought his complaint to this service to consider.
Our investigator looked at Mr Gs complaint and said that she felt Loans 2 Go had done 
something wrong. She believed the information on Mr Gs credit file and recent loan 
applications, together with the information about his declared disposable income compared 
to the loan amount requested, indicated further checks would have been reasonable. She 
couldnt say what these checks would have been but felt reviewing Mr Gs bank statements  
for the three months prior to the application would have been a sensible starting point. From 
this she said it was clear Mr G had no set monthly income and that he was relying on friends 
and family to get by at times. So in effect, he had no disposable income and further checks 
would have shown the loan was unaffordable. She asked Loans 2 Go to refund the interest 
and charges applied to the account and remove any negative information on his credit file as 
a result of these charges to put things right.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It didnt think it would have been reasonable to ask for Mr Gs bank 
statements and review these. It had reviewed Mr Gs credit file when the loan was taken out 
and this didnt indicate any areas of concern so it felt it had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. 
Because Loans 2 Go disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator and will
explain why.
This services approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending is detailed on our website and
Ive followed this approach when considering Mr Gs complaint.
The FCAs relevant regulatory framework for lending is set out in the Consumer Sourcebook 
(CONC). This places an obligation on Loans 2 Go to lend responsibly and complete a
credit worthiness assessment, giving consideration to whether the lending is likely to 
adversely impact the consumer and their situation.
Loans 2 Go has explained in some detail the checks it carried out to assess Mr Gs
credit worthiness and why it feels these checks were reasonable and proportionate in
relation to the size and duration of the loan. It doesnt think from these there was a need to 
review his bank statements too.
There are no set checks that need to be completed, although CONC does give examples of 
the common things it expects to be considered. The checks should take account of the 
consumers individual circumstances and so it follows that what might be deemed reasonable 
and proportionate for one person might not be for another. Ive considered first of all whether 
I think the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go were reasonable and proportionate to 
determine whether it was likely Mr G was able to afford his loan repayments in a sustainable 
way.
Loans 2 Go has said the information returned on Mr Gs credit file didnt give any cause for 
concern and this, together with its affordability assessment led it to believe the loan was 
affordable and no further checks were needed. I think the checks and information gathered 
when the loan was taken out indicate that further checks were required. 
Six months before the loan with Loans 2 Go was taken out, Mr G took out two loans with 
other providers with a total balance of nearly £20,000. Although the repayment history didnt 
indicate any issues with this borrowing when the application with Loans 2 Go was made it 
did show other accounts had been defaulted in recent years and Mr G had struggled to meet 
his agreed payments on some of his accounts. Mr G also said he had a disposable income 
of over £1500.00 when the application was made. Loans 2 Go said its checks identified the 
income and disposable income was lower than this but that it still felt the loan was affordable 
and the checks proportionate. But I think it still indicated that Mr G might not be able to afford 
the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And I think further checks should have been 
carried out to determine why Mr G needed the additional funds and whether the loan was 
affordable.
I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to ask to see Mr Gs bank 
statements. The loan was for a relatively small amount but with the interest charged Mr G 
would have been repaying considerably more and its difficult to understand why this was 
needed if he had the level of income he said he did. 
The Bank statements show that Mr G was often borrowing money from friends and had no 
stable monthly income. So although he said he had a regular income which resulted in his 
disposable income, this wasnt the case. And because of this, I think it would have been 
evident that it was unlikely Mr G was able to repay the loan in a sustainable way had further 
checks, like reviewing his bank statements been carried out. 
Had Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have shown Mr G 
was unlikely to be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. Had this happened Mr G 
wouldnt have been lent the money. But Mr G has had the benefit of the money borrowed 
and its right that he repays this now. Ive explained below what I think Loans 2 Go needs to 
do to now put things right.Putting things right
To put things right, Loans 2 Go Limited should do the following:
1. Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Gs loan account.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, it should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated in step 1.
3. If after step 2 a capital balance remains, Loans 2 Go should ensure Mr G isnt subject 
to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if after step 2 a positive balance 
remains, this should be paid to Mr G with 8% simple interest* added.
4. Loans 2 Go should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit 
file as a result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires business to take off tax from interest. If this is the
case, Loans 2 Go must provide Mr G with a statement of any tax paid upon request.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman