DRN-3781910
The complaint
Mr R complains that Buckingham Insurance Consultants Ltd (Buckingham) mis-sold him a 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. He says the policy sold to him was of no use.
What happened
Mr R purchased a commercial vehicle insurance policy from Buckingham but claims this was 
mis-sold. He says Buckingham didnt make it clear enough what was covered and what 
wasnt. He said he made it clear he had more than one occupation and needed cover for 
both (motor trade and construction). He says when he asked to cancel the policy, he was 
told hed get a refund, but then was later told he wouldnt.
Buckingham said it made it clear what the policy covered and what it didnt. It says it did tell 
Mr R he would get a refund when he asked about cancelling the policy. But it says this 
information was an error made by the underwriter of the policy. And it said Mr R didnt give 
instruction to cancel at that point anyway.
Mr R didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt think it 
should be upheld. He thought Buckingham made it clear what was covered and what wasnt. 
And he thought Buckingham wasnt responsible for the error in letting Mr R know hed get a 
refund if he cancelled the policy.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Buckingham needed to make clear to Mr R what was covered and what wasnt. Im 
satisfied it did this both on the call and in the documentation it sent. I agree Mr R told 
it about his two occupations. But that doesnt mean Buckingham needed to provide 
cover for both of them. It made clear what the policy provided cover for (Mr Rs motor 
trade) and what it didnt (travel between different construction sites in relation to Mr 
Rs construction role). So, I cant agree that Buckingham wasnt forthcoming with 
what the policy offered. It was ultimately Mr Rs decision to take out the policy based 
on what Buckingham told him. I dont find Buckingham told him anything unclear or 
misleading.
When Mr R asked about cancelling the policy, he was first told hed get a refund. 
When he enquired at a later date, he was told he wouldnt get a refund. I can 
understand how this is frustrating. But this doesnt mean hes due a refund.
oWhen Mr R was first told hed get a refund this was an error. He should have 
been told at this point no refund was due. But Buckingham was simply 
passing on information from the underwriter at this point. Ultimately it was the 
underwriters decision to not give a refund in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy not Buckinghams.
oMr R didnt give instruction to cancel at this point. Indeed, after this enquiry 
Mr R made another enquiry about increasing the level of cover on the policy. 
But even if Mr R did give instruction to cancel at this first enquiry, he wasnt 
due a refund. He was just told in error that he would.
oWhen he did give instruction to cancel at a later date, he was told the correct 
information  that no refund was due under the terms of the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied Buckingham made it clear what the policy covers and what it 
doesnt. It gave Mr R incorrect information on one occasion, but I dont find it 
responsible for that wrong information, and ultimately, Im not satisfied Mr R has 
been prejudiced in any way by that wrong information. Mr R has remained on cover 
for his motor trade, so I cant fairly say the policy has been of no use to him or that it 
was mis-sold to him.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman