DRN-3949371
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with First Response Finance Ltd (First Response). 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from First 
Response. The car was about 11 years old and had travelled around 59,000 miles when it 
was supplied to Mr P. The cash price of the car was £5,990 Mr P paid a deposit of £250 
which meant the total amount financed on the agreement was £5,740 payable over 48 
monthly repayments of £220.41.
In June 2022 Mr P complained to First Response about some issues he was experiencing 
with his car. Mr P said there were warning lights on the dashboard, an oil leak and a clicking 
noise when he drove the car.
First Response said theyd been notified about the issues seven months after Mr P was 
supplied the car. First Response said they agreed to cover the cost of an inspection of the 
car from a local garage, which was carried out on 1 July 2022.
The inspection report noted some issues including those raised by Mr P. First Response 
said the garage werent able to confirm if the issues were present or developing when the 
car was supplied to Mr P.
In July 2022 First Response issued their final response to Mr Ps complaint which they didnt 
uphold. First Response said they couldnt determine if the issues were present when the car 
was supplied to Mr P. I note however from the system notes, that in addition to covering the 
cost of the inspection, First Response offered Mr P support with up to 50% of the repair 
costs dependent on his repayments being up to date.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr P brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that the issues were likely caused by in 
service wear and tear.
Mr P responded to say that the issues were pre-existing, and that he was told by a mechanic 
that the drive shaft wasnt repaired properly. However, as the investigators view remained 
unchanged, Mr P asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. First Response is also the supplier of the goods 
under this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that First Response supplied Mr P with a used car that had travelled 
59,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided Im persuaded there were faults with the car. This is apparent 
from the inspection report provided by the local garage which noted issues which included 
fault codes, an oil leak, a clicking noise from the front of the car and warning lights. Having 
considered the car had some faults, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
First Response said that Mr P raised the issues with them in June 2022 around seven 
months after being supplied the car. This is supported by First Response system notes 
which shows Mr P called them on 21 June 2022 to report an oil leak and clicking noise.
The inspection report from the local garage, detailed the same issues that Mr P raised with 
First response, however it advised that further investigation would be needed to determine 
the cause of the issues.
First Response recorded on their system notes that during a phone call with the garage, the 
mileage covered since supply was around 6,000 miles. And although Ive seen no evidence 
of the mileage, I think the distance is plausible and Ive been given no reason to doubt what 
First response has recorded. 
First Response system notes also say that the garage believed that all the issues could have 
been age related, and they werent certain that the clicking noise was related to an advisory 
on a previous MOT. I recognise these issues have occurred within the first year of supply, 
however as the car already had around 59,000 miles when it was supplied and was priced 
less than £6,000, I dont think the issues developing after 6,000 miles of further travel is 
unreasonable in the circumstances.I acknowledge Mr P believes the previous MOT failure was related to the current issues and 
said he was told by the garage that it looked like a failed repair. Ive not seen that this was 
recorded on their report or on a separate statement or diagnostic from them, confirming this 
was the case. Having reviewed the previous MOTs for the car, although the last one carried 
out on 2 December 2021, initially failed due to a major defect with the front drive shaft, it also 
shows that it passed on the same day with no advisories. 
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied the issue with the drive shaft was repaired in 
order for the MOT to pass. In addition, there were no advisories related to an oil leak. In 
consideration that an MOT pass in 2020 came with the advisory of an oil leak, and having 
reviewed government information on whats checked during an MOT, Im satisfied that fluid 
leaks are checked as part of the process and so would likely have been noted had it been 
present on the latest MOT carried out in December 2021.
Based on the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied, I dont think its unreasonable 
that some issues presented themselves after a certain period of fair usage. The garage also 
advised that some of the issues were built up over time, I dont think this is unreasonable 
taking into account the age and mileage of the car. I think had the issues been at an 
unreasonable level when the car was supplied to Mr P, its unlikely Mr P would have got as 
much usage from it.
I acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling about the quality of the car that was supplied to 
him. I also recognise the impact this situation has had on his personal circumstances. 
However, having considered all the information provided, for the reasons given, Im not 
persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require First Response to take any action in respect of this complaint. I leave it to Mr P to 
decide if on reflection he would like to accept the offer made by First Response in relation to 
support with the repair costs.  
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about First Response Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman