DRN-4259639
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with her request to 
withdraw cash from her account.
What happened
Miss P wanted to withdraw a large amount of cash from her account. She called Halifax to 
ask how she could withdraw over £5,000 and was told she could do this by going to a 
branch. She attended a branch and asked to withdraw significantly over £5,000. The branch 
told her that an amount like this would need to have been ordered in, but said it had a 
portion of the money available and Miss P could go to another branch for the rest.
Halifax Branch visit
Before agreeing to the request though, Halifax asked Miss P why she wanted to withdraw 
the cash. Miss P spent some time in the branch discussing this and eventually Halifax 
refused to give her access to the money as she wanted. Halifax also held onto her debit card 
for a period of time. Miss P then made a visit to another branch where a manager spoke to 
her about her request. That branch allowed her to withdraw the money as she wanted, 
although Miss P was unhappy that she wasnt allowed to count the cash or given the option 
of a private room to do this.
Miss P complained to Halifax  and it acknowledged that its service in the initial phone call 
could have been better. It said that it should have told Miss P that she needed to order the 
amount she wanted to withdraw as cash and paid her £30 for this. But it didnt think it had 
acted wrongly in any other way.
Complaint made to Halifax
Miss P was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators reviewed what had happened. They said that Halifax was entitled to have 
asked more questions of Miss P before giving her the cash as she wanted. Our investigator 
felt that this was, ultimately, in Miss Ps best interests. While the first branch didnt give her 
the cash and the second did  they felt that this was in line with Halifaxs processes, where 
different branches are entitled to decide independently on what checks they do in situations 
like this. While Halifax may not have offered Miss P a private room, they felt this was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss P didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that a bank should generally follow a customers instructions 
unless theres good reason not to do so. Miss P wanted to withdraw a significant amount of 
cash at once. There are risks to giving a customer this amount of money in cash and so I 
think its fair and reasonable that Halifax wanted to ask some further questions about why 
Miss P wanted to withdraw this amount of money as cash. I think its a matter of good 
practice that a bank would take steps to make sure that a customer isnt being tricked or 
coerced into making a cash withdrawal.
So I think its fair that Halifax didnt immediately give Miss P access to the cash in the way 
she wanted. I realise that she thinks that Halifax has no right to stop her getting access to 
her money  but I have to consider things from both sides. Its not that Halifax was saying 
that Miss P was never entitled to the money it holds in her name  its just that it wanted to 
perform more checks before it gave her such a large amount in a particular way. Such 
checks are, I think, in Miss Ps best interests  as they are intended to be a safeguard 
against customers falling victim to scams and fraud. I realise Miss P will see things very 
differently though.
First Halifax branch
The first branch didnt feel it would be appropriate to give Miss P the amount she wanted in 
cash based on what she told it. I think thats a decision it was entitled to make based on 
what Ive seen here. Halifax had some concerns based on what she told it and acted on 
those concerns. 
I realise that Miss P is unhappy that the conversation around her request took place in the 
main area of the branch, rather than in a private room. Its for Halifax to decide whether 
thats an appropriate step to take if a customer hasnt specifically requested this. Here, it 
looks like Halifax decided to provide its service and respond to Miss Ps request in the main 
area of the branch  which is something it was entitled to do. I dont think providing a private 
room here would have affected the outcome of her visit, which is that the branch didnt give 
Miss P the cash in the way she wanted.
It also looks like the branch held onto her debit card for a period of time, before giving it back 
to her before she left. Thats a step that I imagine Halifax took while it was making more 
enquiries, which I think is fair. It gave the card back before Miss P left the branch in any 
event.
Second Halifax branch
When Miss P went to the second Halifax branch, it too asked questions before allowing 
Miss P access to the cash as she wanted. I think that shows a certain consistency in 
Halifaxs approach to her request. This time though, the branch was satisfied by what Miss P 
said about her reasons for withdrawing the cash. That too is a decision it was entitled to 
make and having looked at the evidence here, I think its a decision it made fairly  and it 
was ultimately was what Miss P wanted.Counting the cash
I realise that Miss P would have liked Halifax to have spoken to her and counted the cash in 
a private room. But Halifax has explained that its not its process to offer that in 
circumstances like this. Having considered this and the overall circumstances, its not clear 
that Halifaxs decision to deal with the transaction in this way had any negative impact on the 
situation here. Ultimately, Miss P was allowed to withdraw money in the way she wanted. 
She also said that shes unhappy that she wasnt allowed to count the cash herself before 
leaving. I can see why that would be, but there is no suggestion that Miss P was given 
anything other than the amount of cash she wanted here.
It would have been helpful if Halifax gave Miss P the correct advice when she first called it. 
For that its paid £30, which I think is fair. But I havent found that Halifax has acted unfairly 
in any other aspect of how its dealt with this situation. That means I wont be telling it to do 
any more here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman