DRN-3028697
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt make a chargeback for items she bought, 
which turned out to be faulty.
What happened
Mrs S said she made a purchase from an online retailer, but the items were faulty. But she 
said that she had only been offered a refund of part of the cost. Mrs S said people had come 
to try to collect the items, but she wasnt able to hand them over  she said they are too 
heavy to lift, and she was shielding at the time. Mrs S also said that the seller had only come 
once, although it claimed to have tried to collect on a number of occasions. 
Mrs S said shed asked Santander to make a chargeback so she could get her money back, 
but it hadnt. She wanted us to look into what Santander had done.
Santander said Mrs S had asked it to make a chargeback for £989.99. It told us it had 
repeatedly asked Mrs S for additional information. It wanted to know when she got the items, 
when shed sent them back, what was wrong with them, and how shed tried to resolve this 
with the seller, including whether the seller had confirmed she was due a refund. 
Mrs S sent Santander a note suggesting the seller had agreed to make a partial refund. She 
said that was the only information shed been given by the online retailer. And she did 
describe the problem, but only very briefly. 
Santander has shown us the requests for extra information it sent to Mrs S. And it said it just 
didnt have enough information to justify its chargeback request.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. she said that when Santander 
makes a chargeback, its working within a framework set out by the card scheme operator, 
whose symbol is on Mrs Ss card. And that framework includes a deadline for Mrs S sending 
Santander the information to explain why a chargeback should be made. Although 
Santander had asked repeatedly for this information, Mrs S had only sent an email saying 
she was getting a partial refund. Our investigator said that didnt give Santander enough 
information to process Mrs Ss chargeback. So our investigator didnt think that Santander 
did anything wrong, when it failed to do so.
Mrs S wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Santander doesnt set the rules for how chargebacks work, and it cant change those rules. 
The rules are set by the card scheme operator, whose symbol is on Mrs Ss card. 
But Santander does know what it needs to provide, for a chargeback request to be 
successful. Its got to be able to see what Mrs S thought she was buying, as well as what 
she ended up with. And it does need to know about how Mrs S had tried to resolve this 
dispute with the seller. Those are all things that Santander needs to be able to set out, in 
order to make a chargeback claim for Mrs S.
I know that Mrs S did send some information, but I agree with our investigator that 
Santander just didnt have enough for it to be able to ask the sellers bank to give back the 
money Mrs S had paid for her purchases. And eventually it just ran out of time to help Mrs S, 
without getting that information. 
I know that Mrs S will be very disappointed, but I dont think that Santander did anything 
wrong here. So I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman