DRN-3513186
The complaint
Mr D complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) has turned down his 
claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr D was mowing his lawn, his lawnmower hit some stones and he heard a cracking 
noise. Mr Ds wife then noticed their oil tank was leaking. 
Mr D claimed on his home insurance policy, saying the stones hit the tank, causing it to 
crack and oil to leak. He wants AA to pay for having the oil pumped out of his damaged tank 
and for the new tank hes had fitted. AA has turned down Mr Ds claim. It says the damage to 
Mr Ds oil tank was more likely caused by wear and tear and not accidental damage, and so 
isnt covered under his insurance policy.
When Mr D complained to AA about this, it didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought it to 
us. The investigator who looked at it initially upheld it. But AA then supplied further evidence 
which changed our investigators view. Our investigator then said the damage to the tank 
didnt appear to be from an impact, but rather fatigue or wear and tear of the tank itself. And 
because Mr Ds policy didnt cover him for wear and tear, he didnt think AA had treated Mr D 
unfairly by turning down his claim.
Mr D disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing to say is that its for Mr D to show the damage to his oil tank was caused by an 
event for which hes insured. Mr Ds policy includes cover for accidental damage. This is 
unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden and external means. Mr D says 
hes suffered accidental damage because his oil tank was cracked by stones hitting it when 
he mowed his lawn.
Mr Ds policy also, though, has a general exception which says he has no cover for loss or 
damage arising from gradually operating causes, including wear and tear. AA says where a 
crack occurs along a seam it is most likely caused by stress to the area and weakening of 
the area due to general wear and tear so on the balance of probabilities this is the most 
likely cause of the damage. Its on this basis AA has turned down Mr Ds claim.
Ive looked at the evidence AA has given us to support its decision. This includes a photo 
showing a crack along one of the seams of the tank. AA got a surveyor to do a desktop 
assessment of Mr Ds claim, including the photo. The surveyor said the crack was most likely 
cause by wear and tear/stress. AA says it has no evidence of accidental damage.
On balance, I dont think Mr D has done enough to show its more likely than not his oil tank 
suffered accidental damage. He says his lawnmower hit some stones and he heard a 
cracking noise but it was only when his wife  whom Mr D says was gardening nearby  saw 
oil leaking that they noticed the crack to the tank. Mr D hasnt given us any expert evidence 
to support his view that the crack was caused by stones hitting the tank. As Ive already 
mentioned AA did get an experts view on this. Looking at the photo of the crack along the 
seam of the tank, I think AAs view that it was more likely a stress fracture caused by wear 
and tear is persuasive.
So, having looked at all the evidence and arguments Ive got, I think AA has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with Mr Ds policy terms and conditions, in turning down Mr Ds claim 
in reliance on its experts report.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman