DRN-3043151
complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a store 
card.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. She applied for
the store card and PPI policy in-store.
At the time, Mrs B was employed as an assistant manager in a retail store. She has told us
she was entitled to employee benefits of sick pay and redundancy pay. Its not clear from
what shes said how long her sick pay wouldve lasted or how much redundancy pay she
was entitled to. But given the nature of her employment and her tenure I think its likely she
wouldve been entitled to no more than six months full sick pay. Miss B has said she had
around £1,000 in savings she couldve used to make the repayments on her store card
should she be unable to work. 
Finally Mrs B has said she had a medical condition many years prior to the sale. But this 
appears to have been one-off type injury, which happened around 13 years prior to
the sale and before she was working. So on the basis that Miss B hasnt said anything to
make me think she suffered any ongoing problems as a result of her injury, I consider to all
intents and purposes she was in good health at the time of the sale. I dont think her injury
can reasonably be described as an existing medical condition.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mrs Bs store card balance in the event
of Mrs B being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment.
The policy also provided Purchase Protection. Mrs B hasnt complained about this element
of the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision.
According to AXAs records Mrs B paid a total of just £3.13 for PPI during the policys
lifetime.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
AXA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Bs store card application from the time. Looking at this I
can see Mrs B ticked a box to take out PPI in a separate section of the form titled: Payment
and Purchase Protection. This section didnt say or imply Mrs B had to have PPI  so if she
didnt want the cover she couldve left this section of the application blank.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs B knew the policy was
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs B hasnt said either way. Looking at
what happened when AXA sold Mrs B the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice 
Ive not seen anything to show or suggest that AXA considered Mrs Bs circumstances and
recommended she take out the cover.
This means AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs B. Instead, it had to
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs B to make an informed
choice about whether to take out the policy.
the information
This sale took place in a store. I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it 
out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for 
Mrs B  for example she was eligible for its benefits and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. 
In my view as I concluded earlier, Mrs B didnt have anything that could reasonably be 
described as an existing medical condition and I dont think Mrs B wouldve considered it as such either. There was also nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for her to claim. 
I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was given. And it also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs 
B would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would 
have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in her particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or
reject my decision before 20 October 2021. Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman