DRN-3766593
The complaint
Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, returned the money a third-party
bank (bank A) had sent on his behalf as part of a balance transfer. He says it gave no
reason and has done nothing to help since.
What happened
On 19 December 2021 bank A processed a balance transfer of £457 for Mr L. Barclays
returned the funds on 24 December 2021 for unknown reasons. Mr L says Barclays then
offered him no useful help; he was stuck in between the two banks with no way of
understanding what had happened. Meanwhile he was incurring interest on the balance that
had failed to transfer.
Mr L says this has caused him significant stress and inconvenience, impacting his mental
health. He wants an apology from Barclays and compensation of £300, as well as a refund
of the direct debit payment made after his transfer request.
Our investigator initially found bank A to be at fault. But after Mr L brought a separate
complaint about bank A and it supplied evidence showing how it had processed the
payment, he revised his view and upheld Mr Ls complaint about Barclays. He said the
evidence in the round showed Mr L had provided, and bank A had used, the correct
reference number. But for some reason when Barclays returned the payment three digits
were missing from the reference number and it seems most likely this was why the payment
had not successfully reached Mr Ls Barclaycard account. So he said Barclays should
reimburse Mr L for the interest he was charged on his bank A credit card (subject to Mr L
providing evidence of this) as he would not have to pay this had the balance transfer
payment been accepted. And to recognise the inconvenience and stress Mr L had
experienced Barclays must pay him £100 compensation.
Mr L replied saying he wants a minimum of £300 compensation: he feels bullied by Barclays,
he has a condition that exacerbates anxiety and his well-being has not been considered.
Barclays disagreed with the revised assessment. It said as the recipient it is unable to
amend the payment reference, so it cannot agree it was at fault. The payment was
automatically returned to bank A as the correct format was not used. It cannot explain why
three digits were missing but as the reference was not complete this is why the payment
failed. The evidence it has provided  the incoming payments report - should be given equal,
if not more, weight as any evidence from bank A as this report has no manual involvement.
And this shows the three digits were missing from the reference number on arrival.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties a chance to make any additional comments. An extract follows and forms part of 
this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
This complaint is against Barclays and so I must carefully interrogate the evidence submitted
to decide whether or not it shows the bank made a mistake. I dont think that it does. It has
shared with this service its incoming payments report that Mr Ls transaction was listed on,
and told us this is wholly automated with no manual intervention. To me this means none of
the options the investigator previously suggested as the cause of the missing digits
(misreading, a copy and pasting error or a column that wasnt viewed in full) are likely or
plausible.
The report shows that when Barclays received the payment it had an invalid card number
reference as the first three digits were missing. In such circumstances  where the bank
does not have the information it needs to allocate the payment correctly - I find the process it
has in place to automatically return the funds to the sender to be reasonable. I cannot
explain to Mr L why the digits were missing  but Barclays has shown that this is the
information it received. I know this will be very frustrating for Mr L, but there are unfortunately
a very small number of cases we look at where we just wont know why something
happened.
So it follows I cannot fairly find Barclays made a mistake based on the available evidence.
And I therefore wont be instructing it to take any compensatory action.
I appreciate this will not be the outcome Mr L was hoping for, and I am sorry the incident has
caused him significant stress, but I find it to be a fair and reasonable conclusion based on
the available evidence.
Barclays responded saying it had no further comments to add and agreed with these 
findings.
Mr L responded saying this was not a fair conclusion. He feels neither party involved is being 
held accountable, rather he is being blamed. He wants to know how three digits can be 
missing and it be no-ones fault. If Barclays is not at fault, the other bank must be and must 
be held accountable. He says this service cannot be for the people, and be impartial, if it 
does not hold one of the banks responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about Mr Ls response to my provisional decision. Mr L described 
this service as for the people, but we dont act on behalf of either consumers or banks. We 
are independent and impartial. 
I accept this situation must be frustrating for Mr L. But I have to act within the remit of this 
final decision. It is a complaint against Barclays and what I have to decide is whether the 
available evidence shows Barclays made a mistake that it needs to put right. And I think, on 
balance, the evidence does not show that Barclays made an error in how it handled Mr Ls 
incoming payment. I say this as the incoming payments report, which Barclays has told us is 
automated and not manipulated manually in any way, shows it arrived with three digits 
missing. It is for this reason I cannot fairly hold Barclays accountable for the payment being 
returned. I would like to clarify though that my conclusion does not mean I am saying Mr L is 
to blame, as he has inferred, rather I do not find Barclays was at fault.
I know this service has already found that the other bank was equally not at fault. And I 
understand that this is infuriating for Mr L. But we are an evidence-based organisation and, 
as I said previously, there are unfortunately a very small number of cases we look at where 
based on the available evidence we just wont know why something happened.It follows I am not changing the outcome or findings I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman