DRN-4228384
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded three failed transactions he 
attempted on his account using a third-party payment method. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr C made a number of payments from his Barclays account. Some of 
these payments were successful but some were recorded by the third-party as failed. Mr C 
says that three failed payments were debited to his account and Barclays hasnt returned the 
funds. Mr C complained to Barclays, but it didnt uphold the complaint and has said that the 
failed payments had been reversed and that is why Mr Cs statements do not show the 
amount as credits to his account.
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. Initially our Investigator thought that Barclays hadnt 
returned the amounts to Mr C, but after Barclays provided further evidence, the Investigator 
thought that Barclays hadnt done anything significantly wrong. 
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has expressed his disappointment that the Investigator initially thought Barclays did 
something wrong. I acknowledge Mr Cs strong view in this regard, but the Investigator did 
explain at the time that her view may change if she received further information from Mr C or 
Barclays. This is what happened in this case - Barclays provided additional evidence for the 
Investigator to consider and this led to the Investigator changing her mind. I hope it will give 
Mr C some comfort that Ive Independently reviewed the complaint, the evidence, and the 
comments he and Barclays have provided before I reached my final decision. 
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed, but Ive decided that Barclays hasnt done 
anything significantly wrong. Although my reasons are very much in line with the 
Investigator, I will try and provide an explanation in a way I hope will help Mr C understand 
why I wont be asking Barclays to do anything else.
Mr C says he is concerned that Barclays hasnt refunded the failed payments and has 
provided evidence of the failed payment attempts. Mr C says these amounts appear on his 
bank statement with no associated credits. I will deal with each separately.
Payment of £807.75
Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statement and can see there are two debits to his account for 
£807.75 on 20 October. Mr C has provided evidence to show that he made two successful 
payments for this amount  through the third-party  on 19 October. Im satisfied that the 
information on Mr Cs bank statement makes it clear these two transactions were authorised 
and debited to his bank account on 19 October. However, on 20 October, Mr C attempted to 
make a further payment of £807.75 through the third-party, but this failed. This transaction 
doesnt appear on Mr Cs statement, but Ive seen that Barclays audit trail shows the failed 
transaction was reversed. Barclays has explained that it doesnt show this type of 
transaction on a bank statement as the payment request failed. It may have helped Mr Cs 
understanding if Barclays had told him this at the time. Regardless of this, Im satisfied that 
Barclays hasnt debited the transaction that failed on 20 October to his account, and Im 
satisfied Barclays doesnt hold Mr C funds in this regard.
Payments of £816.99
Ive reviewed Mr Cs bank statements and the audit trail provided by Barclays. Mr C 
attempted two payments of £816.99 and these payments failed. This is confirmed in a 
screenshot of Mr Cs transactions with the third-party. The screenshot also shows Mr C 
made a successful payment attempt, and Mr Cs bank statement shows that £816.99 was 
debited to his account on 20 October. The statement refers to this transaction being made 
on 18 October though the third-party. This supports Mr C did successfully authorise one 
payment of £816.99 through the third-party and that only one payment of £816.99 was 
debited to his account.
The audit trail provided by Barclays supports Mr C made three attempts through the third-
party for a payment of £816.99, and that two of these payments were reversed by Barclays. 
Although these reversals arent shown on Mr Cs bank statements, Im satisfied that Barclays 
only processed one successful payment for £816.99, which is more likely than not the 
payment request Mr Cs evidence confirms was successful. So, Im satisfied Barclays hasnt 
debited the two transactions that failed on 18 October to Mr Cs account, and Im satisfied 
Barclays doesnt hold Mr C funds in this regard.
Mr C says that other unpaid items are shown on his statements and has provided evidence 
of such an item. I acknowledge this is the case, but the item Mr C has referred me to is an 
unpaid direct debit and effectively Barclays had already debited Mr Cs account, rather than 
reversing a failed attempt to make a payment from the third-party.
Mr C may well have made payments that he hadnt intended through the third-party, but Im 
mindful that Mr C has told Barclays that he isnt disputing the payments he has made  Mr C 
only disputes that Barclays didnt credit all the failed attempts to back to his account. 
However, Im satisfied Barclays didnt debit the failed transactions to Mr Cs account in the 
first place but instead reversed all the payments that had failed.
My final decision
For the reasons provided above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman