DRN-4197159
The complaint
Miss W complains Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her she couldnt make payments 
between her accounts.
What happened
Miss W used her mobile banking app and saw Nationwide was doing some planned 
maintenance. Miss W read the message about the maintenance, but she says it didnt say 
she couldnt transfer money whilst the maintenance was being carried out.
Miss W logged into her app at the time the maintenance was taking place and tried to move 
money from one of her accounts to another, and she couldnt. This meant Miss W didnt 
have access to her money through her card, and had to use a credit card.
Miss W complained to Nationwide, and it replied to say it was sorry Miss W hadnt been able 
to use the app. But Nationwide said it notified app user 24 to 48 hours prior to planned 
maintenance and Miss W had used her app in that time.
Nationwide also said it tried to avoid too much disruption by limiting maintenance to 
weekends and early hours. Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this answer, Miss W brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld.
The investigator was satisfied Miss W saw the notifications about the maintenance and could 
have transferred the day before. The investigator thought Miss W could have used her credit 
card and paid it off once she had access again.
The investigator said the planned maintenance was in Nationwides terms and conditions 
and they didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Miss W disagreed and said the investigator had missed the point of her complaint. Miss W 
said the maintenance message didnt say she couldnt transfer money. Had Miss W been 
told this, shed have transferred the day before.
Miss W said she was fully aware there was maintenance going on at the time, but nowhere 
did it say Miss W couldnt make payments between accounts.
Miss W asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Nationwides app was undergoing maintenance at the time Miss W tried 
to transfer money. And theres no dispute Miss W was aware of the maintenance.
I have to decide whether Nationwide made it clear what Miss W could and couldnt do whilst 
the maintenance was taking place.
Nationwide has sent me an example of the message it displays when planned maintenance 
is taking place.
This message says: 
You wont be able to: make payments or move money from your accounts, view all your 
account transaction history.
Youll still be able to: log in to our internet Bank and Banking app, receive payments, 
withdraw money at cash machines, use your cards online and in shops.
Im satisfied this is the message Miss W would have seen when she used her app in the run 
up to the planned maintenance. So, Im satisfied Miss W was told she couldnt make 
payments or move money from her accounts.
Miss W has said she borrowed money off someone, rather than use her credit card. And 
whilst I acknowledge this would have been inconvenient, and potentially embarrassing for 
Miss W, I dont think this is Nationwides fault.
I think Nationwide clearly explained what Miss W could and couldnt do whilst it was carrying 
out planned maintenance. And because of this, I dont think Nationwide needs to do more to 
resolve Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman