DRN-1399395
 
The complaint
Mr R says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him.                          
What happened
This complaint is about one loan given to Mr R by Mr Lender in August 2012. Mr R borrowed 
£350 and was due to re repay it 19 days later. There was one rollover, which Mr R says was 
pre-agreed, but Mr R wasnt able to repay the loan as planned and needed to further defer 
his repayment on another three occasions by paying some additional interest. After the 
fourth rollover Mr R was able to repay the loan in January 2013. 
Mr Rs complaint was assessed by one of adjudicators. He didnt think Mr Lender had been 
wrong to give the loan to Mr R, but he didnt think it had been reasonable to place additional 
charges on Mr Rs account after his fourth rollover as Mr Lender should have reasonably 
suspected Mr R was experiencing some financial difficulty and should have considered a 
reduced repayment plan for the remaining balance. The adjudicator didnt think any charges 
or fees should have been made after the fourth rollover. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with the assessment. It said it wanted the complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. 
Before Mr Lender gave the loan, it established Mr Rs income. The repayment of the lending 
wasnt a significant proportion of Mr Rs income bearing in mind it potentially could be repaid 
within a short period of time, and appears affordable, so I agree that Mr Lender wasnt wrong 
to have given Mr R the loan in first instance. And bearing in mind this was the first loan I 
dont think it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to have asked Mr R for the 
amount of information that would be needed to have shown the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the loan. 
Mr R was unable to repay his loan as planned, so Mr Lender allowed him to defer his 
repayment by a month  which Mr R says this was agreed as the repayment was due at the 
end of August  by paying some additional interest. And as Ive said above, this happened 
on another three occasions. 
In 2012, when Mr R took the loan and asked to defer his repayments, there were no 
regulations about the number of times a consumer should be allowed to rollover. However, 
there was developing good industry practice that suggested a lender should only roll over 
their loan three times and this guidance came into effect in November 2012. So as this was 
the developing industry guidance at the time, I dont think its unreasonable to think about it 
here. 
But in any event asking for repeated rollovers is likely to be a good indication that a 
consumer is facing serious problems managing their finances. So, I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr Lender to have initiated that conversation  and in the specific 
circumstances of this case  after the fourth rollover. As by this point, Mr R would have paid 
more in roll over fees than hed original borrowed. So, Mr Lender could have acted more 
quickly and extended assistance to Mr R, rather than simply charging him a further months 
interest. So, Mr Lender needs to put things right for Mr R. 
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
Mr Lender should have charged additional fees to Mr R after the fourth deferral of this loan.
A. Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards 
fees and charges on this loan after the final rollover charge from 28 November 2012, 
including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including anything 
it has already refunded.B. Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Mr Lender should pay Mr R the total of A plus B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman