DRN-1664577
The complaint
Mr E complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services  terminated his agreement and pursued him for a shortfall.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire-purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The agreement was for a term of 60 months with monthly payments of £480.
In June 2018 Mr E wrote to BMWFS explaining that he'd been sent to prison and couldn't 
make payments under the agreement. Mr E cancelled his direct debit and the June payment 
wasn't collected so the account fell into arrears.
In June 2018 BMWFS sent a default notice to Mr E at his home address. The default notice 
said the account was in arrears by £480 and (incorrectly) advised Mr E that he had breached 
the agreement by failing to keep the car comprehensively insured.
In July 2018 Mr E wrote to BMWFS. He asked for his agreement to be frozen because he 
was in prison with no income. He said he intended to resume payments when he was 
released. Mr E made a payment on 4 July 2018 to bring the account back up to date. 
However, the July payment fell due on 5 July 2018 and this wasn't paid so the account fell 
into arrears again.
BMWFS wrote to Mr E at his prison address in July 2018. It advised him that due to his 
imprisonment and not being in possession of the car, it had issued a default notice which 
expired on 12 July 2018. BMWFS advised Mr E that he could voluntary terminate the 
agreement by returning the car, or he could settle the finance in full.
The agreement was subsequently terminated on 17 July 2018. BMWFS recovered the car 
and sold it. In October 2018 BMWFS wrote to Mr E advising him there was a shortfall under 
the agreement of £12,080.
In January 2019 BMWFS's solicitors wrote to the prison governor enclosing a letter for Mr E. 
The letter referred to the agreement and BMWFS's right to recover the car. It included a 
breakdown of the outstanding balance.The letter also incorrectly referred to a breach of the 
term requiring Mr E to keep the car insured.
Mr E complained to BMWFS. He said the solicitors were wrong to write to the prison 
governor because this had compromised his position at an open prison. He also said 
BMWFS had no right to take the car.
In its final response, BMWFS said an incorrect clause had been referred to in the default 
notice, and that it should have instead referred to a breach of the clause requiring Mr E to be 
in possession of the car. BMWFS said that because Mr E was in prison, he wouldn't have 
been able to remedy the possession clause. It said the agreement had been terminated and 
because Mr E had paid less than one third of the total amount payable, it didn't need his 
permission to recover and sell the car.BMWFS acknowledged that it had made an administrative error and offered to waive 
contractual interest, which reduced the outstanding balance to £8,246.69.
Mr E wasn't happy with BMWFS's response and complained to this service. He said 
BMWFS had taken the car without his permission. He wants the car returned to him, or a 
refund of all payments he's made under the agreement. He also wants BMWFS to stop 
pursuing him for the shortfall.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She said although the default notice was 
inaccurate, she was satisfied that BMWFs had the right to end the agreement. She also said 
that because Mr E had paid less than one third of the total amount payable under the 
agreement, BMWFS didn't need his permission to take the car. The investigator said 
BMWFS had acted fairly by waiving interest and placing collection on hold.
Mr E didn't agree. He said he'd never been told that he'd breached the agreement by not 
having the car in his possession. He said the car had been under his control in a secure 
garage. He also said he'd brought his account up to date and there weren't any arrears at 
the time the car was taken by BMWFS.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mr E's agreement. Clause 2 requires Mr E to 
maintain payments under the agreement and clause 4 requires him to keep the car in his 
possession.
I've also looked at the default notice. I'm satisfied that BMWFS acted reasonably in issuing 
the default notice because at the time it was issued, Mr E was in arrears under the 
agreement and wasn't in possession of the car. BMWFS has acknowledged that the default 
notice incorrectly referred to the insurance clause rather than the possession clause. I can 
see that this was an error. However, even if the default notice had referred to the possession 
clause, I don't think the outcome would have been any different because Mr E was in prison 
and not able to remedy his breach of the possession clause. I'm also satisfied that at the 
time of the default notice Mr E was in arrears under the agreement because he hadn't made 
the June payment.
I've taken account of Mr E's concerns that the agreement wasn't in arrears at the time when 
BMWFS took the car. I think it's the date of termination of the agreement rather than the date 
which BMWFS took the car which is relevant here. At the date when the agreement was 
terminated, Mr E's agreement was in arrears because he hadn't made the July payment 
(although he had brought the arrears from the June payment up to date).
Mr E has said he doesn't think BMWFS had the right to take the car. I've looked at the 
account and I can see that at the time when the agreement was terminated, Mr E had paid 
less than one third of the total amount payable under the agreement. Because of this, I'm 
satisfied that BMWFS didn't need to obtain Mr E's permission before it could take the car. So 
I'm unable to say that BMWFS has done anything wrong here.
I understand Mr E's concerns that a letter from BMWFS's solicitors was sent to him via the 
prison governor. Most letters sent to and from prisons are checked by prison staff. In the 
case of letters from a solicitor who is acting for a prisoner, these can't be opened by prisons staff except in exceptional circumstances. In this case, the letter wasn't from Mr E's solicitor 
but from BMWFS's solicitors. So on the face of it I think prison staff would have opened the 
letter anyway. 
Based on everything I've seen, I'm satisfied that Mr E breached his agreement by failing to 
maintain payments and by failing to keep the car in his possession. BMWFS made an error 
in the default notice but I don't think this has made any difference to the outcome. I think the 
offer to waive interest in recognition of the error in the default notice is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman