DRN-2294493
The complaint
Mrs B says Phoenix Life Limited failed to warn her about the risks of contracting out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) and taking out a personal pension plan. 
She says she wasnt informed about costs involved and that she has suffered financial 
detriment as a result of the unsuitable advice she received.
Mrs B is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
In 1990 Mrs B received advice from Phoenix Life not to join her then employers 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and to contract out of SERPS. It recommended she 
take out a Britannic Assurance personal pension plan instead, which she did.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), established 
an industry-wide review of certain pension business carried out by authorised firms between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pensions Review". 
Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to avoid the need for them to 
bring complaints later about what had happened.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs B and offered her a review of the advice it had given her in 1990. 
She agreed and the exercise took place in 2001. It wrote to her on 20 November of that year 
with the results of the review which had compared the benefits shed have accrued in her 
employers OPS with those delivered by her personal pension plan.
The letter set out the analysis it had undertaken and the key assumptions it had built its 
calculations around. It concluded:
From the investigations carried out, it appears that you have suffered a financial loss as a 
result of effecting a personal pension with Britannic Assurance instead of joining [your 
employers pension scheme.]
To put matters right Phoenix Life said:
The PIA [Personal Investment Authority] would normally require us to offer to reinstate you 
in your employer's pension scheme if possible. ln essence, this means that we would pay to 
put you back into that scheme, where you would be treated as if you had always been a 
member. However, the trustees of the above scheme currently do not allow reinstatement of 
benefits. Therefore, the PIA requires us to offer to pay extra money into your Britannic policy 
instead. 
Mrs B signed a form on 22 November 2001 accepting Phoenix Lifes offer in full and final 
settlement of the matter.
In July 2019 Mrs Bs representative complained to Phoenix Life on her behalf. It said the 
original advice for her to contract out of SERPS had been unsuitable. It said the money 
shed received from her personal pension, was less than the contributions she paid in. It said 
the charges applied to her plan had also eroded its value. And shed lost her additional state 
pension entitlement.
FR said Phoenix Life should use the Financial Conduct Authoritys latest redress guidelines 
to make sure she was put back into the position shed have been in if she hadnt taken its 
advice in 1990.
Phoenix Lifes response to the complaint was that the original advice for Mrs B to contract 
out of SERPS and not to join her employers OPS had already been reviewed and the matter 
settled through the Pension Review carried out in 2001. And it said the complaint had been 
brought out of time.
The Investigator concluded that because Mrs B hadnt been aware - and that nor ought she 
have been reasonably aware - of cause for complaint more than three years prior to her 
case being made to Phoenix Life, this Service could consider the merits of her case. I agree 
with his analysis and conclusion.
The Investigator went on to review Mrs Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. FR disagreed with 
his findings. It made the following points:
There is a major failing in how the calculation was carried out. The Period of Review 
assessed by the calculation was 1 April 1991 (when [Mrs B] was first eligible to join the DB 
scheme) to 26 March 1996 (when [her employer] was taken over by [another business].
[Mrs Bs] service actually ended on 21 April 1997, as confirmed in correspondence from 
[another business] dated 17 July 2001. It is therefore clear that the calculation was not 
carried out in line with the requirements, and that it resulted in a redress offer that was too 
low.
The FCA's rules are clear - when a firm did not carry out a review in line with SIB 
requirements, it is the FG17/9 guidance that should be used to determine appropriate 
redress.
So, Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify 
widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible into the 
position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice. Essentially then, 
it was meant to deal with a key element of the argument FR made on behalf of Mrs B  the 
unsuitability of the initial advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial 
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated 
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business 
needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement.
In many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. This, 
combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by personal 
pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following the Pension Review 
plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the OPS benefits at 
retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt in the end make up for the loss theyve now suffered. 
That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So, while FR might be correct 
the redress Mrs B accepted in 2001 didnt put her in the same position she wouldve been in 
but for her contracting out of SERPS and not joining her employers OPS, that doesnt mean 
I should direct a reassessment of the compensation shes received.
I recognise that many people like Mrs B will feel this is unfair. But changing market 
conditions that werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken, isnt a 
reason for this Service to require settlements made under that process to be undone and 
recalculations made. 
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had 
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfers
In 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final 
settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.Mrs Bs representative says the review carried out by Phoenix Life in 2001 wasnt done 
correctly, for the reasons Ive already set out. It says this shows its review was invalid and so 
the redress due to Mrs B should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.
Phoenix Lifes position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the requirements 
of the regulators at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have been 
found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, sex, 
marital status, pension transfer value has been used  I would normally direct the business 
involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, not now). 
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made and 
accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, the re-
calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
Phoenix Lifes approach to Mrs Bs Pension Review calculations
FR said Phoenix Life has made an error in its loss calculations in 2001 because it had used 
the wrong date for Mrs B leaving her employer. Phoenix Life responded in the following 
terms:
According to the [actuarys] notes on the calculation, the date of leaving the employer is not 
being disputedit was known that they left on 21/4/1997, but the calculation was modelled 
such that the end of the period of liability was taken to be on 26/3/1996, when the company 
was taken over.
[The actuary] added that this is [in Mrs Bs] favour as it is likely accrual probably would have 
ended earlier, when the original company went into liquidation in 1995. Many attempts were 
made in 2001 to obtain information regarding members accrued benefits at the time of the 
company take over in 1996 but this information was not available.
The offer which was then accepted by [Mrs B] clearly disclosed the date that was used as 
the end of liability i.e. 26/3/1996  was the date the company was taken over not when they 
left employment i.e. 21/4/1997.
I understand the employer Mrs B was with when she decided not to join its OPS went into 
liquidation in 1995. Its likely the pension scheme wouldve been closed at this time. So, I 
think the assumption the actuary made in 2001, to use the date of when the new business 
took over, in its calculations was reasonable.
Theres no record of Mrs B challenging any of the key assumptions used by Phoenix Life. 
These were clearly set out in the letter it sent her about the redress she was due. As was an 
invitation to get in touch should she have any questions or further information about these 
matters.
Mrs B was contracted-out of SERPS. This was an on-going choice. She couldve chosen to 
contract in or out of SERPS from tax-year to tax-year. In order to do this, she continued to 
pay the normal level of National Insurance contributions. But, once a year, the state paid 
(rebated) part of these contributions into her personal pension plan.This Service isnt a checking service, we do not employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what Phoenix Life and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then 
compared that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculation appears in line 
with the guidelines set out under the Pension Review and theres nothing obviously wrong. 
Neither has FR evidenced any such problem. 
The pension review process was subject to strict internal and external controls. The 
regulator checked a sample of cases from firms to make sure that they were carrying out the 
review process correctly. And had there been a problem with a particular approach taken 
then, I think the regulator wouldve addressed this at the time.
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise. Mrs B agreed to take part in it, and she 
received and has made use of the compensation Phoenix Life paid in respect of the 
unsuitable advice she received. 
While the passage of time might suggest that payment doesnt match her actual loss, I 
havent seen anything which makes me think Phoenix Life Limited didnt act fairly in 
conducting the review of its original transaction with Mrs B in 1990, or in settling matters with 
her in 2001. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman