DRN-3398885
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr B alleges that the installer misled Mr B into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She initially thought the 
complaint should be upheld, which Ikano did agree to and made an offer to settle the 
complaint. This offer wasnt accepted by Mr B as it didnt appear to be correct, so he asked 
Ikano to revise its calculation. But when reviewing the case, Ikano pointed out that the 
documents from the time of sale indicated that the installer had made it clear the panels 
would not be self-funding, and therefore no longer agreed to uphold his complaint. 
On review of those documents, our adjudicator explained that, the documents from the time 
of sale (which Mr B signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system would 
not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not be immediately self-funding 
in the way Mr B says he was led to believe. So, the adjudicator did not think such a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr B didnt agree to our adjudicators view of the complaint. Mr B (through his 
representative) said Ikano had originally agreed to uphold his complaint so it must agree the 
solar panels were misrepresented to him. As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our 
adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
There is a document tiled FEED IN TARIFF AND PAYBACK amongst the sales documents 
used by the installer. I can see it sets out the cash price of the solar panel system (£7,075) 
directly next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system 
(£384.87). Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly 
visible. And Mr B has signed directly beneath this section  So, I think he wouldve, at the 
very least, seen this comparison when he signed the document. Also in the section 
comparing the likely benefit of the solar panels with the cash price, there is a short hand 
written note recording that the panels were being purchased using a buy now pay later loan 
and that payments would be deferred for 12 months. 
Im satisfied that from a quick review of these figures that it ought to have been clear to Mr B 
that the solar panels would likely produce around £384.87 in benefit in the first year, and that 
the cash price of the panels was £7,075, and that a loan was being used to pay for the solar 
panels. I understand he took out a 4-year loan. Overall, based on these figures, I think it 
would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way he 
says he was told they would be. 
As explained above, Mr B took out a loan to fund the purchase of the solar panel system, 
further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay not only the cash price of the solar panels, 
but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. His credit agreement is very clear, and it 
shows that hed have to pay monthly payments of £359.32 over 3 years after a deferral 
period of 12 months. So, the monthly payment due under the finance agreement that he 
agreed to was £359.32, and that is only marginally less than a full years estimated benefit of 
£384.87. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit 
provided by the system, would be insufficient to cover the cash price of the solar panels, and 
also wouldnt cover the monthly finance payments. 
If Mr B had been told something different, on being asked to sign the estimated returns 
document, and agree to the credit agreement, I would have expected him to have 
questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he did, so I think that suggests 
that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Bs understanding, at that time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Bs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
I understand Mr B must be disappointed with Ikanos withdrawal of its original offer to settle 
the case. But as that offer has been withdrawn, and I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld, Im afraid I dont think Ikano needs to do anything further in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman