DRN-3858249
The complaint
Miss P and Mr S are unhappy that they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when 
they sold their house and redeemed their mortgage with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Miss P and Mr S took out their mortgage in 2020. They borrowed £277,500 (plus fees) on a 
repayment basis over a 40-year term. The interest rate was fixed at 1.59% until 2 October 
2025, with an ERC for that same period.
In August 2022 Miss P and Mr S sold the property and repaid the mortgage. Ahead of the 
sale theyd asked Santander to waive the ERC. Santander declined their request, and so a 
formal complaint was raised.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out clearly in the 
paperwork and Santander had applied it correctly. 
Miss P and Mr S didnt agree, and so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Miss P and Mr S feel very strongly about this, and I thank them for the 
openness of their submissions. I wont detail everything that theyve told us about their 
circumstances as it is sensitive, however I can assure them that Ive read and understood 
everything and taken it all into account.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Miss P and Mr S mortgage was 
repaid, there was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the 
mortgage to be repaid if Miss P and Mr S paid an ERC.
Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should 
have been readily understandable to Miss P and Mr S; certainly, the information about the 
ERC was set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded 
Miss P and Mr S knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if 
they repaid the mortgage on or before 2 October 2025.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Miss P and Mr S ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
Miss P and Mr S have told us they had no option but to sell their house and redeem the 
mortgage due to their circumstances. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Miss P 
and Mr S found themselves in, but their situation wasnt unusual. Many customers have to 
sell their homes (some for similar reasons, and others for other equally valid reasons). It 
would be highly unfair for Santander to treat Miss P and Mr S any differently from how it 
would treat any other customer that has to sell their home whilst there is an ERC on their 
mortgage.
Had there been insufficient equity to repay the mortgage and ERC then Santander could 
have looked at this again, but the sale price of Miss P and Mr S property was more than 
sufficient to cover the full amount they owed (that is, the mortgage balance plus the ERC) 
and, having considered everything, there are no grounds for me to order Santander to refund 
the ERC (either in full or in part).
Miss P and Mr S have also said that their solicitor didnt have authority to release the surplus 
funds to them on completion, saying that was the fault of Santander. Ive looked at the 
account history and I can see that twice Santander notified Miss P and Mr S solicitor that it 
needed a letter of authority from Miss P and Mr S, which hadnt been received. 
Miss P and Mr S have also said that Santander didnt keep them updated with what was 
happening with their request to waive the ERC and subsequent complaint, only being told on 
the day of completion that the ERC was due. Santander told Miss P and Mr S that it wouldnt 
waive the ERC on 19 July  a month before completion  it was their appeal that took longer, 
which is understandable. Whilst I acknowledge the delay in being told the appeal wasnt 
successful took some time, Miss P and Mr S had already been told the ERC wouldnt be 
waived and so would have been proceeding in that knowledge. For all the reasons given I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman