DRN-4034649
The complaint
Miss R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd took too long to return money in her bank account. 
Shes also unhappy about how Monzo handled her loan repayments whilst her account was 
blocked and says that the bank unfairly recorded a default marker on her credit file. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here. In summary:
Miss R had a current account with Monzo which she opened in 2018. In October 
2019, Miss R took out a loan with Monzo. The monthly repayments for the loan were 
around £270 which were paid by direct debit from her Monzo personal account.
In November 2020, Miss Rs account was restricted by Monzo following a freezing 
order being issued by the court. This meant Miss R was unable to make any 
transactions, including her loan repayments from her account. 
Between December 2020 and February 2021, Miss Rs loan payments continued to 
be taken by Monzo from her frozen account. This meant her account went into an 
unarranged overdraft of around £1,000, and when the loan could no longer be repaid 
from Miss Rs current account it fell into arrears, which then appeared on Miss Rs 
credit file.
On 4 March 2021, Miss R contacted Monzo about how she could continue to make 
her loan repayments, whilst her account was frozen. At the time she was behind on 
her loan (only one payment missed). But Monzo didnt confirm the details about how 
she could do this until 15 June 2021, by this time Miss R was behind on her loan by 
four payments (£1,096.48). Monzo also recorded late payment markers against 
Miss R for not repaying the overdraft.
Miss R says she did her very best to repay the loan, but Monzo hasnt helped her 
and didnt let her know how she could carry on making her repayments. Monzo 
accepted that it should have provided Miss R with the information needed to make 
her repayments in March 2021 when shed contacted the bank. It apologised and 
refunded Miss R the overdraft fees it had charged.
On 17 March 2021, Miss R received a letter from the court to say that the freezing 
order had been set aside and that Monzo could now release the balance of her 
account. Miss R provided the letter to Monzo. However, the bank didnt release Miss 
Rs money.
Throughout March and May 2021 Miss R chased Monzo about how she could 
continue to make her loan repayments and asked the bank to stop sending her 
messages that her loan repayments had fallen behind. She explained that as her 
account had closed, she no longer had access to her banking app so couldnt make 
payments as shed previously done. Monzo apologized and said it would escalate 
things.
On 24 March 2021, Monzo sent Miss R a message via its banking app asking her to 
provide details of an account so that it could release her balance back to her. But as 
Miss R didnt have access to the banking app, she never saw this message.
On 21 May 2021, Miss R complained to Monzo. She was unhappy that her loan 
repayments had fallen behind and that Monzo hadnt been in touch with her about 
sorting things out. In response Monzo apologized for not contacting Miss R sooner, it 
said the messages Miss R had received regarding her loan repayments had been 
generated automatically from its systems as part of its processes. And that it would 
explain by 15 June 2021 what Miss R could do regarding her loan repayments. 
Monzo also offered Miss R £50 compensation for providing her with poor service. 
On 15 June 2021 Monzo emailed Miss R and offered her the following options 
regarding her loan repayments: she could clear the outstanding amount owed using 
her current account balance (which had now been unfrozen); She could repay the 
loan arrears from March  June 2021 and it provided specific account details for her 
to make the payment, if Miss R chose to do this the previous loan repayment 
schedule would continue; if Miss R couldnt repay the arrears it would be open to 
discuss a suitable repayment plan. Monzo also explained that non-payment of the 
loan would result in the account being defaulted and this would impact her credit file.
On 19 June 2021, Miss R responded to Monzos email. She said she felt that 
Monzos actions had led to a build-up of arrears, but she didnt explain what option 
she preferred regarding repaying her loan. She also complained that her account had 
been closed. In response, Monzo repeated the options it had set out in its email of 15 
June 2021. 
On 21 June 2021, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. 
Throughout August 2021, Monzo sent Miss R text messages about the loan arrears 
which had built up between March and August 2021 (£1,644.72). In the messages 
Monzo told Miss R that if it didnt hear from her by 2 September 2021, the loan would 
be defaulted. Monzo explained that this would remain on Miss Rs credit file for six 
years and would make any future borrowing harder and more expensive. It also gave 
Miss R details of how to contact Monzo to rectify this matter.
On 6 August 2021, Monzo contacted Miss R to obtain details of an account so that it 
could return her account balance. On 17 August 2021, Miss R confirmed which 
account she wanted her balance paid into.
On 2 September 2021, Monzo sent Miss R a text message to let her know it had 
defaulted her loan account. In response, on 9 September 2021, Miss R made a 
payment to clear the arrears.
In March 2022, Miss Rs solicitor contacted Monzo and asked the bank to return Miss Rs balance as the freezing order was no longer in place. And said that the 
funds could then be used to repay Miss Rs loan.
On 1 April 2022, Monzo responded to Miss Rs solicitor. It said that it had refunded 
£75.06 worth of overdraft fees to Miss Rs account balance (charged between 
December 2020 and March 2021). The bank also provided Miss Rs account balance 
and details about how much she still owed on her loan. It said the balance could be 
used to clear the loan. Alternatively, it was still willing to put a suitable repayment 
plan in place. Monzo said if this was done within 30 days it would remove the default.
On 4 April 2022, Miss Rs solicitor provided details of an account to Monzo to release 
her funds. Monzo released just over £11,500 back to Miss R on 3 May 2022.
On 5 May 2022 Monzo emailed Miss R to ask her how she wanted to proceed with 
making her loan repayments. Miss R didnt respond. Monzo sent further chasers to 
Miss R and her solicitor on 17 and 30 May 2022. But again, no response was 
received. 
In response to Miss Rs complaint, Monzo accepted it should have provided Miss R with 
information about how she could repay her loan in March 2021 instead of June 2021. And 
that it took too long to release her funds once the freezing order had been lifted. To put 
things right Monzo offered Miss R £300 compensation, refunded the overdraft fees and 8% 
interest for loss of use of Miss Rs funds. 
Miss R didnt accept Monzos offer. She said Monzos actions had impacted her credit score, 
which means it will now be harder for her to get a mortgage. Shes also explained that her 
credit card limit has been reduced because of the information Monzo recorded on her credit 
file. She wants Monzo to remove the default and put a repayment plan in place.
An investigator reviewed Miss Rs complaint. She said that Monzo hadnt done anything 
wrong when it closed Miss Rs account. However, she said Monzo should have returned 
Miss Rs account balance to her sooner than it did. So, she said Monzo should pay Miss R 
8% interest on her balance from 1 March 2021 until 3 May 2022 and that £300 
compensation Monzo had offered was fair for the trouble and upset Miss R had been caused 
by Monzos actions. 
The investigator said that Monzo shouldnt have taken Miss Rs loan repayments from her 
blocked account which led to Miss Rs account entering an unarranged overdraft. However, 
she said that this didnt cause Miss R any financial loss as the overdraft was cleared once 
Miss Rs frozen balance was unfrozen and Monzo had refunded the overdraft fees. The 
investigator said that Monzo should remove the late payment markers it applied relating to 
the unauthorised overdraft that Miss R found herself in. However, the investigator said that 
Monzo had given Miss R a number of opportunities to repay the loan, including setting up a 
repayment plan. But Miss R hadnt made any repayments. So, she said Monzo hadnt done 
anything wrong when it applied the default marker against Miss Rs credit file.
Monzo agreed with the investigators recommendations. Miss R didnt. She wants Monzo to 
remove the default marker and says that the bank never offered her a repayment plan. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has provided detailed submissions to this service and made a number of points. Ive 
considered everything shes said and sent to us. But in line with this services role as an 
informal body Ill be focussing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this approach. I do stress however 
that Ive considered everything that Miss R and Monzo have said before reaching my 
decision.
Account block, closure and return of funds
Monzo has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. In addition to their regulatory obligations Monzo must also comply with any order 
of a court. Monzo blocked Miss Rs account in November 2020, after it had received a court 
order that Miss Rs account activity was being investigated by law enforcement for money 
laundering. So, I cant say Monzo treated Miss R unfairly when it froze her account because 
once an order was granted in respect of Miss Rs account, Monzo had a duty to act on it.
I then turn to the closure of Miss Rs account. Miss R says Monzo has treated her unfairly by 
closing her account. She has stressed that she has always maintained her account properly.  
I appreciate how Miss R feels  it cant be pleasant being told that you are no longer wanted 
as a customer. But banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or 
continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
open or close accounts. Providing an account to a customer is also a commercial decision 
that a financial institution is entitled to take. That is because it has the commercial freedom 
to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt close an 
account for an improper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful discrimination. And 
they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Miss Rs account immediately. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and 
circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Monzo acted in line with them, so, it was 
entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I wont be asking Monzo to do 
anything to resolve this aspect of Miss Rs complaint.
Withholding Miss Rs account balance
Miss R couldnt access the money in her account from mid November 2020 until March 2021 
due to a freezing order on the account. Miss R informed Monzo that the freezing order had 
been discharged on 17 March 2021. But it didnt release Miss Rs funds to her until May 
2022. Monzo have accepted it should have returned Miss Rs money back to her much 
sooner than it did. It explained that it didnt release Miss Rs funds sooner as she didnt 
respond to the banks questions about whether she wanted to use the funds to repay her 
loan. 
Ive thought carefully about this, having reviewed all of the evidence Monzo has sent, like our 
investigator, Im not persuaded that Monzo couldnt have released this money sooner. While 
we wouldnt usually give a certain timeframe that a bank should react to a discharge order, Id expect any action to take place in a timely manner without any undue delays. I also dont 
think Miss Rs lack of response meant Monzo couldnt release her balance sooner than it did 
 after all she had given Monzo details of another bank account to pay the funds into. So, I 
find withholding the money from Miss R, after 17 March 2021 unreasonable and therefore 
think Monzo need to recognise this loss of use. 
Monzo has apologised and offered Miss R 8% simple interest on the funds from 1 March 
2021, however its not clear what date this is up to. I think its fair and reasonable that Monzo 
should pay 8% simple interest up until 3 May 2022, which is the date it finally released Miss 
Rs funds back to her. Monzo have also offered Miss R £300 compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused.  I think that is a fair amount and I see no reason to increase it. 
Loan account Default
Miss Rs wants Monzo to remove the default from her credit file. Shes explained that the 
marker has led to her credit card limit being reduced. And she is understandably concerned 
that it will lead to her having difficulties obtaining a mortgage in the future. She has 
consistently told us that at no time did Monzo offer her a repayment plan and that she has 
always been willing to make her repayments.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three 
months. Miss R missed six loan repayments in total  she didnt make a repayment between 
March and August 2021. Miss R says this is because Monzo didnt let her know how she 
could continue to make her loan repayments after it had closed her account  in other words 
its the banks fault.
Ive read everything Miss R has said about the trouble she had trying to sort out how to 
continue to make her loan repayments. And Ive looked at all the available emails between 
Miss R, her solicitor and Monzo. So, Im aware of the difficulty during this timeframe and that 
Miss R was at times chasing Monzo about how she could carry on making her loan 
repayments. 
Monzo has accepted it didnt handle things as well as it should have done, and that it should 
have provided Miss R with the information she needed to carry on with her loan repayments 
much sooner than it did. Im pleased to see that it tried to get things back on track. Contrary 
to what Miss R has said, I can see that Monzo recognised that Miss R might have found it 
difficult to repay the repayment arrears, so it offered Miss R a repayment plan in June 2021. 
It also sent her several text messages about the arrears. So, Miss R knew what she owed 
and that she could set up a repayment plan.
Miss R says that Monzo didnt tell her how she could make repayments. I dont agree. I 
accept that there was a delay in Monzo giving Miss R this information. And Ive addressed 
this above. But I can see that on 15 June 2021 Monzo sent Miss R an email which provided 
her with specific details of an alternative bank account she could use to make her loan 
repayments. So, Im satisfied that Monzo gave Miss R the information she needed to carry 
on with her loan repayments  albeit the bank should have done so in March 2021. Despite 
having this information Miss R didnt make any repayments.
Monzo sent Miss R another email on 19 June 2021 reiterating what it had said in its email on 
15 June 2021. But again, Miss R didnt act on this. Throughout August 2021 I can also see 
that Monzo sent Miss R several text messages about making her loan repayments. The 
bank also sent Miss R (and her solicitor) further opportunities to get her loan back on track 
on 1 April 2022 and 8 June 2022. This included the bank offering to remove the default 
marker providing a suitable loan repayment option was agreed. Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me shes no longer obligated to repay what she owes Monzo. Ive not seen any evidence that Miss R no longer owed Monzo money. And most importantly theres no 
evidence that Miss R responded to Monzos offers.
Monzo sent Miss R a notice of default via email. The notice set out that Miss R had a set 
timeframe to either repay the outstanding arrears or to come to an arrangement with them by 
that date, which in this case was 2 September 2021. Miss R didnt make a payment until 9 
September 2021. I can see that Miss R had been making her loan repayments up until her 
account was frozen. And that she was chasing Monzo to tell her how she could carry on 
making her repayments. But she did not make a payment between March and August 2021. 
As an arrangement had not been put in place (despite Monzo giving Miss R several 
opportunities and different options) Monzo defaulted the account. 
Ive considered whether Monzo were fair to do this. And although I know Miss R will strongly 
disagree with me, Im satisfied that Monzo were fair to record a default marker. I say this 
because Monzo had provided Miss R with alternative bank account details in June 2021, so 
that she could carry on making her loan repayments after her account had been closed. 
Monzo also wrote to Miss R on two separate occasions setting out the available options 
including setting up a repayment plan. The bank clearly set out the actions it would take if 
they couldnt agree to an arrangement or Miss R chose not to pay off the outstanding 
balance. So, Im satisfied that Miss R was aware that this could happen and that Monzo, 
despite its mistakes, tried to put things right on several occasions with Miss R. But despite 
Miss R saying she wanted to make her repayments or set up a repayment plan Ive not seen 
any evidence that she has made any repayments. Its for these reasons that I cannot agree 
that Monzo have treated Miss R unfairly.
In summary, in order for me to ask Monzo to remove the default, I would need to see that 
they had registered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several 
months and they had sent emails, and text messages with the implication of what would 
happen if Miss R didnt make repayments, including a default notice, Im satisfied that Monzo 
did not make an error in defaulting the account. I understand that this decision may have an 
impact on Miss R getting a mortgage in the future as any lender will see the default on Miss 
Rs credit file, so I havent taken this decision lightly, but it follows that I am not going to ask 
Monzo to remove the default.
Unauthorised overdraft
Its disappointing that Monzo continued to take Miss Rs loan repayments from her blocked 
account between December 2020 and February 2021. At the time Miss R didnt have 
enough money in her account to meet the payments of around £270 each month. This 
resulted in Miss Rs account going into an overdraft of just under £1,000. The terms of Miss 
Rs account state well decline any payments (including standing orders and Direct Debits) 
that would take you over your main available balance unless you have an overdraft. Miss R 
didnt have an overdraft, so in allowing the loan repayments to debit her account, Monzo 
acted outside the terms of the account.
Monzo has accepted it made a mistake doing this and have refunded fees of just over £75 
that were accrued during this period. It has also agreed to remove the late payment markers 
it recorded against Miss R for the loan repayments between April  June 2021, which I think 
is a reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Miss Rs complaint.  I can also see that once 
Miss Rs blocked funds entered her account after the discharge of the freezing order, the 
overdraft was cleared in full.  So, I cant see that Miss R has lost out financially by Monzos 
mistake and I wont be asking them to do anything more regarding this aspect of Miss Rs 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part. To put things right, Monzo Bank 
Ltd should:
Pay Miss R a total of £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused for the 
time taken for Monzo to release Miss Rs balance and poor service
Pay Miss R 8% simple interest per year for the sum in Miss Rs account from 1 
March 2021 until 3 May 2022 
Remove the missed payment markers recorded against Miss Rs current account
HM Revenue & Customs require Monzo Bank Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
abovementioned interest. Monzo should give Miss R a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman