DRN-4492923
The complaint
Mr S complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED are recording incorrect data about him in relation to 
his credit file.
What happened
When Mr S referred his complaint to this service, in summary he said:
On 13 August 2022, two hard searches were viewable on his credit file which had 
been carried out by a lender Ill refer to as C. Mr S referred to these hard searches 
as being illegal.
Mr S says that when checking his credit file, he noticed that the searches had 
disappeared. 
Mr S says that Equifax contacted C without his permission and deleted the hard 
searches from his credit file.
Equifax denied and lied about if there were hard searches.
On multiple occasions, Equifax didnt call him back
Equifax caused severe damage to his credit file and concealed the information he 
was looking for and deleted it.
Equifax provided him with poor customer service. 
Mr S says the result of all this is that the cost of credit available to him has increased and 
hes wasted 100 hours of dealing with the complaint. To put things right, Mr S says he wants 
at least £5,000 compensation. 
Looking at whats happened here, it appears Mr S wanted to apply for some credit with C. 
And for one reason or another, C searched Mr Ss credit file twice  which left a footprint on 
his credit file in the form of two hard searches. Equifax disputed these with C, and C 
confirmed both searches could be removed. But Mr S says that he couldnt view any of the 
searches from C on his credit report  and Equifax were deliberately hiding information from 
him.
Equifax responded to Mr Ss complaint and upheld it in part. It paid him £50 for providing him 
with some incorrect information during a phone call. However, it confirmed that the reason 
the searches by C werent showing on his credit report was because Mr S had more than 99 
searches showing  and the viewable report can only show a maximum of 99 searches.
Unhappy with Equifaxs response, Mr S asked this service to look into the matter. An 
Investigator considered what both parties has said, but they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
The Investigator felt that Equifaxs offer of £50 was fair and reasonable for the customer 
service issues. 
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator and reiterated that his complaint with Equifax is about 
the searches missing from his credit file. And he felt that his credit score was being 
impacted. 
Essentially, an agreement couldnt be reached, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mr S has raised. I 
dont intend to offend him by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
This reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether Equifax did anything wrong.  
Mr S has said that The hard searches (after Equifax accidentally provided the evidence) is 
now not in dispute. So I havent gone on to consider this point further.
Mr Ss complaint essentially now appears to stem from what searches are showing on his 
viewable credit report. Both Equifax and the Investigator have already explained to Mr S why 
some searches arent viewable on his credit report and others not. This is because the credit 
report he can see online will only allow a maximum of 99 searches to be viewable on the 
report. Any searches beyond this number will likely still be recorded by Equifax on its 
database  but it simply cant record every single one of these over 99 on the credit report 
because it doesnt have the facility to do so. I dont think Equifax has done anything wrong 
here. And Im satisfied with the explanation it has provided. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it likely the searches not showing on Mr Ss report are what 
are known as soft searches. These are searches that have left a footprint on Mr Ss credit 
report but arent viewable to lenders. I have noted what Mr S has said that his credit 
worthiness has been impacted by searches not showing on his credit report, but I find this to 
be very unlikely. As I said, soft searches arent viewable to lenders  so a lender wouldnt be 
able to see the soft search regardless of whether it was on a credit report or not. 
Even if Equifax had deleted the searches as Mr S has a times suggested it had, I still 
wouldnt uphold this complaint on that basis. Thats because the impact of Equifax deleting 
the search wouldnt likely have a negative effect on Mr Ss credit worthiness  and Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest that it has. 
Taking everything into account, I havent found that Equifax has done anything wrong. 
I note that Equifax did uphold Mr Ss complaint for some customer service issues he had. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think this is a fair amount and in line with this services general 
approach to distress and inconvenience awards. I wont be asking Equifax to increase this 
award.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman