DRN-3478274
The complaint
Miss J has complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans was 
irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In December 2017 Likely Loans provided Miss J with a loan of £500 repayable over 12 
months at an APR of 89.90% with monthly repayments of £57.98. The loan has been repaid.
Miss J complained that Likely Loans hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to her. 
She said she already had a large overdraft at the time she took out the loan. Likely Loans 
didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss J referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Miss J and had made a 
fair lending decision. 
As Miss J didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Js complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss J would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss J wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
When Miss J applied for the loan, Likely Loans verified that her monthly income was 
£1,192.67. Based on figures from the Office of National Statistics her living expenses would 
have been around £759.63. Her existing credit commitments according to its credit search 
were £230 a month. That meant after her new loan repayment to Likely Loans shed have a 
disposable income of £145.06 a month.
The credit search revealed that Miss J owed a total of £3,826.00 at the time of her 
application. She was paying her active credit commitments as required. While she had 
missed some payments with one of her active creditors, this had been brought back up to 
date two months prior to her application. According to the credit file data Miss J had never 
defaulted with any of her creditors, and she had no prior county court judgments or 
recorded bankruptcies. In addition, there was no evidence of payday lending, indicating that 
Miss J was not reliant on this type of borrowing. In summary there was nothing very 
concerning revealed by the credit search. 
I think the checks carried out by Likely Loans were proportionate given the size and term of 
the loan and the value of the repayment in relation to Miss Js monthly income So I dont 
think Likely Loans ought to have been concerned the loan wouldnt be sustainably 
affordable for Miss J. It follows that I dont think Likely Loans was wrong to lend to Miss J. Ive also thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman