DRN-2646950
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the salvage value Aviva Insurance Limited placed on her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. Mrs P is represented in this matter by her 
husband, Mr P. 
What happened
Mrs P was involved in an accident and her car was deemed a category N total loss. Mrs P 
wanted to retain the cars salvage and Aviva said it would charge her £570 for this. It said it 
was its standard practice to charge 30% of category N cars valuations for salvage. Mrs Ps 
car had been valued at £1,900. But Mrs P said shed seen similar cars with a salvage value 
of £400. She wanted Aviva to reduce its price. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Aviva was accountable for the charge another company had made for salvage. She thought 
Aviva had shown that it had adopted a standard approach to valuing salvage. So she didnt 
think it needed to reduce its price for the salvage.  
Mr P replied that he had provided evidence from an independent source that the true market 
value for the salvage was £400. He didnt think Aviva should apply a standard approach to 
salvage values. He thought this wasnt stated in the policy documents. He provided further 
evidence of salvage values for similar cars that he said showed that Avivas salvage 
valuation was excessive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs P doesnt want to pay over the odds to retain her cars salvage. I 
can see that Mr P argued successfully to increase the pre-accident valuation of Mrs Ps car. 
But that doesnt mean that Aviva needs to decrease its salvage price.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I agree with Mr P that Mrs Ps policy doesnt explain what will happen with the salvage if her 
car is deemed to be a write-off following a claim. 
Policy terms often say that the business will pay the pre-accident market value and take 
ownership of the damaged car if the car is stolen, or a total loss. But even if the policy 
doesnt say it can keep the car and charge what it gets for the salvage, were still likely to 
say its fair for the insurer to do this, provided it can show it would have received the amount 
its deducted. This is because its a general principle of insurance that when an insurer pays 
out for a total loss, it gets to retain the damaged item if its available or if its stolen and 
recovered. 
So when an insurer allows a consumer to retain the salvage it will usually deduct what it 
would have received when disposing of the salvage (under its commercial arrangement with 
a salvage dealer). 
So we need to assess whether the deduction by the business is fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances of the case. When considering whats fair and reasonable we first need to ask 
the business to provide evidence or at least confirm what it would receive from its salvage 
scheme. 
Aviva has provided evidence that it charges a standard 30% of a vehicles pre-accident 
value when its a category N total loss. And its provided evidence, which Im unable to share 
as its commercially sensitive, that it would have received about this amount from its salvage 
agent. So I cant say that Aviva applying a 30% deduction for the salvage of Mrs Ps car was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
So I think Aviva was entitled to charge a standard rate for the price of Mrs P retaining her 
cars salvage. I think its justified this charge and I think its shown that it has treated Mrs P 
the same as anyone else in her position. 
Mr P provided examples of similar cars auctioned at lower prices by a different business. But 
I cant say that this means that Aviva has to charge what these companies charged. In any 
case, Aviva has explained that an auction price of £400 would be increased by charges and 
commission which would bring it into line with Avivas charge. 
Mrs Ps cars pre-accident value was £1,900. 30% of this is about £570. So I cant say that 
Avivas acted unfairly or unreasonably or needs to reduce its charge for the salvage.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman