DRN-3469063
The complaint
Mr A complains about a loan provided to him by Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, 
(Bamboo), which he says was unaffordable. 
What happened
Bamboo entered into an agreement for a loan for Mr A in August 2021. The loan was for 
£9,000 and was repayable by 47 monthly payments of £325.68 and one monthly payment 
for £325.62. The interest rate was 30.31%, (34.9% APR). If Mr A made each repayment 
when it was due, the total amount payable was £15,632.58. Mr A told Bamboo that the loan 
was to be used for debt consolidation.  
Mr A said, in summary, that the loan was provided irresponsibly and was unsustainable, due 
to his credit situation, income and his lack of understanding regarding financial matters. He 
was desperate for the funds to try and clear his outstanding credit card, loans, and catalogue  
balances that he was struggling to find the funds to pay. He thought the loan would clear all 
his debts, but he was still left with over £4,000 of outstanding credit leading him into a worse 
situation, causing unnecessary financial stress and worry. Mr A said that Bamboo had the 
full picture of his finances, including full access to his banking transactions, a credit report, 
and payslips (detailing his monthly income before overtime). Bamboo would have clearly 
seen from this that every month he was constantly maxing out his overdraft. This should 
have been a clear indication of how much he was struggling, yet Bamboo found this 
acceptable and lent to him.
In its final response letter, Bamboo said it was prepared to make a goodwill offer in full and 
final settlement of the complaint. It said that if Mr A returned the loan advance of £9,000 to it 
within 21 days, it would close this loan, with no further monies due.
Mr A rejected Bamboos offer.
Our investigators view
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr A 
used his overdraft and other forms of credit so frequently that she thought this was a strong 
indication that he had no disposable income to service this loan in a sustainable manner. So, 
she thought it reasonable to suggest that Mr A was in an unaffordable cycle of debt and 
would most likely need to borrow to sustain the loan repayments. 
Bamboo disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that
 
- It was aware that Mr As payslips showed that a portion of his income was from 
overtime. But Mr A told it that he was contracted to work additional hours each month.
- It used Mr As banking records to evidence that the average of Mr As last 12 months 
wage credits was in line with the income that he declared within his application. 
- It used higher expenditure figures within its affordability calculation as it liked to be 
conservative in its assumptions. It believed that its affordability assessment was a good 
indication of Mr As financial situation at the time. 
- It believed that it was fair and reasonable to accept the income that had been declared 
by Mr A as true, and there was no suggestion that Mr A had lied about the status of his 
overtime. 
- It disagreed that Mr As bank statements showed that he was in financial difficulty. 
Bamboo said he used his overdraft as a revolving credit facility, much like a credit card, 
and stayed well within the prescribed limit, and managed the account well. 
- Consolidating most of Mr As revolving credit into a fixed term loan put him into a 
significantly better position than he would have been prior to its loan. 
The investigator responded to say that by reviewing Mr As payslips, it was evident that part 
of his income was from overtime which wasnt a guaranteed form of income. This type of 
income couldnt be relied on and shouldnt have been taken as part of his income. She 
thought his actual monthly income was lower (£1,450).
She also said that although Bamboo had viewed Mr As income amounts in his open banking 
records, it also had access to two of his payslips which showed a significant portion of his 
income was from working extra hours, which shouldve been taken into account. There were 
several occasions when Mr A had earned less than the income amount Bamboo relied on in 
its calculations. If Mr As basic income had been used, she thought Bamboo wouldve 
realised that this loan was unaffordable. 
In addition, the investigator said that as Bamboo had access to Mr As bank statements, it 
wouldve seen what he was actually spending on credit and essential bills instead of relying 
on estimated expenditure. She noted that Bamboo had used higher expenditure figures in its 
calculations, but these werent actual expenditure figures which reflected his circumstances. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A
and to Bamboo on 7 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Bamboo was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr As creditworthiness before it entered into the agreement. This meant that 
Bamboo had to consider both the risk to it that Mr A wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr A of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Bamboo had to consider Mr As ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Id noted that Bamboo had gathered some information from Mr A about his income and 
accommodation expenses and it saw two payslips before it agreed the loan. It assessed his 
other regular expenditure using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). It had 
also carried out a credit check and saw Mr As bank transaction data. Bamboo also spoke to 
Mr A on the phone to query his income, the payment holidays hed taken on some of his 
debts and it discussed his proposed debt consolidation with him. Id listened to a recording of 
that call.
Mr A was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of four years. So, I thought it was right that Bamboo wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr As financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above 
allowed Bamboo to form a detailed view of Mr As finances. I thought that the checks 
Bamboo did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of Bamboos checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
Mr A told Bamboo he was single and had no dependents. He said his monthly income was 
£1,891. The lender used the results of its credit checks to calculate Mr As monthly credit 
commitments to be £761.98. But it adjusted that amount by £227.97 because the loan was 
to be used for debt consolidation. It had also estimated Mr As expenditure to be £323.59 
using ONS data. 
Id noted that Mr A said that his net monthly income was £1,891. Bamboo saw two of Mr As 
payslips for June 2021 and July 2021. The July payslip showed a net monthly income of 
around £1,731, but this included overtime pay of around £571. The June 2021 payslip 
showed a net monthly income of around £2,068 but this included a larger amount for 
overtime. Mr As basic gross monthly income was £1,768.03. Bamboos open banking data showed Mr As wage credits since August 2019 and it said these supported Mr As 
disposable income. But I didnt think that was correct as there were 13 monthly income 
entries which were less than Mr As declared monthly income. The monthly income amounts 
ranged from around £2,330 to £1,203. Before the pandemic, the lowest monthly amount was 
around £1,655, and the most recent payslip for July 2021 that Bamboo had seen showed an 
amount somewhat lower than Mr As declared income. In the circumstances, I didnt think it 
would have been appropriate here for Bamboo to have used a net monthly income of more 
than £1,731 in its affordability calculations.
Mr A told Bamboo that he was on a rota to work for two weekends a month as part of his 
contract.  Id asked the investigator to ask Mr A for more information about this. He said that 
overtime was 
clearly never guaranteed and could be withdrawn when you are not required as its on a as 
needed basis. This had happened to me on several occasions.
I could see that Bamboo ought to have been aware that Mr As overtime was variable from 
the income amounts in the open banking data. It could have asked Mr A if there were times 
when he didnt receive overtime, but I didnt hear in the call that it had done so. In these 
circumstances, I thought it ought to have appreciated that a month without overtime, or even 
with reduced overtime, would make it difficult for Mr A to meet his repayments. 
Id also reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr A had          
17 active accounts and hed opened one new account in the six months prior to the loan 
application. The total credit balance outstanding was around £18,000. I could also see that 
Mr A had made six minimum payments and withdrawn £110 cash in the last 12 months 
which might have indicated that his finances were strained during that period. Mr A had 
around eight active credit card accounts with the most recent account opened just two 
months prior to the loan application. He also had three active mail order accounts and two 
active loan accounts. Three of the credit cards were approaching their respective credit 
limits. I thought the credit checks suggested that Mr A was reliant on credit. 
Bamboo would also have been aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr As credit commitments (and the open banking data it saw was likely to have 
suggested that this was the case). A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers 
credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not necessarily 
be up to date. Also, not all lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies.
When Mr A spoke to Bamboo, he told it he was going to clear all his credit card accounts 
and two loan balances with its loan. But Bamboo would have been aware from its credit 
checks that this wouldnt have been possible. Mr As credit card balances alone totalled 
around £1,400 more than Bamboos loan advance. I thought it ought to have queried this 
with him as he appeared to be assessing the loan to be affordable based on this inaccurate 
assumption.
Id calculated Mr As monthly credit commitments before the loan using the figures from 
Bamboos credit checks as around £730 using 3% of the credit card and mail order 
balances, and the two loan repayment amounts. If Mr A used Bamboos loan to repay his 
two outstanding loans (a total balance of £5,145) and the balance to repay part of his credit 
card balances, Id calculated his remaining monthly credit commitments together with 
Bamboos loan repayment to be around £600. If Mr A used Bamboos loan to repay part of 
his credit card balance (a total balance of £10,411), Id calculated his remaining monthly 
credit commitments together with Bamboos loan repayment to be around £786. If Mr A took 
the former approach, he appeared to be spending around £130 less each month on credit. 
But this calculation was also based on Mr A only making minimum repayments on his credit card and mail order accounts which effectively extends the debts potentially for years and 
adds very significantly to the cost of the credit. Repayments at that level are insufficient to 
make any meaningful inroads into those balances. So, I thought there was a real risk of Mr A 
not being able to make the loan repayments in these circumstances. 
In addition, whilst Mr A had told Bamboo that he would be using the loan proceeds to 
consolidate some of his debts, I couldnt see from the information received from Bamboo 
that it had made this a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the debts would be 
paid off. And Mr A would still have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay 
even if he did repay some of his debts with the loan proceeds. 
I could also see that even if Mr A had used all the proceeds of the loan for debt 
consolidation, his total indebtedness was still increasing. He said he was using a loan of 
£9,000 to repay debt, but he would need around £15,632 to repay the loan.  So, it appears 
that Mr As total indebtedness was being increased as well as the time hed be indebted for.
Id noted that Bamboo had said that Mr A had sufficient disposable income to make the loan 
sustainably affordable for him. But this assumed Mr As need for credit wasnt an ongoing 
one. Id noted from the bank statements Id seen that Mr A had other high cost credit which 
wasnt shown in Bamboos credit checks. In June 2021, he was repaying another high cost 
loan and had taken out a payday loan. In July 2021, hed taken out another high cost loan for 
around £742. I thought Mr As apparent reliance on high cost credit to meet his existing 
spending showed that this wasnt a reasonable assumption. It seemed to me there was a 
risk here that Mr A would need to borrow to meet his repayments on this loan, as he was 
currently doing so for his existing spending.
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr As 
expenditure without verifying it. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr As expenses. But I didnt think it 
was reasonable for Bamboo to think that Mr As circumstances fell within this average 
portfolio. Bamboos affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr A and I thought it should 
have been in his circumstances.
Id noted that Bamboo also saw information about Mr As banking transactions. It had said in 
its final response letter that from its review of this information, it was able to gain comfort that 
the level of Mr As income and expenditure was sufficient to manage the proposed loan 
repayments. Bamboo hadnt provided this Service with the banking information it saw except 
for information about Mr As income.
Id asked the investigator to ask Mr A for his bank statements from around the time of the 
loan from his two main current accounts so that I could see what Bamboo had seen. Id 
reviewed these bank statements for June 2021 and  most of July 2021. Taking Mr As 
income as £1,731 as shown in his July 2021 payslip and all of Mr As existing (and ongoing) 
financial commitments (less £130 for the debts which were likely to be consolidated as Id 
explained above) and reasonably identifiable spend on rent, council tax, water, utilities, food 
and household, medical, phone, TV/internet package, and petrol didnt leave Mr A with 
sufficient disposable income to repay Bamboos loan. Overall, I thought it was clear from the 
bank transactions which Bamboo said it had seen that Mr As financial commitments and 
regular living costs were higher than the amount Bamboo had calculated.
Overall, I didnt think Bamboo had properly scrutinised the information it did see to ensure 
that Mr A would have enough funds to be able to make the payments over 48 months 
without them having a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. Bamboo didnt 
seem to have used the open banking information it had to verify its estimate of Mr As expenditure. And, had Bamboo considered fully the information it had received, I thought it 
would have learned that the loan wasnt likely to have been affordable for him and so I 
considered it was irresponsible to have agreed it. 
So, I intended to say that Bamboo had made an unfair lending decision and that Mr As 
complaint should be upheld. 
Id noted that Mr A had asked for the loan amount to be written off. Id carefully thought 
about what amounted to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a business has 
done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is reasonably 
practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that wrong hadnt 
taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Bamboo putting Mr A in the position 
hed now be in if he hadnt been given the loan.
 
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr A 
was given the loan in question and hed used the funds. So, in these circumstances, I 
couldnt undo what had already been done. And it was simply not possible to put Mr A back 
in the position he would have been in if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
As this was the case, Id had to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair 
and reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. 
As Id explained, Bamboo ought to have realised that it was providing Mr A with a loan that 
hed more likely than not be unable to repay without adverse consequences. And in reality, it 
was the interest that Mr A had to pay Bamboo that was the problem, as he would have kept 
having to find additional funds (usually through borrowing elsewhere) to pay the interest on his 
loan. So, I said that Bamboo should refund all the interest on the loan that Mr A had paid it, as 
well as any fees and charges hed paid, and overall, Mr A shouldnt have to pay Bamboo any 
amounts over and above the capital borrowed of £9,000.
With regard to Mr As credit file, generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any 
adverse information recorded on a consumers credit file as a result of the loans they 
shouldnt have been given. I saw no reason to depart from our typical approach in this case. 
So, I thought that Bamboo should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit 
file in relation to the loan. 
So, I said that I intended to uphold this complaint and that it would be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Mr As complaint for Bamboo to put things right in the following 
way:-
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr A back into the position 
he would have been had the loan not been agreed for him, Bamboo needs to ensure that   
Mr A only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mr A shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount of £9,000 he borrowed. So, Bamboo needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr A has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) if Mr A has made payments above the capital amount of £9,000, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if Mr A hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £9,000 and there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then Bamboo needs to treat Mr A fairly and sympathetically in 
this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; andd) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr As credit file.
If Bamboo has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If Bamboo isnt able to buy the 
debt back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about 
steps a) to d) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr A didnt provide any further information in response to my provisional decision.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it didnt believe that adding any 
additional points would change the outcome for this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr A and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting 
things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to take the steps set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman