DRN-3178685
Complaint
Ms W says that TSB Bank plc (TSB) treated her unfairly when she ran into difficulty 
repaying her overdraft.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 16 November 2021
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ws concerns. She didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
I issued a provisional decision  on 16 November 2021 - setting out why I intended to 
partially uphold Ms Ws complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide 
a summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that it wasnt in dispute that Ms W got in contact with TSB when she 
was having difficulty clearing her overdraft balance. And once a lender is told that a borrower 
is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen 
to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most 
appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of its conversations with Ms W, TSB agreed to temporarily freeze the interest on 
the account and agreed to accept payments of £20 a month. This would have led to Ms W 
clearing the balance within six months. I was satisfied this represented a reasonable first 
step to Ms Ws contact in December 2018 and it provided an appropriate way forward at this 
stage.
 
As I understood it, Ms W made her December 2018 and January 2019 payments. But, for 
whatever reason, she didnt make her February 2019 payment. As a result of this, TSB 
considered that Ms W had broken the terms of her arrangement and started adding 
unarranged overdraft charges to Ms Ws balance. This meant that even though Ms W 
resumed payments of £20 in March 2019 her balance was now increasing rather than 
decreasing. 
In July 2019, TSB decided to begin corrective action in relation to the overdraft and withdrew 
it. Given Ms W had proved unable or unwilling to repay the outstanding balance, I didnt think 
it was unreasonable for TSB to have taken corrective action in relation to the overdraft. After 
all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, might be 
viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in relation 
to the overdraft debt. And I didnt think it was fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue 
ignoring Ms Ws obvious and apparent inability or unwillingness to clear this debt indefinitely. 
That said, while I thought it was fair and reasonable to take action in relation to the 
outstanding debt, I did think that TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have taken such action 
when Ms W broke her repayment plan in February 2019. At this stage, Ms W had broken the 
terms of her agreement and TSB could and should have taken action at this point. I didnt 
think that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to add significant amounts of further unarranged 
overdraft charges and quadrupling what Ms W owed before, in any event, taking this action. 
TSBs actions here resulted in Ms W defaulting on a much larger debt. And the vast majority 
of this much larger debt was made up of interest, fees and charges. 
So I thought that TSB acted unfairly towards Ms W when it started applying unarranged 
overdraft charges to her account, in circumstances where it instead ought to have taken 
steps to impose a corrective solution on her facility. Ms W ended up paying additional 
interest, fees and charges because of TSBs delay in taking action. So I set out that I 
intended to issue a final decision which found that Ms W lost out because of what TSB did 
wrong and that it needed to put things right.
TSBs response to my provisional decision
TSB responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
Ms W wasnt in financial difficulty;
Ms W had the funds to repay the balance when she broke the terms of her 
repayment arrangement and instead chose to spend them making retail purchases;
Once the plan broke, it sent Ms W a letter letting her know that it would start charging 
interest if she didnt make payment within 10 days. As payment wasnt made it 
started charging as per the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms Ws response to my provisional decision  
Ms W responded querying how her credit file would be amended and whether the default 
would be removed.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
I have to start by expressing just how disappointed I am with TSBs response to my 
provisional decision. Its response is so wide of the mark, I have to query whether it even 
read my decision.
To explain, my provisional decision didnt make the finding that Ms W was in financial 
difficulty. So I dont see how TSBs comments regarding Ms Ws spending to be completely 
irrelevant. I also find them particularly insensitive given Ms Ws overall circumstances. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I want to make it clear that my provisional decision said TSB acted 
unfairly and unreasonably towards Ms W because it failed to default her overdraft when it 
was appropriate to do so, quadrupled the amount Ms W owed by adding a substantial 
interest, fees and charges and then defaulted the account anyway. 
Given TSB hasnt addressed these arguments or the fairness of its actions in composing 
such a debt, Ive not been persuaded by its further arguments.
I now turn to Ms Ws comments in relation to her credit file. My provisional decision found 
that TSB ought to have started taking corrective steps in relation to Ms Ws overdraft when 
she broke the arrangement to repay what she owed. Ive thought about the argument that 
Ms W might have repaid the overdraft had a formal demand notice been sent at this stage. But given Ms W didnt respond to the letter giving her 10 days to bring her account up to 
date or the final demand that was eventually sent, Im not persuaded that it is more likely 
than not Ms W would have prevented the account from defaulting in and around February 
2019. As this is the case, Im satisfied that the account was more likely than not going to 
default around this time and Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. 
Overall and having carefully considered the further points made in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still partially 
upholding Ms Ws complaint and TSB needs to put things right.   
  
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Ms W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ws complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ws account balance, at the time it closed, so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from February 2019 onwards are removed.
I understand that Ms W has since cleared her balance with TSB. So the extra she 
paid, over and above what the reworked closing balance now shows, should be 
treated as overpayments and returned to Ms W along with 8% simple interest on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. 
The default TSB applied to Ms Ws credit file should be amended to reflect what 
would have been recorded had TSB started the process of taking corrective 
action on the account in February 2019.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give    
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 16 November 2021, 
Im upholding Ms Ws complaint. TSB Bank plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman