DRN-3321559
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has refused to carry out a chargeback for 
money he lost when he fell victim to as scam. He also believes Nationwide ought to have 
done more to prevent the transactions from being carried out in the first place.
What happened
In 2018 Mr B was researching investment companies. He was called by an agent of an 
investment business which trades in Contracts for Difference (CFDs)  a high-risk 
investment area. For the purposes of this decision Ill refer to the business as B. Mr B 
was impressed with what he was told and so decided to invest.
Mr B made a number of transactions, from £50 to £400, between October 2018 and 
April 2019 totalling £4,200. There was also money credited to Mr Bs account by B of 
£681.25 in total.
In May 2019, Mr B raised a chargeback claim with Nationwide as he believed he had 
been scammed. Nationwide declined to raise a chargeback as it said it couldnt assist 
where the transaction had been processed correctly. So Mr B asked us to get involved. 
As Mr B hadnt complained about the chargeback, Nationwide was given an opportunity 
to consider the complaint and it stood by its decision.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he was satisfied the information provided by Mr 
B and other information in the public domain suggested he had been the victim of a scam 
and so Nationwide ought to have raised a chargeback. He asked Nationwide to make a 
full refund of the transactions in dispute and for it to add 8% simple interest to that sum.
Nationwide disagreed it had done anything wrong and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
The matter was referred to me, and I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2022, 
explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I said:
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers  in this case Visa  
whereby Visa will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a merchant and a customer 
if it cannot be resolved between them. There are rules to the scheme  set by Visa  
which means there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be 
accepted for a chargeback to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Our role 
isnt to second-guess Visas decisions or rules, but to determine whether Nationwide, as 
the card issuer, acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very 
narrow. Reason Code 13.5 (previously 53) allows claims for misrepresentation for 
investments where the merchant refuses to allow the cardholder to withdraw available 
balances. But Visa required very specific evidence - a copy of the cardholders 
investment account showing the date, the withdrawal amount and the available balance, 
at the time the withdrawal request was made.
I have considered carefully all of the information provided by Mr B. I can see that he was 
able to make some withdrawals. However, I do accept he has provided some screen 
shots to show that a withdrawal request has been declined, on more than one occasion. 
I also accept those declines are dated. However, they do not show what amount Mr B 
was trying to withdraw, or that he had an available balance for withdrawal at the time. 
Im also aware that Mr B continued to invest following those withdrawal requests, and he 
subsequently lost most, if not all, of his investment. And it was after this that he made 
his chargeback claim.
Im afraid without evidence of the amount Mr B was trying to withdraw, or that he had an 
available balance on those days, for withdrawal, the evidence doesnt meet the 
requirements Visa has stipulated. As such if Nationwide had raised a chargeback claim 
on his behalf, it wouldnt have been considered valid. Although it didnt provide a very 
meaningful explanation to Mr B as to why, Im not persuaded Nationwide was acting 
unfairly or unreasonably when declining to raise a chargeback that had no reasonable 
prospect of success.
I would also add here, that had Mr B been able to provide the evidence Visa require, 
he wouldnt have been entitled to all of the transactions he had made  only to the 
withdrawal amount, or the available balance at the time of making the withdrawal 
request.
Mr B also argues that Nationwide ought to reimburse the lost funds as he believes it 
should have checked regulation information before allowing the transactions; and that it 
had a responsibility to check for warnings signs, such as the absence of regulatory 
information. Ive therefore considered whether Nationwide ought to have intervened 
before allowing the transactions to proceed.
Banks, building societies and other payment services providers do have a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering. But when executing
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad 
bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice. 
So the first question I need to ask myself when determining whether Nationwide ought 
to have done more before allowing the transactions, is whether this merchant was a 
fraudster?
Not all complaints referred to us involving CFDs or forex trading is in fact a scam. 
Some complaints simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses, oft times substantial or total losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have used sales channels or methods, or 
have terms and conditions, that can be seen to be unfair by customers considering 
the losses they have incurred  but that doesnt always amount to fraud or mean 
they have been scammed.
When considering Mr Bs case, Ive paid particularly attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. 
Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's 
securities regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, 
which is in place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
Whilst there is information about B held with both organisations, none of it indicates B 
is operating as a scam. Rather the information held by IOSCO, which dates from 
November 2021  over two years after the transactions in dispute  simply refers to B 
not being registered to trade in a particular province. And the FCA acted in August 
2021 to stop B offering high-risk CFDs to UK investors as it had serious concerns 
about its sales and marketing practices. So far from being a scam, this was/is a 
legitimate business, albeit not operating in a way that the FCA approved of. Im also 
aware from my own research, and from information that Mr B provided, that B is 
actually regulated in another jurisdiction, and continues to be so. Illegitimate or illegal 
firms set up with the intention of scamming customers are highly unlikely to submit 
themselves to regulatory oversight. Im therefore satisfied theres strong evidence B 
isnt fraudulent or operating a scam.
As Im minded to find the payments Mr B made to B werent fraudulent, the duty to 
intervene wasnt triggered, as Mr B wasnt at risk of financial loss due to fraud. And as 
Ive explained, banks, building societies and other payment services providers arent 
required to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to poor investment 
advice or choices, or bad bargains. I would also add, for the sake of completeness, that 
there was, and is, no duty on a payment services provider like Nationwide to check the 
regulatory status of a merchant before completing a transaction.
I appreciate that Mr B will likely be disappointed that I am minded to overturn the 
investigators findings, not least because it had been upheld. I am, of course, happy to 
consider any new evidence or information that Mr B may wish to provide.
Nationwide hasnt responded and so I have assumed it has nothing further to add. Mr B 
doesnt believe the outcome I have reached is fair. He says he has been the victim of a 
scam and there are many places on the internet showing what B is doing now it has been 
found out and that its scamming people. Mr B has also provided some screen shots of his 
trading account and says B is still holding about £1,000 of his money, but he cant log into 
his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Mr Bs points in response to my provisional decision and I 
understand why he feels the outcome is unfair given the losses he has incurred. However, 
Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional findings. 
I remain satisfied B was and is a legitimate company, albeit many people feel they have 
been scammed because they have lost money. Indeed B was, at least part of it, regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. And it continues to be regulated in another jurisdiction. I 
therefore remain satisfied there is strong evidence that B wasnt fraudulent or operating a 
scam. 
I accept Mr B may have lost money. But Im afraid that often happens with investing into 
high-risk areas such as CFDs, where the losses incurred can be substantial, if not total.   
Nothing Mr B has said and provided has caused me to change my view that the payments 
made to B werent fraudulent, and so there was no duty on Nationwide to intervene. And 
there was and is no requirement on Nationwide, or other payment services provider, to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to poor investment advice or choices, or 
bad bargains. It follows that I find no basis on which to ask Nationwide to reimburse Mr B. 
Mr B has also provided some screen shots, but these dont meet the requirements of VISA 
for a chargeback; whilst a balance is shown, it isnt clear this is available for withdrawal and 
it isnt accompanied by a same dated withdrawal request. In any event, Visa has set strict 
time-limits for raising a chargeback and Mr B is now well outside of those by a least a couple 
of years.   
Im sorry to hear Mr B still has £1,000 on account with B that he cant access. That isnt 
something we can help with. If he hasnt already done so, Mr B could try raising it with Bs 
regulatory body, information about which he already has.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman