DRN-3310876
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr D has explained that his mobile phone was downloading an update and believes this was 
the explanation for how a large payment was able to be taken from his bank account. Mr D 
said his phone started to update itself and whilst it was carrying out the update, the disputed 
transaction occurred. Mr D didnt notice until the next morning when he used a different 
phone to check his online banking because his original phone wasnt working. Mr D notified 
Santander about it and they looked into what had happened.
Santander explained to Mr D that the records showed it was his own mobile phone with his 
login details and password that was used to make the payment. Mr D was asked if he gave 
access to his phone to anyone else or downloaded any software. Mr D confirmed he hadnt 
done this. Mr D confirmed he hadnt written his password down although Santander notes 
record that at one point he told the call handler that he had recorded them on his phone. In 
later conversations with the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr D said he only recorded his 
banking security details in a diary that was locked away securely at home.
Santander advised Mr D to get his phone checked, which he did. Mr D took his phone to a 
shop who charged Mr D £10 for fixing it but didnt explain what was wrong with it. Mr D told 
Santander that on the evening of the problem with his phone, the update started around 
8:00pm. Santander confirmed the payment was started sometime before that and then finally 
completed after this point. Santander declined to refund Mr D because the evidence showed 
his own phone and banking details were used to make the payment and there was no 
evidence of a hack or other interference by third parties.
Mr D remained unhappy and complained to Santander who revisited the situation but didnt 
change their position. Mr D then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an 
independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was 
reasonable for Santander to hold Mr D liable for the transaction.
Mr D disagreed with the outcome and explained that hed been trying to unlock his phone 
with his fingerprint when the update was loading, and this may be how the fraudsters were 
able to access his phone. Our investigator told Mr D that his five-figure passcode was used 
to confirm the payment and there was no explanation how this could have been found out by 
a fraudster.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mr D liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Santander have supplied evidence 
that shows the payment was set up via Mr Ds online banking login and confirmed with his 
passcode. Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Santander and Mr D agreed to operate the account to 
allow Santander to make payments on Mr Ds behalf. For example, Santanders terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the 
account holder uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Santander accept 
that the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because 
Mr Ds registered phone using his login credentials was used to open the mobile app and the 
payment was confirmed with Mr Ds five figure passcode - Im satisfied that consent was 
given and the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for Santander to hold Mr D responsible, for example if the mobile 
app was used without his permission.
Mr D has speculated that an unidentified update on his phone was responsible for the 
transaction that left his account. He told Santander of the approximate time this started 
which was about 8:00 pm. Santander advised that part of the payment was started before 
this time but finished sometime later whilst the update was still happening on Mr Ds phone.
Mr D provided multiple screenshots of the update, but unfortunately theres no date on the 
screen and the earliest time stamp is 21:31(9:31 pm). Mr D has explained that this update 
was responsible, but theres no evidence to support that. I accept that third parties can gain 
access to devices, usually through the user accepting some form of software or allowing 
control of their phone. In this case Mr D confirmed that neither of things happened. Its 
possible that some form of technical hack was carried out on Mr Ds phone, but this still 
leaves the issue of how Mr Ds personal security credentials were used to make the 
payment. 
Santander recorded notes that Mr D told them his details were in the phone, but he then said 
they werent. Mr D confirmed to our investigator that they were only written down in a diary at 
home which was kept secure. So, I dont think theres a plausible explanation that 
demonstrated how Mr Ds details became known to a fraudster. What is evident is that Mr 
Ds registered mobile phone was used together with his personal login details to set up the 
payment. This was then verified with his five-digit passcode. 
I appreciate Mr D believes this update was responsible for the payment leaving his account 
and that his attempts to open the phone using his fingerprint might have somehow enabled 
the funds to be taken. Ive considered if this was somehow responsible for the disputed 
payment, but I dont think it is. The payment couldnt be set up and verified without Mr Ds  
personal security information - which wasnt available to anyone other than Mr D.
Ive also considered if anyone else could have carried out these transactions using Mr Ds 
phone. His personal circumstances would seem to rule out this possibility. Mr D confirmed 
no one at his home address had access to the phone and there wasnt anyone else who was 
able to access it at the time of the disputed transaction.
Whilst Im sure Mr D will disagree with me; I think its more likely than not that Mr D was 
responsible for authorising this transaction and that it was reasonable for Santander to hold 
him responsible and I wont be upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman