DRN-3808551
The complaint
Ms W says Affinity Insurance Solutions Limited (AISL) unfairly asked her to pay a monthly 
direct debit for her car insurance policy in July 2022.
What happened
Ms Ws annual policy was renewed from July 2021 and AISL collected the first monthly 
direct debit in August 2021. AISL wrote to Ms W in June 2022 to confirm its decision not to 
offer to renew the policy for 2022 to 2023. It wrote to her again in July 2022 stating it hadnt 
been able to collect the final direct debit of £62.59 for that month and asking her to pay it. 
Unhappy at being asked to pay the direct debit, Ms W complained to AISL. It became 
apparent that AISL had collected the first direct debit in August 2021 when ordinarily it would 
have done so in July. That meant the 12th and final direct debit was due in July 2022 instead 
of June. AISL apologised for the direct debits being scheduled as they were, but confirmed 
she owed the final payment. As compensation for the error, AISL agreed to deduct £25 from 
the amount owing, leaving Ms W £37.59 to pay.
Dissatisfied with AISLs response, Ms W brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
felt that, although AISL had made an error, it was entitled to ask her to pay the final 
premium. 
As Ms W didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. In summary, Ms W said it had been open for AISL to collect the first direct 
debit in July 2021 and that it chose instead to do so the following month  without telling her 
until 2022. Ms W felt it was unfair if her credit file was impacted by this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that AISL didnt collect the first direct debit for the relevant policy year until 
August 2021 when, typically, it says it would have done so in July. AISLs apologised for the 
error and deducted £25 from the amount owing as compensation.
That said, Ive reviewed the renewal papers Ms W was sent in July 2021. The direct debit 
confirmation enclosed with them included a section headed Payment Schedule. This 
confirmed when each direct debit would be collected  including the first in August 2021 and 
the final one in July 2022. 
The pre-contract information also enclosed included that the total amount payable must be 
repaid in 12 fixed instalments over a 12 month period.
So, I dont agree with Ms W when she suggests she didnt know about the timing of the 
payments until 2022. I believe it was made clear to her in July 2021 how much she owed in 
total, how much would be collected each month and when the amounts would be collected. 
Its possible Ms Ws forgotten about being told this.
I realise that Ms W was surprised on learning that her direct debits started a month later than 
would ordinarily be the case. I appreciate she wasnt at fault for the scheduling. But the 
schedule was made clear to her from the outset. Ultimately, she agreed for AISL to collect 
12 monthly direct debits with the last being collected in July 2022, and thats what AISLs 
sought to do. In return, shes had the benefit of the cover provided notwithstanding whether 
any claims were paid. If shes lost out because of the administrative error, I believe AISLs 
offer to deduct £25 from whats owed to be sufficient compensation.  
Overall, I dont consider that AISLs treated Ms W unfairly in response to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman