DRN-2223689
The complaint
Mr D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly refused 
to pay his shortfall in legal costs under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D made a claim on his policy for the legal costs of pursuing action against his former 
employers. DAS accepted the claim and cover was put in place for Mr Ds chosen solicitors 
to represent him. The hourly rates agreed were £217 plus VAT for a partner and £161 plus 
VAT for an associate.
The dispute was settled with Mr Ds employer without the need for a hearing. And as part of 
the agreed settlement, Mr D recovered £120,000 towards his legal fees.
Mr Ds solicitors submitted their final accounts to DAS which amounted to £148,951.20. So 
Mr D has asked DAS to meet the shortfall of £28,958.21. But DAS has refused. It says the 
solicitors have charged hourly rates ranging between £650 and £195 plus VAT, which are 
higher than whats been agreed under the policy.
DAS says that applying the agreed hourly rates, the solicitors total costs amount to 
£77,350.92. As Mr D has recovered costs in excess of this amount, it doesnt agree that it 
needs to pay anything further under the policy.
As Mr D didnt agree, he brought a complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold 
it. She said DAS had given Mr D the option to use a panel solicitor who would have charged 
£100 per hour but Mr D declined. Instead, it was agreed that hed use a solicitor of his own 
choice and whilst their hourly rate was higher than the policy provided for, Mr D was happy 
to cover the shortfall, with DAS making a contribution in line with the rates set out above.
The investigator said the policy was clear that Mr D was expected to recover his costs if 
possible and if he did, these would be recovered by the policy in the first instance. Mr Ds 
policy has a limit of indemnity of £100,000. As he recovered £120,000, the investigator said 
Mr D couldnt claim anything from the policy.
Mr D didnt agree. He says if hed used a panel solicitor, he wouldnt have sought costs from 
the other side and would instead have been given a higher settlement, so DAS would have 
paid out over £77,000. But he only requires them to pay the shortfall of £28,958.21. So he 
thinks its fair that DAS pays it.
The complaint was passed to me to consider and I issued a provisional decision. I thought 
the complaint should be upheld and DAS should assess the balance of Mr Ds costs and pay 
them, in line with the remaining policy terms, for the following reasons:
Like most legal expenses insurance policies, Mr Ds policy says there is only cover for a 
panel solicitors fees up to the point where its necessary to issue court proceedings. Mr D 
opted to use a solicitor of his own choice. And at the point of issuing proceedings, he sought 
cover under the policy.
The policy says if Mr D chooses his own solicitors, rather than DAS panel solicitors, DAS 
will give his solicitors the opportunity to act on the same terms as a panel firm. If they refuse 
to act on this basis, the most DAS will normally pay is the amount it would have paid in 
accordance with the standard terms of appointment.
DAS standard terms of appointment include an hourly rate of £100 plus VAT. But there is 
some discretion and in this case fees were agreed at £217 and £161 per hour for the 
respective solicitors working on the case. Mr D was aware of the rates agreed and 
understood hed be required to pay any shortfall if his solicitors charged him rates above 
what had been agreed.
On that basis, Mr D was entitled to claim any costs at these agreed rates. DAS says that 
calculating his costs at this rate would give a total amount payable of around £77,000 and, 
as he recovered more than that from the other side, it doesnt need to pay anything. But I 
dont think thats the right way to approach this.
The policy covers Mr D for all reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the appointed 
representative and agreed by us in accordance with the DAS standard terms of 
appointment.
The policy terms also say
if you are not able to recover your Costs and Expenses from the other side, then at our 
discretion we will consider paying your Costs at an hourly rate of £100 plus VAT and 
Expenses 
Mr D must take every step to recover costs and expenses that we have to pay
Looking at the policy terms in the round, and based on the terms of appointment agreed with 
his solicitors, Mr D has cover for costs up to £100,000 at the hourly rates agreed with the 
solicitors. So hes entitled to claim costs up to that limit. But he had a duty to try and recover 
costs from the other side, and any costs recovered will be set off against his claim. Thats 
standard practice. The purpose of this type of policy is to cover Mr D for any costs he doesnt 
recover from the other side. So any costs recovered will be deducted from his indemnity limit 
and he can claim the balance.
If, for example, his total costs were £60,000 and he recovered £40,000 from the other side, 
he could claim for the balance of £20,000. In this case, Mr D recovered £120,000 but that 
wasnt enough to cover all his costs; theres a shortfall of £28,958.21. The same principle 
applies here - hes entitled to claim those costs. It wouldnt be fair if hes paid nothing 
because he reduced DAS liability by recovering costs from the other side  particularly 
where the settlement was agreed with DAS approval.
That doesnt necessarily mean DAS has to pay these costs in full. Its entitled to assess the 
costs to see whats reasonable, and pay them in line with the agreed rates.
Mr D accepts the provisional decision but DAS does not. It says it would be unfair for it to 
pay any costs, because:
this would reapportion the settlement Mr D achieved to make it more favourable for 
him;
the example I gave in the provisional decision over-simplifies things; if it assessed 
the costs and the total was over the amount recovered, then it would make a 
contribution, but if the reasonable costs are less than those recovered from the other 
side it should pay nothing;in this case, it deemed the reasonable and necessary costs to be around £77,000 so 
this is all it would have contributed if Mr D hadnt recovered any costs  but he did 
recover costs and once the reasonable and necessary costs (ie DAS share) are 
taken from the settlement, its liability is concluded;
asking DAS to assess unrecovered costs effectively alters the terms it agreed with 
the solicitors and adjusts its liability from costs as a whole to simply unrecovered 
costs, and 
settling costs in this way this would amount to betterment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision in this case boils down to the fair way to approach assessing costs, when the 
policyholder has recovered some but not all of their costs from the other side. 
My provisional view was that Mr D is entitled to claim costs up to his indemnity limit. 
Although he recovered most of his costs from the other side, he didnt recover all of them. As 
theres a balance outstanding, its fair that he can claim those. DAS says that isnt fair, 
because it has already assessed his costs and deemed a fair payment to be around 
£77,000. And since he recovered more than that, DAS considers it shouldnt have to pay 
anything. 
I appreciate the point DAS is making but as I said in the provisional decision, I dont think 
thats the fair way to approach this. Mr D has taken out an insurance policy which covers him 
for his legal costs, up to £100,000. As is standard practice, hes required to do what he can 
to keep the costs DAS has to pay to a minimum. By recovering costs form the other side as 
part of the settlement, hes done that. But following DAS approach would leave him out of 
pocket. In my judgment, that wouldnt be fair. It effectively leaves him with no benefit from his 
insurance policy.
A policyholder would generally expect that, subject to anything recovered from the other 
side, the policy will cover their costs  that is the point of having the cover. And the policy 
itself says that if theyre not able to recover their costs from the other side, then at its
discretion DAS will consider paying the costs. Id expect DAS to exercise that discretion 
reasonably. And I think a policyholder would generally expect their costs to be paid since, as 
Ive said, thats the whole point of the policy.
I dont agree that requiring DAS to pay some of the shortfall is altering the terms of the 
contract it agreed with Mr Ds solicitors. In any event, my main concern is with the contract 
DAS agreed with Mr D. And that provides him with cover for his legal costs, subject to his 
duty to keep those costs to a minimum and recover them from the other side. In my view, 
hes kept to his side of that bargain and so its fair that DAS should pay his outstanding 
costs. I dont think paying these costs would amount to betterment  rather than leaving him 
better off, it prevents him being out of pocket, and provides the benefit he was expecting, 
which is to be able to claim his costs (other than those recovered from the other side). 
In my view, if DAS intended the policy to operate in the way it says, this should have been 
made clear. Mr D would then have known, when taking out the policy, that if he recovered 
costs in the way he has here, he wouldnt be able to claim anything at all on the policy and 
could have taken steps to mitigate that.
For these reasons, Mr D can claim the balance of his costs. The remaining policy terms do 
apply though. He can claim the balance of around £28,000 but DAS may assess those costs and pay the proportion of that amount assessed to be reasonable, in line with the agreed 
rates.
Putting things right
To put things right, DAS should assess Mr Ds claim for the balance of his costs and pay 
them in line with the remaining policy terms and the rates agreed with his solicitors.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to assess Mr Ds costs as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman