DRN-4127146
The complaint
Mr R complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) who declined his claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R contacted Admiral to make a claim following a leak at his home, that was as a result of 
storm damage. Around a week later a contractor was sent to assist with the emergency but 
the appointment was cancelled around 30 mins before he was due to attend. The reason for 
the cancellation, was because only one contractor was attending, when the job required two. 
The appointment was rescheduled for two days later. Mr R said that the contractor attended 
by himself, which he thought contradicted the reason given for the cancellation of the 
previous appointment. The contractor attended and Mr R said he carried out a cursory 
inspection of the damage, before leaving. Mr R contacted Admiral for an update, as he was 
promised one, but didnt get one. 
Mr R eventually contacted Admiral, who in turn attempted to contact the contractor, which 
proved unsuccessful. So, Mr R raised a complaint. What then followed was what Mr R 
describes as poor service from Admiral. This related to Admiral closing the claim, due to the 
repair requiring scaffolding, which Mr R disputed. 
As Mr R felt that Admiral failed to carry out a thorough enough investigation and he had to 
pay for an independent contractor to carry out the repairs, at a cost of £270, he further 
complained. 
In its final response, Admiral apologised for the poor standard of service. It said that its 
contractor was to blame and referred Mr R back to its contractor. Mr R was given his referral 
rights and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that Admiral had accepted that Mr R experienced poor service and as the contractor acted 
on behalf of Admiral, then Admiral were responsible for the claim. 
In addition, as Admiral had mentioned that Mr R had to have made a claim within 48 hours of 
discovering it. His view was that he had done so. Consequently, he recommended that 
Admiral reimburse Mr Rs independent contractor, pay £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Mr R didnt accept the view. He said given all of the distress that he had experienced which 
he estimated took him around 30 hours to sort out with Admiral, he wanted a far greater 
amount of compensation than the £100 recommended by our investigator. So, he asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reason as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment for Mr R. But Ill explain why 
I think the decision Ive reached is fair. 
I understand that Mr R is content with our investigators recommendation, of Admiral 
reimbursing him the cost of the independent engineer, that he used to carry out the repairs. 
Which was £270. Admiral havent disputed the view or this recommendation. So, I wont be 
commenting further on this, except to say that this is fair and falls within the confines of the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The policy has a limit of £500 for repairs that 
policyholders have had to independently carry out. As this comes within that limit, Im 
satisfied that Admiral should reimburse Mr R this cost. 
Turning to the issue of the compensation recommended by our investigator. I understand 
that Mr R would like a far greater amount of compensation, than the £100 recommended. He 
said that he spent around 30 hours chasing Admiral for updates, he experienced poor 
service from Admiral, such as the Admiral contractor not carrying out a thorough enough 
investigation. Which led to Mr R paying for and instructing another engineer. 
Admiral accepted that he experienced poor service and apologised for this. Mr Rs home 
insurance policy with the home emergency section, doesnt give him cover for his time  that 
is, its not something hes entitled to claim for under his contract of insurance. And I must 
also say any home emergency is going to involve a homeowner in some inconvenience 
including, almost inevitably, using their time for an engineer to come in and put things right. 
When we consider what is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, we take into 
account the impact of the business error on the policyholder. I accept that the error required 
a reasonable amount of effort for Mr R to sort out. That the error caused distress and 
inconvenience for a few days. Consequently, Im satisfied that the level of compensation of 
£100, is fair and comes within our guidelines. 
I understand that Mr R would like more, given the time he spent in sorting out the claim. But 
we wouldnt compensate policyholders for their time. Whilst I can appreciate that this isnt 
what Mr R wouldve liked, I think that this is a fair and reasonable outcome. So, I wont be 
asking Admiral to increase the recommended amount of compensation.
Putting things right
To put matters rights, I direct Admiral as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reimburse Mr R £270, on production of an invoice 
from Mr R.Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr R £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay the above amounts within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Mr R has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited should pay 8% simple interest on the amounts from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman