DRN-2541321
The complaint
Mrs M complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a store card.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs M took out a store card in store in October 2002. In June 2003 she took out a PPI policy 
over the telephone to protect her repayments on the account.
Mrs M complained to AXA that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree to uphold her 
complaint. AXA also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged on the premiums but said that the credit ended before April 2008 therefore this 
account wasnt caught by the rules relating to unfair relationships and excess commission.
Mrs M wasnt happy with what AXA had said so brought her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. 
Lloyds has responded to that decision, indicating it had no further comments or additional 
information to provide in response to my findings.
Mrs M, who is represented, also responded and raised a question about the date the 
account ended but made no other comment. A response was provided to the question and 
any further comments or information was requested from her. No further response has been 
received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on everything I have seen I am not upholding Mrs Ms complaint and I shall explain 
why.
Mrs M was sold the PPI over the telephone, around eight months after she applied for and 
opened the store card account in store. Mrs M now says she didnt need the PPI as she had 
sick pay from her employer and could have relied on family to help if she wasnt working. 
The policy she took out covered accident, sickness, unemployment and provided life cover. 
It also included purchase protection cover. The cost was £1.00 per £100.00 of the monthly 
card account balance, this being indicated on the application form Mrs M completed when 
she opened the store card. And this would have been explained again in the telephone call 
when she discussed and agreed to take out the PPI.
I think Mrs M knew she had a choice whether to take out the PPI. She already had her store 
card account in place so she knew she could have the account without the PPI. And she was 
sold the PPI at a totally separate time over the phone. I also think that Mrs M was eligible for 
the policy as she was working and within the age ranges for the policy. 
Its unclear if Mrs M can accurately recall everything from the time of the sale. This was 
around 17 years ago, and memories do fade. It seems when she took her complaint to AXA 
she said she had worked in her job for over nine years and that she had sick pay of six 
months full pay and six months half pay plus savings, so she didnt need the PPI which was 
expensive.
When Mrs M brought her complaint to this service, she told us that she had been in her job 
for four years and had sick pay of three months full salary and around three months salary 
in savings. She later told us she would have got at least three months sick pay and had no 
savings but would have been able to rely on family to help if she wasnt working.
Mrs M has not been able to provide any supporting evidence from the time but looking at the 
nature of her work its likely she would have received some sick pay. From her most recent 
information I think its unlikely she had any savings.
The application form Mrs M completed for the store card account, just a few months before 
she took out the PPI, states the cost of PPI was £1.00 for every £100 of balance. And it is 
also indicated the policy would have paid 15% of the balance on the account in the event of 
a claim, which is a good level of benefit. This benefit would have been paid for accident, 
sickness or unemployment claims until the end of the period off work, or the balance had 
been repaid, or the end date of the policy. So overall the benefits were very good, and good 
value for the cost.
There is no recoding of the telephone call when the PPI was sold and I cant be sure what 
information AXA provided. But I do think some information, probably more than that on the 
card account application would have been provided.  
But I cant be sure AXA provided full information during the call to enable Mrs M to determine 
whether the policy was suitable for her. However, taking account of what Mrs M has told us 
about her circumstances at the time I think its more likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration: -
Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period of time, as she has told us she had some sick pay, 
but had no other means to make her payments at the time other than relying on 
family support. But family circumstances can also change so the PPI would have 
been of value to Mrs M to enable support to be provided for other living expenses.Ive seen nothing to indicate the monthly cost of the policy wasnt affordable for 
Mrs M. The cost appeared on her statement so if she had any concerns, she could 
have raised this with AXA and cancelled the policy.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs M. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Mrs M has told us she had no pre-existing medical conditions 
so would not have been caught by the exclusions and limitations of the policy should 
she have made a claim for accident or sickness. 
Therefore, Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs M would have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover contained in the terms and conditions. As she wasnt 
caught by any restrictions of the policy, I dont think better information about these relating to 
the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. I think it was suitable for her, and at the 
time, she chose to take it out. 
Taking all the evidence and information into account, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Part of the PPI premiums Mrs M paid was for commission and profit share, so the premium 
wasnt just to cover the insurers cost of underwriting the policy. The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) has put in place rules and guidance that says for some credit taken out 
before or continuing after certain dates, excessive commission and profit share amounts 
over 50% must be refunded with compensatory interest.
However, Mrs Ms credit account ended in October 2006, before the date set by the FCA of 
April 2008, so these rules do not apply. I apologise for the typing error in my provisional 
decision that stated the credit ended in 2010, this was incorrect and should have said 2006.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, I have no reason to change my findings and I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not satisfied the PPI was mis-sold by AXA France 
IARD to Mrs M and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman