DRN-2838589
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the advice he received in 2010 from Portal Financial Services 
LLP (Portal) to transfer four personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and put the proceeds of those transfers in investments he now considers to have 
been too high risk. He says Portals advice was unsuitable.
What happened
In October 2010, Mr N completed a fact-find with Portal. He was 56 at the time, self-
employed, married with grown-up children. He owned a home worth £300,000 that had an 
outstanding mortgage of £200,000. He also owned two properties that he rented out to 
students. Mr N was said to have been looking for finance to carry out maintenance on those 
rental properties which he was struggling to obtain due to being in a debt management 
scheme. He had credit card debts of £27,000. He had four personal pensions but no other 
long-term savings. His chosen retirement age was recorded as being 65.
Portal advised Mr N to transfer his four personal pensions to a SIPP. The combined transfer 
value was approximately £64,000. The proceeds of the transfer were invested as follows:
£6,000 in the JP SPC Koroni Fund (also referred to as the Olive Tree Koroni Fund by 
the parties) 
£13,000 in the Hypa Raithwaite Exempt Property Unit Trust, which invested in a UK 
hotel development
£22,000 in the Hypa Asia Exempt Unit Trust, which invested in hotel developments in 
Asia.
Some of the transfer proceeds remained in cash to pay fees relating to his transfer and his 
SIPP. Mr N also took tax free cash from his pension.
The investments have subsequently failed leaving Mr Ns SIPP with no value. Mr N 
complained to Portal in 2019. Portal didnt investigate the merits of Mr Ns complaint 
because it thought it had been made too late under the rules that govern complaints such as 
this. The complaint was referred to us. An ombudsman decided the complaint had been 
made in time and our investigator subsequently concluded that Mr Ns complaint should be 
upheld. She thought the advice to transfer was suitable because a SIPP would have allowed 
Mr N to access tax free cash from his pension, which he appeared to have been interested 
in doing. But she considered Mr Ns investments to be unsuitable.
As agreement between the parties couldnt be reached, the matter is with me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N may well have been looking to release cash from his pension because his fact-find 
records him as being unable to borrow money for house maintenance due to his debt 
management scheme. It also records him as having no disposable income because of his 
efforts to reduce his debts. As Mr N was 56 at the time, I can see why consolidating his 
pensions in a SIPP, and accessing tax free cash from his pension, could have been suitable 
advice. However, I dont need to make a firm finding on whether the advice to transfer to the 
SIPP was suitable because Portal had a duty to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2), pay due regard to Mr Ns interests (Principle 6) and take reasonable 
steps to ensure its advice was suitable under the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules 
(COBS 9 in particular). It couldnt do any of this without considering the overall transaction, 
including the suitability of the transfer and the suitability of the intended investments. Im 
satisfied the investments, and therefore the overall advice, were unsuitable here. 
I say this because the investments in question were non-mainstream, high-risk and 
speculative. For reasons that I will come on to, Mr N doesnt appear to have had the 
necessary risk appetite or capacity for loss needed for such investments. 
There is very little evidence from the time of the advice. But I have seen a fact-find, which 
includes a risk attitude questionnaire. Mr N has answered some of those questions as 
follows:
Question 1: People who know me would describe me as a cautious person.
Mr N has ticked the box saying No strong opinion.
Question 4: I generally look for the safest type of investment even if that means 
lower returns.
Mr N has ticked the box saying No strong opinion.
Question 6: I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity.
Mr N has ticked the box saying Strongly agree.
Question 9: I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns. 
Mr N has ticked the box saying No strong opinion.
Question 12: When it comes to investing, Id rather be safe than sorry. 
Mr N has ticked the box saying Disagree.
Question 14: I am not willing to take any financial risk.
Mr N has ticked the box saying Disagree.
Some of the questions (6, 12 and 14) suggest Mr N wasnt particularly risk-averse. But other 
questions (1, 4, 9) suggest there were limits to how much risk he really was willing to take. 
Given this, Im satisfied Mr N was most likely to have been a medium risk investor  
especially given the lack of any other compelling evidence (an analysis of his responses to 
the risk questionnaire for instance) to show why his risk tolerance was genuinely higher than 
this. It means the investments were too high risk for him. But even if Mr N was a higher risk 
investor, the fact-find doesnt record him as having any other long-term savings besides the 
pensions he transferred. So allocating the entirety of his pension to a relatively narrow range 
of investments wouldnt have been suitable whatever his risk tolerance. 
Furthermore, Mr N was ultimately investing a large proportion of his pension in land and 
property developments. These investments are, by their very nature, relatively illiquid which can make it difficult sometimes to make disinvestments. So if Mr N was looking to gradually 
release cash from his pension in the short term  which looks to have been a possibility at 
least  then the potential illiquidity of the investments in question would have made this more 
difficult. And if he wasnt looking to release further cash until his chosen retirement age of 65 
 which was only nine years from the date of advice  then having all his pension in 
relatively illiquid assets still wouldnt have been suitable.
Its also apparent Mr N didnt have much capacity for loss. He didnt have any long-term 
savings other than the pensions he transferred. He had a relatively large amount of debt. He 
was in a debt management scheme. He had no disposable income. And he was only nine 
years from his chosen retirement age. It means Mr N would have found it extremely difficult 
to recover any losses to his pension. So Portal should have recommended a more cautious 
approach here to guard against such an eventuality. 
Im satisfied therefore that the underlying investments werent suitable for Mr N. It follows 
that I uphold his complaint against Portal. Portal must put things right for Mr N by following 
the approach outlined below 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr N should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr N would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
Im also satisfied this matter has caused Mr N distress and inconvenience given his pension 
provision has, essentially, disappeared as a result of Portals unsuitable advice. I agree with 
our investigator that £350 is a fair and reasonable amount for this.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr N's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Mr N's pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr N's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr N's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Pay Mr N £350 for the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr N how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of the illiquid 
investments by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investments, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Portal may require that Mr N provides an undertaking to pay 
Portal any amount he may receive from the investments in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr N's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr N into that position. It does not mean that Mr N would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr N could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
Portal Financial Services LLP must compensate Mr N in line with the approach outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman