DRN-3907321
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd (L&G) 
gave them unsuitable investment advice which resulted in them being exposed to more 
investment risk than they were comfortable taking. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W sought investment advice from L&G in 2001. They were both in their 
thirties at the time and employed, bringing home a joint net monthly income of £2,275. 
They had two financial dependents and around £875 net monthly disposable income. 
Mr and Mrs W owned their own home subject to a mortgage. They had £2,350 in 
deposit-based savings and wanted to grow their money with their childrens future in 
mind, thinking ahead to when they grew up and wanted to go to university or buy a car. 
Mr and Mrs W were prepared to accept medium investment risk.
L&G recommended them to invest as follows:
£1,500 lump sum in Mr Ws ISA  UK Recovery fund (later renamed UK Active 
Opportunities Trust)
£850 lump sum in Mrs Ws ISA and also £45 per month into a regular savings plan  
UK Recovery fund (later renamed UK Active Opportunities Trust)
In 2021, Mr and Mrs W complained to L&G after seeing poor returns on their investment 
which they felt didnt match returns on other medium risk investments. During the course of 
correspondence they asked to see the point of sale paperwork, and this led to Mr and Mrs W 
complaining that they were invested in a fund that was too risky for them and didnt reflect 
their medium attitude to risk as recorded in the fact find at the time of the sale. 
L&G explained that the Active Opportunities fund they invested in had been merged into a 
different fund sometime between 2011 and 2014, but that the risk profile of both funds was 
essentially the same although risk was now described differently. 
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt L&Gs 
investment advice had been unsuitable because their portfolio meant they had all of their 
money invested in risk-based assets which effectively put them at higher risk of 
investment loss than was suitable for a medium risk investor.
L&G disputed the investigators view and argued that this service didnt have jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint. The case came to me.
I issued a decision explaining why I was satisfied that I could consider the complaint. 
After receiving my jurisdiction decision, L&G provided us with additional paperwork 
including a key features document, application forms and other post sale communications. 
L&G also said:
 L&G only offered two funds lower in risk, but neither were suitable as Mr and Mrs W 
wanted a medium risk fund.
 The L&G Cash Trust was only available as a maxi ISA, which they couldnt hold due to 
ISA rules. A medium risk fund with L&G was the only option available to them.
 Mr and Mrs W also had a joint asset worth £35,000 although it isnt clear from the 
advisers handwriting what this was.
 Mr and Mrs W signed Key Features documents and the application form declaration 
confirming they understood the risks that the return wasnt guaranteed and they may get 
back more or less than their investment.
 The advice was suitable.
 Mr and Mrs W complained about the advice in 2008, which L&G didnt uphold. The 
review of the point-of-sale documents now completed supports the decision not to uphold 
the complaint in 2008.
 Despite Mr and Mrs Ws complaint not being upheld they have remained invested all 
these years.
 Mr and Mrs W didnt complain about the fund following the merger in 2014 into the L&G 
UK Special Situations Trust.
 Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was mainly about the performance of the fund.
This led to our investigator issuing a second view. He still thought it was unfair for L&G to 
have recommended putting Mr and Mrs Ws entire investable amount in a fund that carried 
100% risk-based assets and wasnt diversified enough. He didnt consider that information 
showing Mr and Mrs W had £35,000 in assets made a difference to his view as it looked 
like this was a reference to the value of their household goods and other possessions. 
So our investigator recommended that the complaint should still be upheld. 
L&G didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. It mainly said:
although 100% of Mr and Mrs Ws funds may have been invested, the amount 
invested was low. The level of their disposable income at £875 per month meant that 
within three months theyd have more saved on deposit than they invested. Within 
six months, theyd have had a balanced portfolio of investments and cash deposits 
at a roughly equal level.
It was struggling to find another L&G fund that could have been recommended 
alongside the L&G UK Recovery Trust to diversify the risk, that would have offered 
the same risk level and meet their investment objective of growth only. The 
remainder of L&Gs fund range at the time either offered a higher risk environment 
which would have been inappropriate or offered income or a blend of income and 
growth, which wasnt what they wanted.
When Mr and Mrs W were informed after their complaint in 2008 that L&G didnt 
believe their investment was mis-sold, they failed to bring that complaint to this 
service at the time or change their investment. Even if they still wanted to invest for 
their long term goals, its reasonable to suggest if they were unhappy with their 
investment, theyd have moved their money into a more suitable environment to 
meet their profile or sought advice about this. It would therefore be unfair to consider 
L&G liable for any compensation after the date of their 2008 complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Dealing first with the question of jurisdiction, L&G has acknowledged that it gave permission 
for this service to look at the complaint raised by Mr and Mrs W and also that, under DISP 
2.8.2A, it cant withdraw that permission. It has however said that I should also take into 
account that Mr and Mrs W brought a complaint about the sale in 2001 which it refuted in 
2008. L&G said it would have provided the right for Mr and Mrs W to refer their complaint to 
this service at the time, which they failed to do. L&G says this means I should apply DISP 
2.8.2R in the sense that this element of the complaint has been brought to your service 
outside the timescales described in the rule, and you wouldnt be able to look at the original 
advice.
I've thought carefully about what L&G says. Unless a business consents or there are 
exceptional circumstances, we cant look at a complaint referred to us more than six 
months after the date on which the business sent the complainant its final response on the 
matter. But it isnt disputed by L&G that it has already consented to us looking into the 
complaint Mr and Mrs W have brought to us about what happened in 2001 when it sold 
them this investment. So it remains my view that I can consider this complaint.
And after looking at the complaint afresh, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ws priorities were to invest a lump sum and save regularly in order to be 
able to provide their children with financial help in the future. They didnt have any 
investment experience. Their total savings amounted to some £2,350 held in a building 
society account. They had a £90,000 mortgage on their home valued at £95,000 and an 
outstanding £10,000 car loan. 
Theres mention in the fact find of Mr and Mrs W having £875 net monthly disposable 
income, but theres no detailed information about Mr and Mrs Ws monthly expenditure 
to show me how this figure was arrived at. 
Its not clear what discussion took place around their attitude to risk, although I can see 
that the advisor ticked boxes on the fact find that show they were recorded as having a 
medium attitude to risk. 
But I cant see that having a sum set aside to cover emergency spending needs or large 
unplanned expenses was discussed or recommended. Mr and Mrs W had two pre-
school age children, so it seems to me they could reasonably anticipate having to face 
the likelihood of increasing outgoings for many years to come. They had relatively 
modest annual earnings and the fact find records that they had no particular expectation 
that their incomes would do more than keep pace with inflation.  
I think it would have been important for Mr and Mrs W to have some readily accessible 
savings put aside before they committed to a longer-term lump sum investment, 
especially bearing in mind the likely increasing financial demands of raising a young 
family. Their total savings amounted to approximately a single months worth of their 
joint earnings. Without having some money set aside in a savings account which they 
could access without notice and without penalty I dont find Mr and Mrs W had the 
capacity to risk loss on their investments. 
I dont consider that having £35,000 in unspecified assets is a good enough reason to 
think that Mr and Mrs W mightve had some additional capacity for loss which wasnt 
accounted for. And although L&G states that it cannot read the handwriting on the fact find where the £35,000 assets are noted, as the investigator stated, it appears that these 
assets were recorded as being chattels. On balance, my view is that assets held in this 
form are unlikely to have been quickly and easily realisable in the event that 
Mr and Mrs W had needed some funds in an emergency.
Whilst the ISAs could have been surrendered at any time, their value wasnt guaranteed, 
especially in the short to medium term. They were intended to be held over the medium 
to long term and whilst this matched Mr and Mrs Ws investment objective it risked them 
getting back less than they invested if they needed to surrender their ISAs early  which 
they might have needed to do if they had a need for cash. 
Mr and Mrs W were already paying into a Legal & General Mini Stocks & Shares ISA for 
their mortgage requirements. But I think it's fair to say their investment experience was 
limited. So I think it was likely to have been more difficult for them to understand the risk 
they were taking by having all their savings tied up in investments that were effectively 
designed to be locked away for the long term. 
In coming to my provisional decision, I've taken into account that if Mr and Mrs W had 
disposable income of £875 per month, within three months they could have saved enough to 
more than match their existing savings and start building a balanced portfolio of investments 
and cash deposits at a roughly equal level. But I think Mr and Mrs W should have been 
advised to build up an emergency savings fund in a bank deposit account before they 
committed any of their money to longer term investment. 
Ive also thought carefully about why L&G feels it is unfair for it to be held liable for any 
compensation after the date of Mr and Mrs Ws 2008 complaint. But I dont know exactly 
what L&G told Mr and Mrs W previously or what they understood about their options at the 
time so this doesnt affect my overall view. I have explained why I consider this complaint to 
be in jurisdiction. In line with the ombudsman approach to putting things right where a 
complaint is upheld, I consider it is fair and reasonable for L&G to pay compensation to 
reflect the financial consequences of its unsuitable investment recommendation in 2001.   
So L&G needs to take steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs W are happy with what I've said in my provisional decision and L&G has told me 
it has nothing further to add. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of 
this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs W as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.I take the view that Mr and Mrs W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given their needs and circumstances when they invested.
To compensate Mr and Mrs W  fairly, L&G must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs W 's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and 
the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
L&G should also pay interest as set out below.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
UK Special 
Situations 
Trust (which 
replaced the 
Legal & 
General UK 
Recovery 
fund, then the 
UK
Active 
Opportunities 
Trust Mr and 
Mrs W 
originally 
invested in)Not known Average rate 
from fixed rate
bondsDate of 
investmentDate
ceased to
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. HM Revenue & Customs requires 
L&G to take off tax from the interest part of this award. L&G must give Mr and Mrs W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr and Mrs W paid into the investment should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs W were assessed as having a medium attitude to 
investment risk. But, had the adviser discussed their need for having money 
to cover emergency or unplanned spending, I think its more likely than not 
that they would have put their existing savings and the £45 a month 
investment in a savings account, where they would have had ready access 
to their money without risking any of their capital  at least until they had 
built up a sufficient reserve to give them some capacity to absorb 
investment loss.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that they would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a 
consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd should 
pay Mr and Mrs W the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman