DRN-3112934
The complaint
Mr A complains that Next Risk Solutions Limited trading as Quote Detective (Next) 
misadvised him about the cooling off period applicable to his car insurance policy, meaning 
he cancelled outside of this and lost money as a result. 
  
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on Mr As complaint in September 2021. In my provisional 
decision I explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint. Ive included an extract of 
my provisional decision below, so I wont repeat it here. I asked both parties to provide any 
further comments or evidence before I issue my final decision. Next didnt reply, and Mr A 
responded with some comments, which Ill address below. 
Extract of my provisional decision
What happened
On 14 September 2019 Mr A took a car insurance policy with Next during a phone call, 
after getting an online quotation. 
On 25 September 2019 Mr A called Next to ask which date the cooling off period ended 
on. Mr A says he was told this ended on 28 September 2019, but Next says Mr A was 
told it ended on 27 September 2019.
Mr A called Next again on 28 September 2019 to cancel the policy, believing he was 
cancelling within the cooling off period. During this call Mr A was told the cooling off 
period ended on 27 September 2019. As Next says Mr A in fact cancelled outside of the 
cooling off period, it has charged him several chares which he wouldnt otherwise have 
paid.
Mr A complains that Next shouldve provided him with the call recording from 25 
September 2019 when he initially disputed this; because Next didnt do that, it now says 
the call recording is unavailable as the call happened over a year ago. 
 
Mr A has also complained that when he contacted Next to raise a complaint about this 
he was told itd be resolved within a matter of days. But he explains that it took Next 
around a month to send its reply to his complaint. 
Next didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that the cancellation terms had been made 
clear to Mr A both during the initial phone call, and in its welcome letter that it sent on 
the day the policy started. It has offered to refund a £38 cancellation charge and a 
£40.50 administration fee, but Mr A hasnt accepted this as a resolution, so he brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Next should do anything else to put things right. 
He thought that Mr A had cancelled outside of the cooling off period, so he thought the 
offer Next had made to Mr A was fair. 
As Mr A remains dissatisfied the case has been passed to me to make a decision and 
bring the matter to a close.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, as Ive said, Ive 
reached a different conclusion to our investigator. So Ill explain why I think Next hasnt 
acted fairly, and how I think it should put things right. 
I should start by explaining that the crux of this complaint isnt Nexts cancellation terms. 
Its whether Mr A was given incorrect information during a phone call, which led to him 
acting outside of the policys cancellation terms. 
Next initially said it couldnt provide any information about the call that Mr A made to it 
on 25 September 2019. After receiving evidence from Mr A that he did in fact make the 
call, Next maintained that it couldnt provide a recording of the call, but it did provide a 
very brief contact note. The note suggests Mr A was told that the cooling off period 
would end on 27 September 2019. But having considered this alongside all the 
circumstances of the complaint, I dont accept this. 
Mr As recollections have been consistent and plausible throughout the very long 
process that his complaint has followed. And its clear from the fact that he made a call 
on 25 September 2019 that he wanted to know the last day he could cancel his policy 
under the cooling off period. This information was clearly important to Mr A so I dont 
think hed then have failed to act in line with what hed been told. And as Next only 
provided very brief information about this call, when it could and should have provided a 
recording of it whilst it was able to, I accept that Mr A was most likely told the cooling off 
period ended on 28 September 2019. 
Had Mr A been given the correct information I think hed have taken a different course 
of action  namely by cancelling the policy on 27 September 2019  and would 
therefore have benefited from the different cancellation terms.
As Ive accepted that Mr A was most likely given inaccurate information, Ive also given 
thought to whether its reasonable for Mr A to have accepted that information without 
questioning it. And having done so, I think it was. Considering the insurance policy 
started on 14 September 2019, 14 days after this is 28 September 2019. I know Next 
says that the first day of cover is counted as one day of the cooling off period, but I think 
its perfectly reasonable that Mr A wouldnt have known this, so wouldve accepted 
being told the cooling off period ended on 28 September 2019. And I also havent seen 
in the terms and conditions of the policy, nor during the initial sales call, that this is 
clearly explained in any other way.
Mr A initially made a payment to Next of £322.50 which Next says was not an initial 
instalment, but the policy set up charge. I dont think it has been clear about what Mr A 
has paid and what for, nor what it has charged to cancel the policy in line with the terms 
and conditions. So Ill set out below what Next needs to do to put things right. 
Additionally I can see that the welcome letter that Next sent to Mr A says You have 
indicated that you would like to finance your insurance premium and we can confirm 
receipt of your initial payment of £322.50 with thanks. So Im satisfied that this charge 
was in relation to the policy itself and should be considered as part of what Mr A has 
paid for the insurance when Next is calculating what it owes him.
I know theres been some dispute as to whether Mr A received Nexts welcome letter. 
But I dont think thats relevant here  as I think the complaint should be upheld for a 
different reason. So I havent considered that any further.   
Ive also considered the delay that Mr A says Next caused in responding to his 
complaint. Whilst I understand this delay isnt what Mr A mightve expected, or indeed 
what he mightve been led to believe, I dont require Next to do anything in relation to this. The regulator allows a business eight weeks to respond to a complaint and as Next 
responded within that time, I dont think it acted unreasonably here. 
It follows that for the reasons Ive explained, my intention is to uphold this complaint.
Ill now go on to address Mr As further points and provide my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again, including the further points Mr A made, I havent changed 
my conclusions. 
 Mr A has explained that when he asked Next for the call recording that took place on 25 
September 2019, it wasnt able to provide it. Mr A has questioned why Next said that.
Next has explained that it doesnt hold call recordings for longer than 12 months, and indeed 
it also wasnt able to provide the call recording in question to this service. But as I explained 
in my provisional decision, it was able to provide a brief call note. Mr A has raised the fact 
that Next didnt provide him with this note. I understand Mr A feels aggrieved at this but as 
Ive accepted Mr As version of events in any case, whether he had a copy of the note or not 
hasnt negatively impacted him in terms of the decision Ive reached. So I dont have 
anything more to add to this. 
Ive noted that Mr A has also summarised how he thinks Next should put things right. Hes 
explained that he wants Next to confirm what hed have been charged and refunded to him if 
hed cancelled within the cooling off period. As I concluded in my provisional decision that Mr 
A shouldve been charged as though he cancelled within the cooling off period, Ive already 
set out how I require Next to put things right, which is broadly in line with what Mr A has 
asked for.  Ive reiterated this below.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Next to:
Consider what Mr A has paid to Next (£322.50 plus £38.00) and then:
- Deduct the pro rata charge for the time Mr As policy was on cover; 
- Deduct the administration fee, which must be clearly explained;
- Deduct any charges for the time any optional additional products were 
covered, if applicable;
- Deduct the cancellation charge of £50.00;
Pay Mr A the balance of the above calculation.
Next should explain clearly how it has calculated the payment in a letter or email to Mr A. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr As complaint against Next Risk Solutions Limited  
trading as Quote Detective and I require the business to do what Ive said above to put 
things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman