DRN-2927977
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt honour an incentive that was in place when 
he switched accounts.
What happened
Mr G wanted to take advantage of an incentive that included the provision of a gift if Mr G 
switched his current account to Clydesdale and registered for Clydesdales mobile banking 
app within a set timeframe.
Mr G submitted a request for his account to be switched on two occasions, but both times 
Clydesdale advised that they were unable to accept the requests because the information 
that Mr G provided didnt match the information on the existing account he was trying to 
switch. This was because Mr G had given Clydesdale his own information only, but his 
existing account still had Mr Gs ex-wife listed as a joint account holder.
Mr G took the necessary steps to have his ex-wife removed from his existing account and 
the switch was then able to take place. However, the timeframe for the incentive had passed 
and Clydesdale confirmed that Mr G didnt qualify for the incentive awards because of this. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Clydesdale looked at Mr Gs complaint, but they confirmed that Mr G hadnt met the 
requirements for the incentive and so they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong. Mr G 
wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that because Mr G hadnt 
been able to action the account switch or register for the mobile banking app within the 
necessary timeframe that it couldnt be fairly said that Clydesdale had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not providing the awards of the incentive to Mr G.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr G to have tried to switch his current 
account to Clydesdale in order to take advantage of the incentive that Clydesdale were 
offering, only for his attempts to have been hindered because of a difference in the 
information hed provided for the switch in relation to the status of his existing account.
But the criteria that needed to be met in order to qualify the incentive were clearly defined by 
Clydesdale, and included that the a customers current account should be switched and that 
the customer should register for Clydesdales online banking app within a set timeframe.
Ultimately, Mr G wasnt able to meet these timeframes, and as such didnt meet the stated 
criteria for the incentive that he was attempting to take advantage of. And it cant be said that 
this was because of anything that Clydesdale did or didnt do here. 
Because of this, while I can sympathise with the issues that Mr G faced, I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably say that Clydesdale have done anything wrong in concluding that Mr G 
didnt qualify for the incentive or in not provided the awards of that incentive to Mr G.
Mr G has stated that he found it difficult to remove his ex-wife from his current account in 
order to enable the switch and that one reason for this was the restrictions that his previous 
bank had in place regarding branch visits because of the Covid-19 global pandemic.
I can appreciate Mr Gs frustrations in this regard, but I dont feel the difficulties that Mr G 
faced are such that I can reasonably instruct Clydesdale to make an exception to the terms 
of their incentive as Mr G would like. Indeed, it must be noted that it was the responsibility of 
Mr G to have been aware of the status of his existing account and to have ensured that the 
account was in a position so that the attempted account switch would have been successful 
in the first instance. 
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Clydesdale have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Clydesdale to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting, but I trust that he will 
understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman