DRN-3137702
The complaint
 This complaint is about an application that Mr and Mrs K made in 2019 for a further 
advance and a new fixed rate on their mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money. Mr and Mrs K say the application was unduly delayed, leaving them paying 
the standard variable rate (SVR) for longer than necessary. Clydesdale offered 
compensation but Mr and Mrs K didnt think its enough. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Clydesdale to pay 
Mr and Mrs K all of the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Clydesdale 
unduly and excessively delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions, and 
that the delay was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to 
Mr and Mrs K. 
Looking at the overall progression of this application, I find that this is a case where part, but 
not all, of of the delay is down to specific errors or omissions on Clydesdales part. Having 
considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I agree with the 
investigators assessment that but for Clydesdales failings, the transaction could most likely 
have completed three months earlier than it did. Its therefore right that Clydesdale should 
refund three months worth of the difference in interest between its SVR and the fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs R say that should be longer; they think the time spent waiting for a new tenancy 
agreement on a buy-to-let property they own, which was part of Clydesdales affordability 
assessment, was unnecessary. Theyre entitled to think that, but its important to remember 
that no one is entitled to borrow money. All applications, however established the applicant 
as an existing borrower, are subject to the lenders lending criteria. 
Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
My role is not to substitute my judgement in place of Clydesdales on what underwriting 
checks are made before it will agree on whether and how much to lend. 
On the subject of compensation for time, trouble and upset, Clydesdales initial offer of £100 
fell well short of what I consider reasonable in all the circumstances. The £250 proposed by 
the investigator is fairer, and that is what I award.
Lastly, I note Mr and Mrs K ideally wanted the end date on their new fixed rate to align with 
the end date on the other part of their mortgage, with a view to merging them later without 
incurring an early repayment charge. Ive looked at the respective end dates and have to say 
that regardless of how long this application took, such an objective was always very unlikely 
to be achievable.
Mr and Mrs K dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Clydesdale will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ks right to take legal action against Clydesdale over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to:
refund to Mr and Mrs K the difference in interest between its SVR and the new fixed rate 
for the last three monthly payments Mr and Mrs K made before their new mortgage 
completed in 2020;
pay Mr and Mrs K interest at 8% simple per annum* on each of the three refunded 
amounts, calculated from the date of each monthly payment up to the eventual date of 
settlement; and
pay Mr and Mrs R £250.
*If Clydesdale considered it should deduct income tax from the interest element of this 
award, it must supply Mr and Ms B with the relevant tax certificate.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman