DRN-3625897
The complaint
Mrs H complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund her for transactions 
totalling £5,847, which she said she didnt make.
What happened
In May 2021, Mrs H went to an HSBC branch and said there were fraudulent transactions on 
her basic bank account. These had taken place between 24 November 2019 and 28 April 
2021. They were a mixture of cash machine withdrawals, and money spent with retailers. 
The total of the transactions which Mrs H said were fraudulent was £5,847.
Mrs H had blocked her previous card in November 2019. When she reported the fraudulent 
transactions in May 2021, she said shed never received the replacement card. So she said 
all the transactions on the card which had been replaced in November 2019 had been 
fraudulent. The account had been receiving benefits, and credits from her childrens father. 
She also told HSBC that shed written down the PIN in her bag. Mrs H said that the branch 
told her it was fraud and shed get a phone call confirming how much the refund was.
When HSBC investigated, it didnt agree that the disputed transactions had been fraudulent. 
In its final response letter, it said that Mrs Hs genuine card had been used for the 
transactions. It explained that the chip embedded in the card is read when theres a 
transaction, and there have never been any known incidents of a chip within a card being 
copied. And the transactions could only have been made using the correct four digit PIN.
HSBC said that Mrs H had said shed written down her PIN, which was a breach of the terms 
and conditions of her account. And it also noted that Mrs H had contacted HSBC on 24 
March 2020, asking about an overdraft. The security questions had asked her to confirm the 
value of a cash machine withdrawal on 19 March, and Mrs H had said it was around £200, 
which was correct. On that call, Mrs H hadnt said shed never had the card.
HSBC also pointed out that the disputed transactions were to the same retailers, and used 
the same cash machines, that Mrs H had used before. Also, although Mrs H had told HSBC 
she hadnt had access to her online banking for 18 months, it could see shed been making 
external payments using online banking. So HSBC said it didnt agree that Mrs H hadnt  
received her card, hadnt made the disputed transactions and hadnt authorised someone 
else to make the transactions.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Mrs H told our investigator that she hadnt received any statements, and hadnt been able to 
look at them online because her card had been blocked and shed needed to clear cookies 
to access internet banking. She said shed had carers until covid started, and wouldnt have 
given her card to the carers. She said that her post box was outside and post had been 
taken before. She also said she could only do telephone banking if needed, and hadnt made 
the call asking HSBC for an overdraft.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She set out multiple reasons, and said the 
evidence suggested it was unlikely Mrs H didnt know about the transactions and unlikely 
that she hadnt authorised them.
Mrs H didnt agree. She sent copies of the chat shed had with HSBC about her dispute. This 
included chat messages from HSBC in September 2019 saying her replacement card had 
been sent out, and a similar message in May 2021 after Mrs H had reported that shed never 
received the previous card. But our investigator said that this information didnt change her 
view. 
Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place between November 2019 and May 2021 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, HSBC) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, HSBC has provided evidence that the 
disputed payments were authenticated. The regulations go on to say that its necessary to 
look at whether the card holder authorised the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable 
if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised 
payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details 
secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Mrs H authorised the disputed 
payments. I recognise that Mrs H said that she was shielding during the covid pandemic, but 
it also counts as being authorised by the account holder, if an account holder provides 
someone else with the means to make the payments for them.
Who authorised the disputed payments? 
Ive considered a number of factors in reaching my decision about whats more likely than 
not to have happened. 
The disputed withdrawals were carried out using the genuine card issued by HSBC in 
November 2019, and the correct PIN. I recognise that Mrs H has said she never received the 
card, and that she had an external post box from which items had previously gone missing. 
But if the new card didnt arrive, I dont understand why Mrs H didnt immediately ask HSBC 
where her replacement card was. Shes sent us a copy of a September 2019 message she 
received saying the card would arrive within three working days, and she didnt report it 
missing at that point, or indeed for nearly two years. So I think its likely Mrs H did receive 
the 2019 card. There are also 10,000 possible combinations of a four digit PIN, meaning that its unlikely a 
fraudster would guess Mrs Hs PIN correctly first time. Ive seen no evidence on the 
computer records that an incorrect PIN was entered on any of the disputed transactions. I 
also note that Mrs H told HSBC that she had her PIN written down in her bag. As HSBC 
pointed out, this is against the terms and conditions of her account, and as Ive set out 
above, failing to keep details secure can count as gross negligence under the Payment 
Services Regulations.
Mrs H says that she didnt ring HSBC on 24 March 2020 asking for an overdraft. Ive listened 
to the call recording, during which the caller requested an overdraft. The caller said she was 
Mrs H, and passed security for her account. The voice sounds the same as on a call 
recording between Mrs H and our investigator in regard to this case. So I think it was Mrs H 
who made that call.
Also on that call, the security questions asked by HSBC included asking about the amount of 
cash Mrs H had withdrawn a few days earlier on 19 March. Mrs H passed that. She didnt 
say that she hadnt withdrawn that money. Nor did she say that shed never received her 
2019 card. If Mrs H had never received her card  and if shed never made the 19 March 
cash withdrawal  Id have expected her to say so on that call. 
The same day, 24 March 2020, there are 11 mobile banking logins. Mrs H told our 
investigator that her online banking wasnt working, and every time she accessed it, shed be 
asked to clear cookies. But the evidence shows that Mrs H could view her accounts on the 
mobile app. If she hadnt been able to do so, Id have expected her to have told HSBC on 
this call that the app wasnt working.
Ive also looked at the transactions on Mrs Hs account. There are credits which Mrs H said 
were from the father of her children. There isnt a regular pattern to these. But the money 
was withdrawn soon after these came in. For example:
- on 6 December 2019, he sent £60 and then £70 to Mrs Hs account. On 7 December, 
£120 cash was taken out of the account at a cash machine;
- on 16 December 2019, he sent £200. On 17 December, £210 was taken out of the 
account at a cash machine.
In both cases, there hadnt otherwise been enough in the account for these withdrawals. So 
whoever made the withdrawals knew promptly when the money was being sent to Mrs Hs 
account, and how much had been paid in. Its unlikely a third party fraudster would have 
known that.
There are also some online payments, for example to a streaming service, an online 
payment company, and an online retailer, which Mrs H didnt dispute. I cant see how Mrs H 
made those payments if she hadnt received her card.
Taking all these factors into account, I dont think its likely that a third party fraudster carried 
out the disputed payments. I think its more likely than not that either Mrs H carried these out 
herself, or she provided someone else with her card and security details so that they could 
carry them out for her. Both of these count as Mrs H authorising the transactions, under the 
Payment Services Regulations. Ive seen the many chat messages which Mrs H sent to us 
after the investigator issued her view, but they dont make any difference to my decision.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I dont require HSBC to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman