DRN-1534336
 
The complaint
Mr L makes a number of complaints about TSB Bank plc following two visits to a branch in 
November 2018.
What happened
Mr L says he attended a TSB branch on 12 November 2018 following a payment dispute. He 
says TSB agreed to pay for his call costs and taxi fare but the actual costs were higher. Mr L 
would like TSB to pay for those extra costs. He says he also attended a branch on 19 
November 2018 as a result of TSB not giving him correct information. And TSB agreed to 
pay his call costs and travel costs. Mr L says the actual costs were higher than have been 
paid, and he was treated badly in branch by TSB staff. He would like an apology and for the 
extra costs to be paid.
TSB says it agreed to cover Mr L's costs for both visits and has paid those costs. It also says 
it has paid £25 compensation for asking Mr L to attend the branch on the second occasion. 
TSB says it has no record of Mr L being treated badly in branch and has asked its staff about 
that. It also says it relied on what Mr L told it about the travel and call costs.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall TSB had dealt fairly 
with both matters. The investigator thought TSB had accepted it should have given Mr L 
correct information about his PIN which resulted in the second visit to branch. But that it had 
fairly paid £25 compensation and Mr L's costs. The investigator also thought TSB had fairly 
paid for the costs of the first visit and didn't think Mr L had provided any evidence of those 
costs being higher than the amount TSB paid.
Mr L says he has been trying to get evidence of the call costs but says TSB has been hiding 
his original complaint. He says the TSB manager was rude when he attended the branch 
and says TSB didn't settle his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
I'm satisfied that TSB needed Mr L to attend a branch on 12 November 2018. I can see that 
Mr L doesn't dispute that was the case and I'm also satisfied that TSB fairly agreed to pay for 
Mr L's travel costs. I think TSB paid those costs based on the information Mr L gave it about 
how much they were. 
TSB accepts that the second visit was due to it not giving Mr L correct information about the 
PIN  that meant he couldn't use his new account card. But I'm satisfied  TSB has  fairly paid 
Mr L's costs in attending a branch and in calling it. I think it paid those costs without seeing 
any evidence of them but based on what Mr L said they were. I'm also satisfied that TSB paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £25 for Mr L's inconvenience in 
attending a branch.
I appreciate the main part of Mr L's complaint is that the actual travel and call costs were 
higher than the amount TSB paid. But I can also see that Mr L has had over 18 months to 
provide evidence of the call costs or to provide evidence of the taxi fares. I would have 
expected Mr L to have asked for a receipt from the taxi driver at the time, as I think he would, 
or ought to, have been aware it would be needed in these circumstances. As Mr L hasn't 
provided evidence of the extra costs then I can't fairly order TSB to reimburse them. 
I also appreciate that Mr L says TSB behaved badly towards him in branch. I'm satisfied that 
TSB has investigated that part of the complaint but its staff do not have a record of any 
incident. So in those circumstances it is difficult to be sure what took place and I can't see 
any evidence on TSB's records about any incident or that Mr L has told us exactly what took 
place. 
Overall I'm satisfied TSB has dealt fairly with these complaints, and so I don't require it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of them. I'm also satisfied that we have looked into the 
complaints Mr L brought and that TSB has investigated the correct ones
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman