DRN-4491138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds handling of their home 
insurance claim.
Mr and Mrs O are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the complaint 
has been from Mr O, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
Accredited is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Accredited has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Accredited includes the actions of the agents.
 
What happened
In January 2023, Mr O made an escape of water claim under his home insurance policy after 
noticing a leak. Accredited told him it could cover the costs for trace and access and damage 
caused by the leak once cover was confirmed but it wouldnt cover the cost of fixing the leak 
itself. 
Mr O told Accredited he had a health condition which had been made worse as a result of no 
hot water or heating in his house. He and Mrs O went to stay with a friend.
After the leak was repaired and the boiler was turned on, the boiler broke down. Accredited 
initially told Mr O the cost of replacing the boiler wasnt covered by the policy but it later 
agreed that it was. 
Accrediteds surveyor initially visited the property at the beginning of February and 
recommended the property be dried through heating and ventilation. They reattended again 
in early March, after the boiler had broken down, and observed that the moisture levels had 
increased. The surveyor noted there was an ongoing water ingress and condensation which 
suggested a pre-existing issue. 
Accredited instructed contractors to carry out repairs to the property in April 2023. The 
contractors visited the property in mid-May but there was a delay in the scope of works being 
approved. In early July, Mr and Mrs O decided that they didnt want Accrediteds approved 
contractors to go ahead with the work.
Accredited instructed different contractors to carry out the work. A few weeks later Mr O 
raised concerns that he hadnt been contacted by the drying team or the contents supplier. 
He also wanted to know what the final scope of works was. Mr O told Accredited he was 
about to have heart surgery and wanted to know what was going on.
Accredited said it had chased the contractor for the scope of work and would do its best to 
update Mr O before his surgery. The day after Mr Os surgery, Accredited said it had 
received the scope of works and had requested amendments to be made.
Mr O raised some further concerns with Accredited regarding its communication and poor 
service. He said the drying team didnt have a complete specification of work they were 
supposed to be doing. The builders had informed him of some work they were doing and 
some they were not doing, yet this had been agreed by two surveyors. Mr O said the stress 
was negatively impacting his health.
Accredited told Mr O the drying team would reattend in late August to remove floor tiles and 
to review what further measures were required regarding the upstairs bedroom. 
Mr O raised an issue about the ceilings in some of his rooms potentially having asbestos. He 
said his broken shower hadnt been mentioned and there was no mention of lights in the 
bathroom being checked for water damage. He said the builders did not want his dogs in the 
house while the work was going on, but he would need to pay £50 a day for them to be 
looked after. He said he hadnt received accommodation money from not being in his house.
Accredited said the scope of works was a moving document which required going back and 
forth before being finalised. The contractor was not able to give a start date for reinstatement 
works until the scope had been agreed. 
Mr O asked our service to consider his concerns. He was unhappy with Accrediteds 
communication with him and delays in beginning the work.  He also didnt think Accredited 
had taken his medical conditions into account.
Accredited told us the property was deemed dry on 24 August and it was waiting for a start 
date for the contractors to carry out the work. It said it had followed normal procedures 
throughout the claim. It understood that at times things may have taken longer than 
expected but it was dealing with a high influx of escape of water claims. 
In September 2023, Accredited told Mr O that the contractor no longer wanted to do the 
work. It told him it didnt have any other contractors in the area who could carry out the work. 
Accredited said it would need to make a cash settlement and Mr O should get his own 
quotes for it to review.
Our investigator thought Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He thought Accrediteds 
communication with Mr O had been poor and it was responsible for some delays in 
progressing his claim. He recommended Accredited pay Mr and Mrs O £700 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Accredited disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said the claim was opened during its 
surge period and the whole industry was affected with an influx of claims due to the winter 
freeze event, which meant it wasnt always able to respond as quickly as it would have liked 
to.
Accredited said that after the property was signed off as dry, it was advised of further 
moisture. It attempted to mitigate this by lifting the tiles and carrying out further drying, but 
this was unsuccessful. It said salt tests were carried out which confirmed damp issues. 
When the property was declared dry, moisture levels were where they should be, but the 
damp reappeared. 
Accredited said it would like to propose a counteroffer of £400 which it believed to be fairer 
and more reasonable. 
As Accredited disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mr O has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
I understand that Mr Os claim is still ongoing, and hes made us aware of some other 
concerns since our investigator issued his outcome to this complaint. I thought it would be 
helpful to provide some clarity about the Financial Ombudsman Services role and the scope 
of the complaint that Im deciding. Our role is to resolve disputes between complainants and 
financial businesses, to help both parties move on. It isnt our role to handle a claim or to 
deal with matters as they arise.
In this decision, I will only be considering matters Mr O has raised with Accredited prior to 
the date our investigator issued his outcome to the complaint in October 2023.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. It should 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress.
Accredited says delays in progressing Mr Os claim were due to an influx of claims due to a 
winter surge event. I appreciate that some delays were unavoidable. However, nine months 
after the escape of water event, repairs to the damage were yet to commence, with no 
contractor in place to carry out the work.
The policys terms and conditions say that when Accredited receives a claim it will carry out 
any work that is needed to reduce any further loss or damage
In a visit on 1 March 2023, the surveyor has noted that Mr O had not had equipment on due 
to the increase in his energy bills, the boiler was not working, and more equipment was 
needed on the revisit. A few weeks later, Accredited agreed it would cover the costs of 
drying regardless of the validation of the claim. If Accredited had agreed to do this sooner, I 
think its likely the drying would have been completed earlier and further damage might have 
been prevented. 
Accredited says that further moisture was found after signing the property off as dry and it 
tried to mitigate this by lifting the tiles and carrying out further drying, which was 
unsuccessful. 
Mr O says no tiles were lifted. The salt tests were done in April or May. In July the new 
builder and senior surveyor said the house needed more drying and instructed the drying 
team to lift the tiles. However, the tiles were never lifted. The damp became an issue 
because there was no heating in the house for two months. The moisture went into the walls, 
leading to cracking due to the house heating up.
According to Accrediteds reports, nitrate tests were first carried out on 21 March. The next 
visit was on 24 April where rising damp is mentioned. The report from the visit on 24 August 
includes a note from the surveyor which says: I also appreciate that your operatives carried 
out a salts test and it is believed that there is an issue with water coming up through the 
floor. Due to the construction type, age of building and location, I would feel more 
comfortable in knowing that we have given the benefit of the doubt by lifting the floor tiles and attempting to dry the immediate floor. If this fails, we can safely say that there is an 
ongoing existing issue.
However, next to what work has been completed on this visit it says: Tested concrete floor 
under tiles in kitchen / dry results. The report says drying was not required and Dry floor in 
kitchen, wall is wet. So, it doesnt look like the floor tiles were lifted because the floor 
underneath was dry. However, there was evidence of damp on the wall. 
It seems from the above, that Accredited first identified that there might be a pre-existing 
issue in March 2023. However, there appear to have been delays in investigating it further. 
And Accredited doesnt appear to have explained to Mr O what needed to be done to resolve 
the issue with the damp. Its communication with Mr O regarding the repairs its willing to 
cover doesnt seem to be very clear either.
I understand Mr O has been staying with friends because of concerns about how the poor 
condition of the property might affect his health. Mr O has significant health issues, which he 
made Accredited aware of early on in the claim. I can see that Accredited paid Mr and Mrs O 
an inconvenience allowance of £840 in March 2023 because they werent able to live at the 
property. However, it doesnt appear to have considered the impact of Mr O having to live 
away from home for an extended length of time beyond that.
Mr O has told us that Accrediteds handling of his claim has caused him stress which has 
had a negative impact on his health. I understand at least one of the conditions he has can 
be made worse by stress.
Taking into account that some of the delay was beyond Accrediteds control, I still think it 
could have done more to progress Mr Os claim more quickly. It also should have 
communicated with him better  keeping him up to date on the progress of his claim and 
being clearer about next steps.  
I think Accrediteds handling of Mr Os claim has caused him considerable distress, upset 
and worry above what might reasonably be expected. This had a greater impact on Mr O 
because of his health conditions. Hes been unable to return to his home for a considerable 
length of time and has experienced unnecessary distress while hes been recovering from 
surgery. So, I think it would be reasonable for Accredited to pay Mr O £700 in recognition of 
this.
Putting things right
Accredited should pay Mr and Mrs O £700 for distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and direct Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman