The complaint
Miss H complains about a loan, credit card and overdraft facility she has with Barclays Bank 
UK Plc.
What happened
Miss H holds a number of different products with Barclays and has made a number of 
complaints about each of these products. A summary of her complaint points are below:
Overdraft fees and charges
PPI
Loan fees and charges
Emergency cash
Overdraft fees and charges.
Miss H says a number of fees and charges have been applied to her bank account. She 
doesnt think these charges are correct. This complaint is being dealt with separately under a 
different reference number and so I wont be commenting on this complaint point in this 
decision.
PPI
Miss H says she was mis-sold PPI on some products she holds with Barclays. This 
complaint is being looked at under a difference case reference and so I wont be 
commenting on it as part of this decision. 
Loan fees and charges
Miss H says that fees and charges have been applied to her loan account  she doesnt feel 
that these have been applied correctly. And shes doesnt think the amount shes repaid 
towards her loan is correct. 
Barclays say that the only charges that have been applied to the account are interest 
charges. And that from June 2019, it stopped charging interest to the account. Barclays say 
the interest charges have been applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account. 
And so, it hasnt done anything wrong. It has also said that the monthly payments it 
requested from Miss H are correct and that Miss H stopped paying the loan in December 
2018.
Our investigator looked at Miss Hs loan statements and found that Barclays hadnt made 
any errors in the amount it was asking Miss H to pay. 
DRN-1839595Emergency cash
Miss H says that her request for emergency cash was declined by Barclays. She says that 
there was enough available credit in her account at the time she made the request and so 
she doesnt think Barclays have acted fairly by declining the request.
Barclays say that the first request Miss H made on 15 February 2019 was declined because 
she didnt have enough available funds in her account. Its said that a request for an 
emergency card was made through a third party and this too was declined because it 
doesnt have the facility to do this. Another request for emergency cash was received on 19 
February 2019. Barclays say it accepted this request, but because Miss H wasnt able to 
provide sufficient identification, it was declined by the third party. 
Our investigator looked into this point for Miss H. And thought that Barclays had acted fairly 
when it declined Miss Hs first two requests. He also thought that Barclays had accepted the 
third request, and it was down to the third party that the request was eventually declined. 
Id like to make it clear that I cant look into the actions of a third party in this decision. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators outcome on any of the above points, and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Hs situation. Its clear that shes going 
through a difficult time. But being impartial means I need to take a step back and look at both 
sides of the story. And to look to see if Barclays has acted fairly an d reasonably. Having 
read everything both parties have sent to me, I think Barclays have acted fairly. And so Im 
not going to ask it to do anything more for Miss H.
Loan fees and charges
Miss H took out a loan with Barclays in June 2018. I can see from her loan statements that 
every month she is charged interest. This is normal, as the interest represents the cost of 
borrowing the money. The interest rate and how interest is applied to the loan is explained in 
the loan agreement that Miss H agreed to at the time, and I dont find this agreement to be 
unreasonable. 
There havent been any other charges applied to Miss Hs loan account. I can see that 
Barclays stopped charging interest in June 2019, as Miss H was unable to make repayments 
to the loan. I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive also looked at the amount Barclays asked Miss H to pay each month  Miss H doesnt 
believe that shes been paying the correct amount. I can see from Miss Hs loan agreement 
that she was due to pay £364.48 each month. I can see that Miss H made six payments of 
£364.48 to the loan. And that the last payment she made was in November 2018. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that the amount Barclays was asking for each month was 
incorrect  and this amount was detailed in her loan agreement, and so I think its right.
The amount due each month is calculated as a proportion of the balance she owed along 
with interest. Interest is charged on the balance of the account daily and then applied monthly. So at the start of the loan, she may pay off more in interest as the balance on the 
account is higher, but ultimately, the amount shed need to pay each month wouldnt change.
For the reasons above, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong in relation to the 
charges and payments on the loan account.
Emergency cash
On 15 February 2019 Miss H applied for £100 emergency cash. Barclays declined this 
request because there were insufficient funds in her account. Miss H disagrees and says 
there were funds available. 
Barclays has sent me Miss Hs statements from the time of the request. The balance was 
showed that she was in her overdraft by £1222.22 (the overdraft limit was £2000). Barclays 
say that this amount included a credit of £788.60 due to be applied to the account that hadnt 
yet cleared. Meaning that Miss Hs balance was still over the agreed overdraft limit and there 
were no available funds in the account. 
Because Miss Hs account was over the limit, Barclays declined the request for emergency 
funds. And so I think Barclays acted fairly in declining Miss Hs request on this occasion. 
Barclays declined Miss Hs request for an emergency card on 18 February 2019. Barclays 
dont offer this service, and this is the reason for the decline. I cant ask Barclays to change 
their processes, this isnt for me to do. And so I dont think it was unreasonable of them to 
decline this request.
On 18 February 2019, Miss H made another request for emergency cash. At this point, Miss 
H had sufficient available credit, and so Barclays approved the request.
The transaction was eventually declined by the third party. From the notes Ive seen, this is 
because Miss H couldnt provide the identification required to withdraw the funds. And so I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for the processes of other businesses. As Ive said, Barclays 
accepted the request, so I cant fairly say it did anything wrong here. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think Barclays have acted fairly. And so Im not going to ask 
it to do anything more for Miss H.
My final decision
Foe the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman