DRN-3658426
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim she made 
under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs As garage was damaged when a neighbours tree collapsed onto it. Mrs A made a 
claim to her insurer AXA. AXA accepted the claim. It said it would settle Mrs As claim once 
the tree had been removed from Mrs As property. 
Mrs A made an arrangement with her neighbour to pay 50% of the costs to remove the tree 
altogether which came to £2,460. So Mrs A said she paid £1,230. 
Mrs A told AXA that her neighbours insurer settled their claim by reimbursing the neighbour 
for the 50% of the removal costs theyd paid. Mrs A believed AXA should do the same under 
her claim. 
AXA said it wasnt responsible for covering any of the costs to remove the tree. It said this 
was the neighbours responsibility. As a goodwill gesture AXA said it would make a payment 
of £500 to Mrs A to go toward the costs she agreed to share with the neighbour. 
Mrs A was unhappy with AXAs decision and she was also unhappy with the service shed 
received during the claim. So she made a complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said it hadnt provided a poor service. And it said it 
had correctly dealt with her claim. So Mrs A asked us to look at things for her. 
Our Investigator didnt find AXA had provided a poor service. But he didnt think the way 
AXA had settled the claim was fair to Mrs A. He thought AXA should ensure as part of the 
claim that effective and long lasting repairs are carried out. In order for AXA to do this, the 
tree had to be removed from Mrs As property. So he thought it was unfair for Mrs A to bear 
the costs of the contribution she agreed to pay toward the removal of the tree. If AXA 
believes the neighbour as a third party is responsible for the costs to remove the tree, the 
Investigator thought it could look to recover the costs it reimburses Mrs A for from the 
neighbours insurer. 
The Investigator thought Mrs A had been impacted by AXAs decision not to meet these 
costs and this had caused her distress and worry. For this he recommended AXA pay Mrs A 
£100 compensation. 
Mrs A accepted the Investigators findings. AXA didnt agree. In summary it says Mrs A could 
have arranged for the part of the tree causing damage to her property to be removed for 
£500 or less. AXA says part of the agreed costs appear to be to remove the remainder of the 
tree from the neighbours property which isnt something AXA is liable for. AXA says the 
neighbour arranged for the tree to be removed at the root which wasnt required in order to 
deal with Mrs As claim and so isnt a cost AXA can look to recover from the neighbours 
insurer. 
AXA says its decision to pay £500 is fair as this is the amount it would have cost to remove 
the part of the tree from Mrs As garage to allow repairs to take place under the claim. 
So AXA wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the notes of a call between the Loss Adjuster (LA) instructed by AXA and Mrs 
A on 4 March 2022. The notes read that Mrs A called to clarify the next steps of her claim. 
The LAs notes read:
agreed ph to get estimate for garage and then we will consider CBC for cost 
analysis and to review conservatory with look to offer a cash settlement for this.
Ph queried tree removal, - tree hasnt damaged neighbours property and therefore 
their insurance wont pay for it - advised not her tree so we cannot pay. Agreed tree 
removal not covered but we could look to offer a contribution for the trunk removal off 
the building only so that we can complete works, this wouldnt cover the tree to be cut 
and removed. £500 to be paid.
Its not clear from the notes provided whether Mrs A had already agreed to pay 50% of the 
costs to remove the tree at this stage. But I cannot see from the information provided by 
AXA if the LA offered any assistance to Mrs A in arranging for the part of the tree that had 
damaged Mrs As property to be removed in order to carry out repairs. It seems the LA 
asked Mrs A to provide quotes and was waiting for receipt of these with a view to making a 
cash settlement. 
AXA says it would have cost Mrs A £500 to arrange for removal of the part of the tree 
needed in order to carry out repairs. But I dont think it fair that this was left for Mrs A to 
negotiate with her neighbour. I think the LA should have done more to assist in proactively 
settling the claim and carry out effective and long lasting repairs. I dont think it unreasonable 
for AXA to include the costs of removing the debris that caused the damage for a claim it 
accepted, rather than leave this for Mrs A to deal with outside of the claim. 
We look at what is fair and reasonable as well as what the policy says. In this case, I think a 
fairer outcome is for AXA to reimburse Mrs A - subject to reasonable proof - in full for the 
costs she shared with the neighbour to remove the tree from her garage in order for AXA to 
settle the claim. I think it should pay interest on the reimbursed amount from the date Mrs A 
paid to the date it reimburses her. 
I think AXAs decision not to do this has caused Mrs A distress and worry at an already 
stressful time. So I think AXA should pay Mrs A £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the 
following:
Reimburse Mrs A for the remaining costs she shared with her neighbour to 
remove the tree so that repairs could take place - subject to reasonable proof. 
Pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date Mrs A paid to the date AXA reimburses her. 
Pay Mrs A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience AXA caused. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman