DRN-4455463
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined a claim under her home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B had a home emergency policy with AWP. She contacted AWP after a leak developed 
in a pipe behind a tiled wall in her bathroom shower. The leak had caused the water 
pressure to drop and that in turn had damaged her boiler.
Mrs B says when her husband spoke to AWP, it advised him to call out an emergency 
plumber to repair the leak and said they would be reimbursed. The emergency plumber 
charged £1,190 to trace and locate the leak. When she later contacted AWP for 
reimbursement of the costs, she was told she wasnt covered after all.
AWP says its agent advised her that her policy didnt cover trace and access work to make 
the pipe accessible but she might be covered under her home insurance policy for that. They 
said once the pipe was accessible, they would send someone out to attend to the leak.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He was satisfied that the policy terms didnt cover trace and access costs. He also didnt 
think AWP had told her to get her own plumber to repair the leak. 
Mrs B disputes that the pipe was inaccessible.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Bs policy document to see what cover is provided. It says its an 
emergency policy designed to provide rapid, expert help if the policyholder suffers from an 
emergency arising from an incident covered by the policy. In that situation it says it will 
arrange for one of its approved contractors to attend and take action to stabilise the 
emergency.
The policy says it doesnt cover any repair that requires trace and access works to be 
completed or costs it hasnt authorised. The policy defines trace and access as The 
process of identifying and locating the source of the emergency or gaining the necessary 
access to resolve the emergency.
I know Mrs B disputes that trace and access works were required. But I have listened to the 
call when she and her husband first contacted AWP. They referred a number of times to the 
leak being behind the bathroom wall and that the bathroom wall was tiled. They said they 
could hear the leak but not see it. I dont think based on what it was told AWP treated them 
unfairly in advising them that trace and access work was required before it could send 
someone to attend to the leak. I also note that the invoice from the emergency plumber 
refers to tracing and locating the leak.
Im also satisfied that the policy doesnt cover unauthorised costs and Im not convinced that 
AWP did authorise the costs which Mrs B has claimed for. In the telephone call referred to 
above it referred a number of times to Mrs B arranging access to the source of the leak 
behind the wall after which it would send someone out to look at the leak. At no point in that 
call did it say or suggest that it would reimburse the cost of Mrs Bs own plumber repairing 
the leak.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but unfortunately for her I dont think AWPs decision to decline 
the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman