DRN-4151446
The complaint
Mr R complains U K Insurance Limited has handled his property insurance claim poorly. 
For simplicity Ive referred to UKIs agents and contractors actions as being its own.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr R made a claim against his UKI insurance policy when his property 
suffered water ingress. UKI accepted the claim. After investigation, it was found the problem 
resulted from issues with Mr Rs neighbours drains. UKI began reinstatement work after the 
neighbour confirmed action had been taken to resolve the problem. But in October 2021, the 
property experienced further water ingress. In November 2022 there was a third incident.  
In November 2021 Mr R complained about various aspects of how UKI had handled the 
claim  including its failure to request a drainage report from his neighbour. UKI issued a 
final response letter in February 2022. Its response included accepting it had made a 
mistake by not requesting the report. UKI offered £250 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience this caused  but said it wasnt responsible for any additional damage. Finally 
it said it had appointed solicitors to consider recovering claim costs from Mr Rs neighbour. 
Later in 2022 Mr R raised a further complaint. UKI issued a further final response in 
December 2022. It said it had previously explained to him why it had decided against 
pursuing recovery of claims costs from the neighbour  it felt it couldnt hold him to be 
negligent. It said there had been a delay in dealing with snagging issues due to weather  
but they would be dealt with. UKI didnt accept it had taken too long to appoint a surveyor to 
consider the third ingress. Finally it said there would be no additional costs or terms to 
Mr Rs insurance resulting from increased claim costs. 
In January 2023 Mr R came to this service. Hes raised various concerns with UKIs handling 
of the claim and the time taken to resolve it. These include not being advised if theres a 
chance of cost recovery from his neighbour. Hes said if UKI had obtained a forensic report 
at the outset, rather than two years in, its likely the causation and liability would have been 
determined and appropriate works carried out to prevent the further incidents. 
To resolve his complaint he said he would like the cause of the problem and its rectification 
addressed proactively  and a completion report issued. He would like to be compensated 
for the time and effort hes put into the issue. He doesnt accept £250 to be enough. Finally 
he requested for his future policy terms or premiums not to be affected by UKIs poor claim 
handling. 
In April 2023 our Investigator issued his opinion. He said as Mr R had come to this service 
more than six months after the February 2022 final response had been issued this service is 
unable to consider the issues it covered. He explained he would consider events after that 
date. 
The Investigator felt UKI had acted reasonably when deciding not to try to recover claim 
costs from Mr Rs neighbour. He felt it had appointed a surveyor in reasonable time following 
the most recent water ingress in October 2022. He was of the opinion UKI had caused 
unavoidable delays regarding snagging issues and had communicated poorly at points. He 
recommended it pay Mr R £350 compensation in recognition. UKI accepted that outcome.  
But as Mr R didnt the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I agree that Mr R referred his complaint to this Service more than six months after the 
February 2022 final response. I havent seen any exceptional circumstances that stopped 
him from coming to us in time. So Im unable to consider the issues and concerns addressed 
in that complaint. In line with the Investigator Ive considered Mr Rs complaint points 
relevant to the December 2022 final response. Mr R raised a further complaint with UKI. It 
responded in July 2023. Issues raised and addressed relevant to that complaint will be 
considered in a separate complaint with this Service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs frustration appears to be with the time taken to resolve the claim  and the repeated 
incidents of ingress. So Ive tried to look at the aspects of his complaint, that I can consider, 
from that perspective. As this is an informal service, Im not going to respond here to every 
complaint point or piece of evidence from Mr R. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both Mr R and UKI that I have 
considered everything provided.
Mr R made the point that had a forensic report been commissioned, by UKI, much earlier 
than it has been further loss may have been prevented. Hes also frustrated the insurer didnt 
appoint a surveyor earlier in the claim. In response it said there wasnt any evidence to 
suggest, earlier in the claim, that there was a need to do so. 
Overall I havent seen enough to persuade me UKI failed to make appointments at 
reasonable points in the claim. It seems to have appointed specialists at appropriate and 
reasonable times - based on the need as it understood it at the time. 
I understand why Mr R would like his claim resolved as soon as possible. I can see UKI has 
taken further steps to find out the cause and identify a resolution  by appointing the forensic 
specialist. Im satisfied, up to the point in the timeline Ive considered, that UKIs taken 
reasonable steps to deal with the claim.
I can see UKI has previously advised Mr R that it decided not to pursue recovery of costs 
from his neighbour. Its referred to a lack of negligence from the neighbour, with him having 
taken steps to resolve the drainage problem. Based on what Ive seen I cant say UKI made 
an unreasonable decision.  
UKI explained to Mr R that he wont face any increased premium or amendments to his 
policy due to additional claim costs resulting from its mishandling of the claim. I havent 
found that its mishandled the claim in any significant way. So I couldnt fairly require UKI to 
take steps, like amend claim records or pay relevant compensation.   
UKI accepted our Investigators recommendation it pay £350 compensation. This was 
primarily to recognise the impact of delays to completion of snagging works and poor 
communication. Ive considered Mr Rs description of the impact of this claim on him and his family. This 
includes being without the full use of various rooms. Hes also referred to the impact the 
claim has had on his relationship with the neighbour. Unfortunately claims of this nature 
often have a significant impact on those involved. They can take time to resolve, particularly 
where matters are dependent on a third party. 
But I can only award compensation to recognise any unnecessary or additional distress and 
inconvenience an insurers responsible for. I dont have the remit to fine or punish. I agree 
£350 is a fair amount for UKI to pay to recognise the additional distress and inconvenience 
its responsible for (for the issues and period Ive considered for this complaint). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr R £350 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman