DRN-2459412
The complaint
Ms W complains about end of contract charges when her hire purchase agreement for a car 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance 
ended.
What happened
In March 2016, Ms W entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement with Mercedes. 
When the agreement ended, in March 2019, the car was inspected shortly before its 
collection and a report prepared.
Ms W says the car was in an immaculate condition, having been the subject of a re-spray 
not long before it was inspected. She says that the agent collecting the car remarked on its 
excellent condition. However, Ms W says that two marks were pointed out to her at the time 
of the inspection, one on the rear bumper and the other on the right-hand quarter panel. She 
says she thought both scratches werent really obvious, were very small and could be 
considered as fair wear and tear.
The inspector included these marks in the condition report for the car and asked Ms W to 
sign and note that she disagreed with what hed recorded, as she was clearly unhappy about 
them being noted. Ms W did as she was requested, and photos were taken of the damage 
found. The car was taken away.
Later, in March 2019, Ms W received an invoice for end of contract charges amounting to a 
total of £420 for the damage to the rear bumper and quarter panel (£210 per item). Ms W 
challenged the charges and pointed out that work had been undertaken to the car.
Mercedes asked Ms W to produce the invoice for the respray, which she did. Mercedes then 
said it wasnt able to accept the invoice, as the garage hadnt been VAT registered. Ms W 
complained to Mercedes about the charges and questioned why it wouldnt accept the 
invoice.
Mercedes didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. It said the damage to the bumper and quarter 
panel had been highlighted in the inspection report and was visible in the photos. It was 
satisfied the damage had been present at the time the car had been inspected. As the repair 
invoice wasnt date stamped Mercedes said it wasnt evidence that the car had been 
repaired between the inspection and the cars collection. 
Mercedes said that, under the agreements terms and conditions, there was an obligation on 
Ms W to compensate it for any damage to the car outside fair wear and tear. The terms also 
set out that, if the damage wasnt repaired, then Ms W would be liable for the estimated 
costs of those repairs. Mercedes said it had fairly charged Ms W for the damage that had 
been found when the car had been returned.
Ms W disagreed with Mercedes and complained to this service. She said that she had 
returned cars before which had been subject to a re-spray and had not been charged for 
their condition. She said she thought Mercedes was being unfair in having a requirement 
that invoices should come from a VAT registered garage. Ms W also said that she should 
have received invoices for any repairs that had been carried out on the car, so that 
Mercedes could prove its loss.
Ms W said she was unhappy at the length of time Mercedes had taken to respond to her 
complaint, as its final response letter had been sent in July 2019, which was after the 8 
weeks set out in its complaint process.
Our investigator didnt recommend Ms Ws complaint was upheld. He said that, when 
considering whether it was appropriate for a business to charge a consumer for damage to a 
car at the end of a financial agreement, it was useful to refer to the industry standards as to 
what was and wasnt fair wear and tear. These standards were set by using the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines. And it would be fair for a 
business to charge for any damage that was considered by the guidelines to be beyond fair 
wear and tear.
Our investigator said the scratches shown on the photos were clearly visible, and both 
exceeded the length considered as being fair wear and tear. He said he thought Mercedes 
was entitled to charge for the damage, and that this damage would have resulted in a loss 
for Mercedes. And, although he appreciated Ms W was unhappy that Mercedes didnt 
appear to have had the damage actually repaired, our investigator said he thought it was 
reasonable that it charged for the potential loss. He didnt think the amounts charged had 
been excessive.
In regard to the re-spray invoice, our investigator said that this didnt alter Mercedes right to 
charge for the damage as it had been noted at the time the car had been collected, and 
either the repairs had been unsuccessful, or the damage had occurred afterwards.
Ms W disagreed with our investigators view and said the re-sprays had been acceptable 
before, and she thought the return process had changed. Ms W said that she had been told 
the car had already been sold on by the agent who collected it, meaning that Mercedes 
wouldnt have incurred any loss over its condition. Finally, Ms W said she was unhappy at 
the length of time Mercedes had taken to respond to her complaint.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms W is unhappy at the length of time Mercedes had taken to investigate her 
complaint, but this isnt something I can look into as complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, and so is outside of my remit. The issue for me to decide is whether the end of 
contract charges were fair. However, Ive seen that Mercedes says it responded within the 8 
weeks, as Ms W had made her formal complaint in June 2019. So, although Ms W may have 
raised her queries about the end of contract charges prior to June, Mercedes hadnt treated 
those, at that time, as her making an official complaint. If Ms W is unhappy over this then 
she will need to raise it with Mercedes.
Ive seen Ms W feels strongly that the charges for the two scratches found on the car were 
unfair. She says that the photos show the damage more clearly than when looked at in real 
life. However, the agent who inspected the car for Mercedes saw them at the time of his 
inspection and also pointed them out to Ms W. As the photos dont appear to have been 
taken with a flash or filter, I think its reasonable I accept them as evidence of the damage that was found. Looking at these photos I can clearly see a scratch on the back bumper, and 
one on quarter panel, which both exceed 25mm in length. 
When looking at the BVRLA guidelines, which are accepted as the industry standard of what 
is and is not fair wear and tear, I can see scratches over 25mm are considered to be 
damage outside of fair wear and tear. So, I think it was reasonable for Mercedes to charge 
for these scratches to the cars bodywork.
Ms W says that, even if there was damage, Mercedes didnt suffer a loss as it had sold the 
car before it had been collected. I dont know what the re-sale arrangements were for the 
car, but I think its reasonable to accept that any damage to it, that was outside of fair wear 
and tear, is more likely than not to have had an impact on its value. So, I cant reasonably 
say that the bodywork damage found wasnt a potential loss to Mercedes. And I think its 
reasonable for Mercedes to have charged Ms W for that potential loss.
Under the terms and conditions of the agreement, which Ms W signed, it sets out that if 
damage is sustained by the vehicle that Mercedes reasonably consider affect the value 
then Ms W must compensate it for that loss. This term also sets out that Mercedes is not 
obliged to have the car repaired and, if it doesnt, then Ms W is still liable for the estimated 
costs of those repairs. So, the lack of any repair invoices doesnt mean Mercedes isnt 
entitled to charge for the damage.
I appreciate Ms W is upset that despite having had the car re-sprayed these charges still 
arose, and there has been some confusion as to why Mercedes asked about the re-spray 
invoice. Looking at what Mercedes has said, I think the invoice was requested to establish 
whether the car had been repaired between its inspection and the collection, which was not 
the case. I think the issue of VAT registration wasnt really relevant to the issue and appears 
to have caused some confusion. However, looking at the evidence, I am satisfied the car 
had the damage described in the reports when it was collected, and this damage did not fall 
within the criteria of being fair wear and tear. As set out by our investigator, either the re-
spray hadnt repaired the scratches, or the scratches happened after the re-spray but before 
the car was collected.
Ive seen Ms W says that the collection process has changed, but I think this is just because 
this time damage was found on the car when that hadnt happened previously. I havent 
seen anything that would suggest the inspection/collection process didnt follow the usual 
steps.
Looking at the amount of the charges, I cant reasonably say they are unfair and excessive. 
They appear to be in line with similar charges that Ive seen.
So, although I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Ms W, I am not upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman