DRN-4114937
The complaint
Miss M complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled her after the event 
insurance policy claim poorly. 
What happened
In September 2022 Miss Ms car was involved in a collision with a third-party car. Her motor 
insurance policy was third-party, fire and theft only  so wouldnt cover damage to her own 
car. She was offered, and took out, an AA after the event insurance (ATE) policy. Under the 
policy AA would cover some claim costs, including for repair of her car and provision of a 
hire car, and seek recovery from third-partys insurer (TPI).  
AA took possession of Miss Ms car. It provided her with a hire car. AAs engineer assessed 
the car as a total loss. The policy doesnt cover total loss, so AA didnt pay her for the loss of 
the car. Instead AA proposed a total loss settlement to seek from the TPI. That was around 
£5,300, with a £1,006 deduction if Miss M wished to keep the salvage. She wasnt happy 
with that valuation. In response AA said it could seek that amount from the TPI on her behalf 
or alternatively she could choose to pursue the claim through her own motor insurer. Miss M 
went on to accept the valuation AA had proposed. 
 
Months later, not having received a settlement for her car, complained to AA. It responded in 
January 2023 explaining her ATE policy doesnt cover total losses. It explained that it had 
been chasing the TPI for it to make payment. 
Unsatisfied with AAs handling of matters Miss M came to this service. She was unhappy her 
claim for her car hasnt been settled. She feels AA made a total loss settlement offer, but 
then withdrew it. To resolve her complaint she would like AA to settle the loss of her car and 
pay her compensation. 
In April 2022 our Investigator considered Miss Ms complaint. He explained her AA policy 
doesnt cover total loss payments. He said the TPI is responsible for paying the settlement. 
He said he couldnt find AA to blame for her not having received payment for her car. He 
explained AA provided a hire car whilst seeking settlement of her claim, so had done what it 
was required to do under the terms of her policy. Miss M didnt accept that outcome. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
When Miss Ms car was returned by AAs storage provider, she was unhappy with its 
condition. I havent considered that issue in this decision. Thats because, as far as Im 
aware, she hasnt raised her concern with AA. If she would like this service to look at that 
issue, she needs to allow AA the opportunity to respond first.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Miss M and AA provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything Ive 
been given.
I can see Miss Ms been frustrated by her interactions with AA. That seems to have arisen 
from some confusion over its role in this process and the terms of the insurance policy she 
holds with it.   
The ATE policy isnt a standard motor insurance policy. Miss M held one of those with a 
different insurer. Her AA ATE policy covers certain costs when the policyholder has been in 
a road accident they werent at fault for. These include recovery, storage, repair and hire 
charges. 
However under What is not covered: the terms include the value of your vehicle if your 
vehicle is a total loss. So AA is correct when it says the total loss isnt covered by the policy. 
So that meant AA wasnt, under the policy, required to pay her a total loss settlement.
In line with the policy AA arranged a hire car for Miss M. It sought recovery of its cost from 
the TPI. At the same time it proposed, to the TPI, a total loss settlement it should pay 
Miss M. AA did explain this process in its correspondence, although it perhaps could have 
been clearer.   
I havent seen that AA did say it would pay Miss Ms total loss amount and then withdraw 
that offer. Instead it proposed a settlement it would request the TPI pay her. Payment was 
always dependent on the TPI settling the claim.  
It seems Miss M still hasnt received a payment. AA did initially contact the wrong insurer. 
Miss M had a hire car during this period, so she wasnt caused much inconvenience by that 
mistake. Following that AAs made reasonable efforts to pursue its claim, for the hire costs, 
against the correct TPI. And in its letters, it requested the TPI settle her total loss claim 
directly.     
Frustrated with progress, Miss M contacted the TPI directly. She reported it refusing to open 
a claim for her as AA was already pursuing the total loss payment for her. There seems to 
have been some confusion on the part of the TPI here. AAs letters to the TPI ask it to pay 
her directly. It wasnt seeking to receive payment of the total loss settlement itself  just its 
hire car costs. In any event it seems, from recent communication between the TPI and AA, 
that this confusion has been cleared up. 
Finally Ive considered if Miss M may have lost out by using AAs ATE policy, rather than 
claiming against the TPI through her own motor insurance policy. She didnt have 
comprehensive cover. That means her insurer wouldnt have paid for any loss or damage to 
her car, nor covered any hire car costs. So I cant fairly say she would have been in a better 
position if she hadnt been offered the ATE policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Miss M for the loss of her vehicle or any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman