DRN-4091594
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions wont refund
money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Monese is an agent of PrePay Technologies. As Mr Bs customer relationship is with
Monese, Ive referred to Monese, rather than PrePay Technologies, throughout this decision.
On 24 September 2022 Mr B received a call from someone claiming to be from HMRC, they 
told him a warrant was out for his arrest regarding discrepancies in tax, and potential fraud. 
They said theyd written to him several times but that as he had not responded he was now 
at risk of arrest. Mr B was asked to provide details to verify his identity. Mr B was then told 
hed be receiving a call from the Ministry of Justice, he checked the number hed been told 
they would be calling from, and it did appear to be a legitimate Ministry of Justice phone 
number.
The caller claiming to be from the Ministry of Justice told Mr B there were various charges 
against him and that he would need to pay several sums regarding these charges, but that 
the money would be returned to him when he had proved his innocence. Mr B was told he 
was under surveillance and should download a program to his devices so that his calls and 
activity could be monitored. 
Mr B was told to make one payment from his current account with another bank, he was 
then told to make all the remaining payments from his Monese account. In total he made ten 
payments to the scammers, the payment from his current account (which has already been 
refunded to him) and nine payments from his Monese account. The payments he made were 
to another account held at Monese by a third party.
When the refunds hed been promised didnt happen and Mr B was unable to get back in 
touch with the person hed spoken to, he realised he had been the victim of a scam. Mr B 
reported what had happened to the police, and tried to contact Monese by phone, when he 
was unable to get through to them, he emailed Monese. Monese ultimately confirmed that it 
would not be refunding any of the payments to Mr B as it had been unable to recover any of 
the funds.
Mr B was unhappy with Moneses response, so he referred his complaint to our service. One 
of our Investigators looked into what had happened, they thought that Monese should have 
found the payments Mr B made to be suspicious and so asked questions about the nature of 
the payments before allowing them to take place. They considered that if Monese had done 
this then some of Mr Bs loss would have been prevented.
Monese didnt agree. It said that, while it agreed the payments were out of character, Mr B 
was given multiple warnings about the possibility of scams but still chose to go ahead with 
the payments. It also noted that all the funds had been withdrawn by the recipient before 
Mr B notified it of the scam, so it could not have recovered any of the funds.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position is that Mr B is responsible for transactions hes carried out
himself (even as a result of deception). However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Monese should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The amounts and timing of the payments Mr B made to the scammers were as follows:
£1.01 11:18 am
£1,591 11:24 am
£1,200 11:50 am
£600 12:47 am
£700 12:51 am 
£90 13:24 pm 
£800 13:27 pm
£700 13:36 pm 
£903.29 13:39 pm 
In this case Im satisfied that Monese should have contacted Mr B before allowing the third
payment to proceed. It was the third payment made to a new payee within approximately 
half an hour, the first payment had been for a very small amount, but by the third payment it 
was clear that Mr B was making large payments to this new payee which he was funding 
with large deposits from his own accounts elsewhere and with deposits from third parties. 
Although we have only a limited transaction history for Mr Bs account, his payments were 
consistently low value. So I think there was enough going on here that the unusual activity 
should have flagged to Monese that something potentially untoward was happening.
Monese says that it did give Mr B warnings, which he chose to ignore, and it has provided 
examples of the kinds of warnings he would have seen. But those warnings are not detailed 
and are extremely generic, I dont think they would have done enough to flag to Mr B that he 
could be the victim of a scam. If Monese had contacted Mr B directly and asked him 
appropriate questions about what was happening, I think its likely the scam could have been 
uncovered at this stage, preventing any further financial loss. I say this because Mr B does not appear to have been told that Monese was involved in any 
fraudulent activity  he was actually told the opposite, that Monese was the only bank he 
used that was not involved in fraud  nor does it seem that the fraudsters prepared him for 
any intervention from Monese. I therefore consider it likely that he would have been open 
and honest with Monese if he had been asked more searching questions about what was 
going on.
Im also not persuaded that Mr B should bear any responsibility for what happened. I can
understand why, as a layperson, he would have been worried by the calls that appeared to 
be from HMRC and the Ministry of Justice, and he took steps to verify that the number he 
was being called from was a legitimate government number. Mr B was not aware of the 
possibility that such a phone number could be spoofed by a third party, so I understand why 
he found this to be compelling. And Mr Bs particular circumstances  he had moved house 
twice relatively recently and so felt it was likely he had missed post, and had been working in 
roles where he had not been asked to pay tax  meant that what he was being told by the 
scammers was believable to him.
I note what Monese has said about not being able to recover the funds, but given that I think 
Monese could have prevented the scam if it had stepped in when the third payment was 
requested, the attempted recovery of the funds is not relevant to my findings.
With all of this in mind, my final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and Monese 
should refund the disputed payments from the third transaction onwards. 
In relation to interest, I think Monese should pay 8% simple interest per annum on £196 of 
this amount, as it was Mr Bs own money (rather than money he had borrowed from friends) 
and would likely have been used for day-to-day spending. I am not recommending that 
Monese pay interest on the remaining amount.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Monese should:
- pay Mr B £4993.29, representing his loss from payment three onwards
- pay 8% simple interest per annum on the £196 of Mr Bs own funds, calculated from 
24 September 2022 until this complaint is settled.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman