DRN-1769990
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr W made a number of transactions to a gambling merchant and won 
£30,000. However, over the following 11 days this was spent in similar gambling payments. 
Mr W says he didnt make any of the payments from after he won the £30,000.
Mr W says he never lost his card and no one else had access to it. Hed log in to the 
gambling account and his online banking using an encrypted laptop that only he knew the 
password to. He said that while the disputed transactions were going on, his laptop was in 
for repairs and so he couldnt have made the payments  though he didnt have any 
evidence of this.
Bank of Scotland held Mr W liable for the payments in dispute. They didnt see a likely way 
someone couldve accessed his laptop, online gambling account, and his card security 
details without his permission. The disputed transactions were made from Mr Ws genuine 
device address, were similar to his genuine gambling spending both beforehand and 
afterwards, and they noted he was still checking his online banking while the transactions 
were going on. They pointed out that Mr W had been hesitant to cancel the card despite the 
alleged fraud, and after getting his new card he continued to use the gambling merchant.
Mr W came to our service. He said the device addresses did not match.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He also 
couldnt find a likely way someone had made the payments without Mr Ws consent, and 
found it was more likely than not that they were made with Mr Ws authority. He found that 
the device addresses did indeed match Mr Ws genuine usage.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Bank of Scotland can hold Mr W liable for the payments in dispute if he authorised 
them.
Im satisfied from Bank of Scotlands technical evidence that the payments in dispute used 
Mr Ws genuine card security details. And I understand they were made from Mr Ws 
genuine device address, and from a valid online gambling account. Now this is not enough, on its own, for Bank of Scotland to hold Mr W liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr W consented to the transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to hold Mr W liable for the transactions in dispute on 
the basis that he consented to them. Ill explain why.
Mr W says the payments were not made from his device address, as his starts 192.168. But 
Im afraid Mr W has mixed up local, private device addresses with external ones. Im 
satisfied from Bank of Scotlands evidence that the disputed payments were made from the 
same device address as Mr Ws genuine spending and his genuine online banking. Mr W 
has said this is his encrypted laptop.
So it follows that in order to make these transactions, someone wouldve needed access to 
Mr Ws password-protected laptop, his online gambling account details, and his card security 
details. But from what Mr Ws told us, I dont see a likely way that someone wouldve had all 
of that without his knowledge or permission. Further, it seems it might have been difficult for 
a fraudster to have benefitted from this, as normally the winnings wouldve been paid back to 
Mr W.
Mr W told Bank of Scotland that he handed his laptop in for repairs in the morning before 
work. He suggested that couldve been how it was accessed. But the transactions started at 
night after he won the £30,000, and before he couldve handed the laptop in. So that 
wouldnt have been how someone accessed his laptop. Further, Mr W didnt provide any 
evidence that he had his laptop repaired at the time, despite our investigator raising this. 
I cant see any payments to a repair shop on his statements. And he was still using his 
online banking from his normal device address during the period of the disputed transactions 
 so it looks like he did have his laptop with him at the time.
Mr W checked his online banking a number of times while the disputed transactions were 
going on, where he wouldve seen his balance being far less than before. But he then waited 
to tell Bank of Scotland anything was wrong. Its difficult to see why Mr W would wait to 
report the disputed payments if they were made without his consent.
Further, some of Mr Ws online banking logins were within a few minutes of the payments he 
now disputes, and from the same device address. In other words, there were times when 
Mr W was online on his device just before or after the payments in dispute. And it seems 
very unlikely that someone was able to access his device without his consent either 
moments after he was using it; or  perhaps more implausibly  that they were able to use 
his device without his permission and then happened to return it to him just in time for him to 
use it himself, without Mr W ever noticing anything was wrong.
Mr W made genuine payments to this same merchant both before and after the disputed 
transactions. The payments in dispute are very similar to Mr Ws genuine spending. Indeed, 
I can see that Mr W was keen to get his new card working and was adamant he didnt want 
to keep the security blocks in place despite his alleged fraud issues. Then once he had 
access to his new card, he resumed making large payments to this gambling merchant 
almost straight away.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr W 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. And 
Ive not seen any compelling evidence which shows that he was defrauded here.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Ws genuine details were used. Based on the evidence, 
there isnt a likely way someone did this without his permission. But the evidence does substantially support these payments being genuine. That leaves only one likely possibility  
that Mr W made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them. This is a 
difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr W to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Bank of Scotland to refuse a refund in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman