DRN-2434841
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) have treated him 
unfairly regarding his Buy Now Pay Later agreement.
 
What happened
Mr W took out a credit agreement with Shop Direct in October 2017. 
Mr W complained that:
Following the expiry of an agreed payment freeze, his payment date for December 
was wrong.
Shop Direct would not move the date of the December payment.
Mr W was unhappy with how he had been treated.
Shop Direct said Mr W could reduce his monthly payment on one of his accounts 
following the completion of an income and expenditure but would not accept the £20 
a month he had offered as it didnt cover the full amount at the end of the 
agreements term.
Mr W was unhappy with this and asked to speak with a specialist team who understood his 
condition.
Mr Ws account has been put on hold and he is in touch with a specialist team.  
Our investigator thought Shop Direct had acted correctly and treated Mr W fairly. He couldnt 
see that any mistakes had been made in relation to the amounts, or the dates the payments 
needed to be made.
 
Our investigator explained the credit file information was correct, and that if Mr W still 
believed the income and expenditure was wrong, he could do another one with Shop Direct.
 
Our investigator also asked for audio statements to be sent to Mr W from now on and was 
pleased to know that Mr W was in contact with the specialist team who had placed his 
account on hold. 
Mr W asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, and so it has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read everything that Mr W and the business has provided, I believe Mr W is in the 
correct position with Shop Direct. I will explain why. 
Purchases and payment dates
 
I have reviewed the purchases Mr W made, and all appear to be correct. I also reviewed the 
dates that payments were due, and I cant see any mistakes there. The payments were due 
every 28 days, meaning they wouldnt be taken on the same date each month.
 
Mr W was also kept fully up to date with when the payment freezes would start, when they 
were due to end and when they had ended.
 
credit report
 
With all credit reports, companies do have to correctly and accurately report what happens 
on someones account, so Im unable to say that Shop Direct have done anything wrong 
here.
 
customer service
 
Reviewing the customer service given to Mr W, the call that took place in October could 
have gone better. The adviser could have been more helpful in allowing Mr W to go through 
his expenses, and I dont think he listened properly when Mr W explained he only needed to 
make a lower payment for a few months.
 
But I am pleased to see that Mr W is now speaking to a specialist team, who have put his 
account on hold, giving him a bit of breathing space. I understand audio statements are now 
being sent to Mr W, which will hopefully help him understand whats going with his account 
in an easier and more effective way. 
Shop Direct have said Mr W can contact them to go through a new income and expenditure 
if he feels the numbers were wrong. They have also explained that the specialist team made 
a decision to amend Mr Ws credit file for November and December. They have also 
removed the buy now pay later deferred interest charge of £279.86.
 
Overall, while I feel that the October phone call could have gone better, I believe they have 
helped him as much as theyre able to and that theyve got everything in the right place 
moving forward. Because of this I will not be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman