DRN-3894945
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, represented by their solicitors, complain that NRAM Limited treated them 
unfairly by overcharging them on their mortgage. 
Background to the complaint
In 2006, Mr and Mrs R took out an interest only mortgage with Northern Rock Plc (now 
trading as NRAM Limited). At the same time, Mr and Mrs R took out an unsecured loan 
which was linked with the mortgage. 
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R undertook a mortgage review with Northern Rock and switched their 
mortgage from interest only, to a repayment model. Northern Rock issued a mortgage offer 
on 14 August 2007 which Mr and Mrs R accepted. The offer confirmed an initial rate of 
6.55% would apply to the mortgage until 1 February 2009, after which, a variable rate 
guaranteed to be below the standard variable rate (SVR) would apply  the Guaranteed 
Rate. The terms governing the unsecured loan remained the same. 
During the 2008 financial crisis, Northern Rock was nationalised to avoid collapse of the 
bank. NRAM was later formed to manage most of the remaining Northern Rock mortgages, 
which included Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage, where it remained until it and the unsecured loan 
were redeemed in March 2019. For ease, I shall refer to NRAM for the remainder of this 
decision. 
Since Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was taken out, the Bank of England Base Rate and the 
Guaranteed Rate have operated as follows:
Effective Date Base Rate SVR Difference 
14/08/2007 5.75% 6.55%*
01/08/2007 7.84% 2.09%
06/12/2007 5.50%
01/01/2008 7.69% 2.19%
07/02/2008 5.25%
01/03/2008 7.59% 2.34%
10/04/2008 5%
01/05/2008 7.49% 2.49%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 7.34% 2.84%
06/11/2008 3%
01/12/2008 5.84% 2.84%
04/12/2008 2%
01/01/2009 5.34% 3.34%
08/01/2009 1.50%
01/02/2009 5.09%** 3.59%
05/02/2009 1%
01/03/2009 4.79% 3.79%
05/03/2009 0.50%
01/04/2009 4.79% 4.29%
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/09/2016 4.54% 4.29%
02/11/2017 0.50%
01/01/2018 4.79% 4.29%
02/08/2018 0.75%
01/10/2018 5.04% 4.29%
* Fixed rate begins
** Fixed rate ends
On 1 May 2020, Mr and Mrs Rs representatives sent a letter of complaint to NRAM on 
Mr and Mrs Rs behalf. The letter set out that Mr and Mrs R sought to claim damages in 
relation to being overcharged interest on their outstanding mortgage balance due to the 
unlawful interest rates and any variations in the interest rates charged by NRAM, formerly 
Northern Rock Plc. 
The letter set out that Mr and Mrs R consider that the mortgage offer issued on 14 August 
2007 contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). Elaborating on this point, Mr and Mrs Rs representatives 
argued:
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr and Mrs R were misled into believing 
that this rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England Base Rate, rather 
than at NRAMs discretion. 
Mr and Mrs R do not accept that the mortgage general terms and conditions, which 
defined the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract.
It is unfair to expect a consumer, such as Mr and Mrs R, to pore over the small print 
to understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that NRAM 
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The 
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for 
the purposes of UTCCR such that NRAM is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr and Mrs R did not have an effective right to 
termination due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as 
other costs associated with discharging their mortgage and switching to another 
lender. 
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage balance rather than NRAMs Guaranteed Rate. 
NRAMs actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook whereby a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And a 
breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a firm to treat customers fairly by 
assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated mortgage contract or home purchase 
plan; whether the consumer will be able to repay the sums borrowed and interest.
Mr and Mrs R seek to claim the difference between the amount of interest they paid 
on their mortgage and the amount they would have paid had it been subject to what 
they deem to be a reasonable rate. 
NRAM responded to the initial letter of complaint on 7 May 2020, disagreeing with 
Mr and Mrs Rs allegations. In summary, NRAM argued:There is no evidence to support the assertion that Mr and Mrs R were misled into 
thinking the Standard Variable Rate (SVR) would track base rate.
The SVR is clearly described in the contractual documentation which it finds does 
form part of the mortgage agreement. It considers the suggestion that Mr and Mrs R 
ought not to be expected to read the small print pertaining to their mortgage to be 
misconceived. 
It is standard industry practice to place details about the variation of the SVR in the 
terms and conditions rather than the offer letter. 
Before referring the complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs Rs representative chose to write 
to NRAM again, further detailing the complaint as follows:
It considers both a court and this service would find that a term allowing NRAM 
unilateral and unfettered ability to vary an SVR would be deemed as an unfair 
contract term within the scope of UTCCR. 
The interest variation terms lack transparency as required by EU law. 
While the mortgage contract provides a list of criteria upon which the SVR may be 
varied, the reasons given are general and vague. They do not provide the clear and 
intelligible criteria that would permit the average consumer to foresee how the 
interest rate might change in the future, resulting in the term being deemed unfair. 
The terms are not drafted in plain and intelligible language.
As a result of the variation term being deemed unfair, it would be unenforceable 
under UTCCR. Relying on case law, the representative considers it would be open to 
a UK court to imply a term under English Law requiring payment of a reasonable rate 
in place of the SVR that was applied. 
It argues that a reasonable price for the SVR rate will most likely correspond to the 
cost of funds applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs borrowing alone.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative referred their complaint to our service a few days after dating 
the above letter.  
To address the points made, NRAM chose to issue a further response on 10 November 
2020. It argues that the relevant term is not unfair for the purposes of UTCCR for several 
reasons which I have summarised:
The setting of the interest rate and payment of interest constitute essential 
obligations under the mortgage agreement, so it is doubtful that the term can be 
subject to an assessment of fairness as per Regulation 6(2) of the UTCCR.
The term does not cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations, 
to the detriment of Mr and Mrs R, contrary to the requirement of good faith. Instead, 
the term seeks to balance the rights and obligations of the parties. It highlighted 
Mr and Mrs R were guaranteed a fixed rate for approximately 18 months. After which, 
NRAM was obligated to set the variable rate below the SVR, only permitted to 
increase the SVR for five permitted reasons and obligated to give advance notice of 
any proposed change, before such change takes effect so as to give the clients an 
opportunity to consider their position.  
The inclusion of the term in the mortgage agreement was both substantively and 
procedurally fair.
The mortgage term was transparent as it set out the reasons for any variations in condition 7.2 of the general conditions and that prior notice would be given under 
condition 7.3. Furthermore, the mortgage offer set out the consequences of 
increases to interest rates to enable Mr and Mrs R to foresee the impact of variations 
in the applicable interest rate. 
The suggestion that Mr and Mrs R had no effective right of termination is misplaced. 
The ERC was not applicable when they were on the Guaranteed Rate and the 
modest discharge fee applicable should Mr and Mrs R have chosen to redeem their 
mortgage after 1 February 2009 (when the fixed period ended) was not sufficient to 
render Mr and Mrs Rs right to termination ineffective. 
NRAM has complied with Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook at all times and has 
always acted in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions. It considers its 
conduct to have been fair and reasonable. 
NRAM disputes that MCOB 11.5(1)(b) is engaged in this case.
In addition to its decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, NRAM used this letter to 
set out that it did not consider this service had the power to consider the complaint. It raised 
two key grounds for this objection:
The setting or variation of interest rates under a mortgage contract is not an activity 
that is included within the scope of the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. 
Even if the acts or omissions about which Mr and Mrs R complain did relate to 
activities to which our compulsory jurisdiction applies, the complaint has been made 
too late pursuant to the time limits set out in DISP 2.8.2(R) and Mr and Mrs R have 
not provided any reason to suggest the delay in bringing the complaint was the result 
of exceptional circumstances. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and issued an assessment concluding that 
this service could look at part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. In summary, he said:
The complaint point that, at the point of sale, Mr and Mrs R were misled into believing 
the SVR would track base rate had not been brought in time, under DISP 2.8.2(R). 
The complaint about how NRAM set and varied its SVR was an activity we could look 
at. The investigator thought that this complaint relates to acts or omissions carried on 
by NRAM and its predecessors in carrying on the specified activity of lending money 
secured by a charge on land. Providing information about the mortgage product at 
the outset and setting interest rates is an integral part of that activity. The investigator 
set out that if he was wrong about this, he was satisfied the activities could be viewed 
as an ancillary activity covered by our jurisdiction (DISP 2.3).
While he was satisfied the activity complained about was something we could 
consider, the investigator noted he still needed to consider whether Mr and Mrs R 
had raised this part of their complaint in time pursuant to DISP 2.8.2(R).
The complaint was raised on 1 May 2020, so the investigator concluded that a 
complaint about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years 
prior to this, had been raised in time. Which would be from 1 May 2014 onward. So, 
he was satisfied that he could consider whether the sums charged from 1 May 2014 
onward were fair and reasonable. 
He noted that DISP 2.8.2(R) has two parts, the second providing for a scenario 
where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than six years after the event 
complained of. Specifying such a complaint must be brought within three years from 
the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint. But he thought Mr and Mrs R ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause for complaint from May 2009 at the latest (given 
their mortgage had reverted to the variable rate in February 2009 and had not 
tracked the well-publicised base rate falls). So, he didnt think this gave them any 
more time. 
The investigator set out that when considering the fairness of the interest rate 
charged from 1 May 2014 onward, he will need to take account of previous variations 
of the interest rate in order to determine whether the rate charged during the period 
he can look at is fair. He will also need to consider whether the variation clause is 
itself an unfair term as a matter of law. He concluded both of these things were part 
of all the circumstances of the case that he is required to consider under the DISP 
rules and are relevant to whether the interest charged from 1 May 2014 onward is fair 
and reasonable. 
The investigator clarified that in the event he recommends any redress, he will only 
be able to award for the period that is in scope of this complaint  1 May 2014 
onward. 
Mr and Mrs R accepted our investigators findings on our jurisdiction. 
NRAM responded to say it did not agree the complaint raised by Mr and Mrs R falls within 
the compulsory jurisdiction of the ombudsman service. But it also considers the merits of 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint to be without merit, so it was content with this service 
investigating and determining the substance of the complaint. However, it reserved its 
position on whether the complaint falls within our jurisdiction and may choose to submit 
further arguments on this point if it deems it necessary to do so. 
The investigator went on to assess the merits of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, limited to the 
scope previously identified in his jurisdiction assessment. Ive summarised his findings 
below:
NRAM was not required to set out all the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
contract in a single document. There are good reasons why general terms and 
conditions would be in a separate document to an individual consumers offer. 
The mortgage represented a substantial liability and a consumer ought reasonably to 
be treated as if they had read all the information provided with the mortgage offer, 
including the associated terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage contract did not commit to track the Bank of England Base 
Rate, they were made sufficiently aware of its terms and that NRAM has sought to 
charge interest in accordance with those terms. 
The SVR applied from May 2014 onwards was not set in a vacuum, but rather was 
the product of earlier decisions. So, it is necessary to consider how the SVR was 
varied to reach a decision about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. 
The variation clauses relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, rather the price itself. So, they are not a core term and their fairness can be 
assessed. 
The investigator was not persuaded at a general level that the relevant terms satisfy 
the wider transparency requirements. While he thought they were easy to follow 
grammatically, the terms are broad and the circumstances in which changes might 
be made give NRAM significant discretion about when it could make changes to the 
SVR and by how much. He found the reasons for variation to be wider than 
reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose and to be so subjective that they do not explain to the consumer the method for determining the new price. 
He thought it would be difficult for a customer to understand the basis and mechanics 
for any decisions taken that relied on those terms, to be able to understand the 
economic consequences of entering into the agreement and, if necessary, to 
challenge a variation made in reliance on them. 
The investigator did not think national law would imply a term that gave a lender such 
wide discretion. So he was satisfied that they cause a significant imbalance between 
the parties and he didnt think a hypothetical consumer would have agreed to a term 
that enabled the lender to increase the SVR payable on their mortgage for such 
subjective and imprecise reasons. 
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Mr and Mrs R dissolving the contract, the investigator noted 
that NRAM were only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So, 
Mr and Mrs R would have only had to pay the discharge fee (approx. £295) and other 
associated switching costs if they chose to move to another lender. The investigator 
didnt think these were a significant barrier to exit and instead were costs a borrower 
could incur if they ever sought to switch lender. 
However, there were special conditions attached to the unsecured loan linked to 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage that may have made it more difficult for them to re-
mortgage elsewhere. The unsecured loan had a de-linking premium whereby they 
would have had to pay an additional rate of 5% on the unsecured loan if they moved 
the mortgage elsewhere but were not able to refinance the loan. The investigator 
thought it wouldve been reasonably foreseeable that it might have been difficult to 
refinance the unsecured personal loan as well as the mortgage. So, he was satisfied 
that this was a foreseeable and significant practical barrier to Mr and Mrs R 
dissolving the contract and had the potential to lead to unfairness. 
He thought a court may have a proper basis to conclude that, the combination of the 
breadth of the SVR variation terms and the potentially significant practical barriers to 
exit, meant that elements of the SVR variations terms were unfair. But set out this 
doesnt mean there has been an unfairness. He noted he was required to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That includes, but is not limited 
to, relevant law. 
He set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr and Mrs R experienced 
because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. And the need 
to consider whether NRAM had exercised the terms fairly. 
He found SVRs to serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for 
future changes and allow borrowers flexibility.   
The investigator was not persuaded NRAM varied the rate unfairly. 
Between August 2007 and April 2009, the SVR only reduced  but the difference 
between the SVR and the base rate increased. The Investigator doesnt think a term 
that reduces the rate, and therefore the amount of interest Mr and Mrs R would pay 
each month, is likely to be unfair as a matter of law. 
Significant change occurred during this period because of the global financial crisis 
(GFC). This impacted the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes 
to several lenders interest rates charged across the market at the time. In addition, 
NRAM required government assistance in the form of a loan during this time which it 
had to repay as quickly as possible. 
NRAM reduced its SVR in light of the base rate reductions  but not to the same 
proportion, leading to the difference between the two increasing. However, it has evidenced that this was not an arbitrary decision or purely to increase its own profits 
as alleged by the representative. And instead, was NRAM balancing its financial 
position and obligations at the time with the impact any changes would have on its 
customers. Given these factors, and that the terms did not obligate NRAM to track 
base rate, the investigator did not think that the changes to the interest rate in this 
period resulted in unfair treatment of Mr and Mrs R. 
After 2010, the only changes made to the SVR were in line with changes made to the 
base rate, and so the margin between the SVR and the base rate during that period 
has remained the same. NRAM has shown the SVR was continually reviewed during 
this time and it had regard to the changes being made by other lenders and its 
continuing obligations under the Government loan. During that period, the interest on 
the Government loan was directly set by reference to base rate, and that resulted in 
NRAMs costs becoming more in line with those movements, hence it made the 
changes to the SVR in line with changes to base rate. 
So, while the terms do provide NRAM with a significant amount of discretion in 
regard to when or whether to vary the SVR on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage - the 
investigator didnt think this had resulted in Mr and Mrs R being treated unfairly. 
NRAM responded to say it agreed with the investigators assessment but reserved its right to 
make further submissions on the complaint should it proceed to an ombudsman. 
Mr and Mrs R responded via their representative to say they were very disappointed in the 
outcome reached and would like their case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Their 
representative asked a series of questions, which our investigator went on to address, and 
made several comments which I have summarised as:
The assessment did not address the fairness of the unsecured loan, the interest rate 
of the loan or the implications of the mortgage redeeming prior to that loan being 
redeemed. 
In relation to the fairness of the SVR, and whether NRAM treated Mr and Mrs R fairly, 
it provided independent, expert evidence which confirms that the cost of funds 
dropped following the financial crisis. This contradicts NRAMs evidence. The 
investigator has not confirmed if he relied on this report and if so, what weight he put 
on it. Similarly, the representative has not had sight of the evidence provided to the 
ombudsman service by NRAM, so neither it nor the expert are able to comment on or 
disprove it. 
The investigator has confirmed that NRAMs commercial strategy during the financial 
crisis was impacted by the Government loan and the need to repay the loan as 
quickly as possible. It appears inconceivable that NRAM were not driven by a desire 
to repay that loan as quickly as possible, which required increasing their profits, and 
the means to do so was by maintaining an SVR rate above the industry norm and the 
base rate. This amounts to pure profiteering. 
It strongly challenges the investigators conclusion that NRAM had regard to the 
impact any changes would have on its customers, and balanced that reasonably with 
its financial position and obligations at the time. 
Our investigator sent a letter to both parties, endorsing his previous assessment letter and 
responding to the queries raised by Mr and Mrs Rs representative. Ive summarised his key 
points below:
Each time NRAM varied the interest rate, it was prompted by a change in the Bank of 
England Base Rate. But the amount by which NRAM varied the SVR was linked to its 
cost of funds and obligations under the Government loan it had received. He did consider the expert report which it believes shows cost of funding dropped 
following the financial crisis. But other independent sources, such as the Bank of 
England and the FCA have explained historically the impact the crisis had on 
mortgage lenders costs of funds. And from weighing up all the evidence, he was 
persuaded that, generally, the difference between base rate and lenders costs of 
funding increased during the 2008-2009 period. 
Our service is free to receive evidence in confidence from the parties when 
appropriate. And it would not be appropriate to share some of the information NRAM 
has sent us about the decision process behind the rate changes throughout the 
relevant period. 
The Government loan came with conditions and NRAM had to ensure it was not 
distorting competition in the market by, for example, charging rates that were overly 
competitive compared to other lenders. This was a legitimate factor to take into 
account. 
He was not persuaded NRAMs intention was to make significant profits, but rather to 
reduce its balance sheet (by encouraging as many customers as possible to redeem 
their mortgages) so that the Government loan could be repaid. 
As more customers redeemed their mortgage, the level of risk associated with 
NRAMs mortgage book was greater, and that further played a part in its overall 
pricing strategy to ensure it remained solvent and able to meet its obligations. 
Overall, having seen the considerations NRAM had regard to when making decisions 
to vary the SVR, the investigator was satisfied it took legitimate and justifiable 
business decisions, balancing its prudential requirements, obligations as a result of 
the Government loan and the need to treat its customers fairly.
Looking at the rates charged across the whole market at the time, the investigator did 
not consider the rate to be unfairly high. 
The existence of Mr and Mrs Rs unsecured loan was considered by the investigator 
to the extent that it impacted his analysis of whether the interest rate variation terms 
could be considered unfair as a matter of law. But any concerns about the fairness of 
the loan would be a separate matter that would need to be dealt with as a 
freestanding complaint. 
The investigator confirmed that he would pass the case to an ombudsman for a final 
decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they would 
like the ombudsman to consider by 9 December 2022. 
Quanta Law did not make any further representations. 
NRAM responded to say that it agreed with the overall outcome reached by the investigator. 
However, it disagreed with the conclusion that the relevant terms could be subject to an 
assessment of fairness as per UTCCR. 
It considers the investigator to have misapplied case law, introduced irrelevant 
considerations when determining whether the relevant terms meet the requirement for 
transparency and to have failed to provide factual evidence to support his conclusion 
Mr and Mrs R faced a significant barrier to exit the contract.
NRAM also provided a report assessing the fairness of its SVR by Grant Thornton. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision. What Ive decided  and why
NRAM disputed our jurisdiction on two key grounds:
1. The activity complained of is not one that falls within the compulsory jurisdiction of 
this service.
2. Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is out of time pursuant to DISP 2.8.2R.
Setting and changing interest rates is part and parcel of the activity of lending money 
secured by a charge on land and if Im wrong about that, it is at least, ancillary to that 
activity. So, I am satisfied our service has the power to consider the activity Mr and Mrs R 
have complained about (DISP 2.3).  
In respect of whether the complaint was brought in time, Im satisfied I have the jurisdiction 
to consider the complaint from 1 May 2014. Complaints about charges before this date are 
out of time as per DISP 2.8.2R. 
In considering the fairness of interest charged from 1 May 2014 onwards, I need to consider 
the whole history of the interest rate, including before 1 May 2014. That is because each 
time NRAM made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained at that revised level 
until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of the level resulting from 
the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from May 2014 is the sum of the parts 
of the history that went before. And if any of those parts were themselves potentially unfair, 
that might mean that the SVR charged from May 2014 is itself unfair. 
I will also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term as a matter 
of law. Both of those things are part of all the circumstances of the case that Im required to 
consider under the DISP rules and are potentially relevant to whether interest charged from 
1 May 2014 onwards is fair and reasonable. 
The courts have confirmed (since NRAMs objection) the correctness of this approach to our 
jurisdiction in cases like this. And, given my conclusions on the merits, it doesnt ultimately 
affect the outcome of the complaint, so I dont propose to comment on jurisdiction further. 
  
In deciding the merits of this case, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I am required by 
DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address everypoint that has been raised.
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs R. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help them to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised many individual complaint points both to NRAM 
directly and to this service. However, like the investigator, I consider their overall complaint 
to break down into two key points:
1. Mr and Mrs R had an expectation that their mortgage would track the Bank of 
England Base Rate once it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, NRAM 
has treated them unfairly. 
2. NRAM has not varied its SVR fairly or in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
And the terms that set out how the SVR may be varied are unfair. This has resulted 
in Mr and Mrs R paying a higher rate of interest on their mortgage balance than they 
should have. 
I will deal with each point in turn. 
Was NRAM under a contractual obligation to charge Mr and Mrs R an interest rate that 
tracked the Bank of England Rate?
As I set out above, any complaint points relating to what Mr and Mrs R were told or led to 
believe at the point of sale in August 2007 are out of time. But I can consider whether NRAM 
was under a contractual obligation to charge an interest rate that tracked the Bank of 
England Base Rate.
Having reviewed the mortgage documentation that makes up Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
contract, I am satisfied the mortgage is not a tracker mortgage and NRAM was not under a 
contractual obligation to ensure its SVR tracked the Bank of England Base Rate. 
I am aware Mr and Mrs Rs representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and 
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the 
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
NRAM was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in 
one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr and Mrs R would need to read more 
than one document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed their mortgage, 
given this was a substantial liability, secured on their principle asset, I think Mr and Mrs R 
ought reasonably to be treated as if they had read all of the information provided. 
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
The fairness of the interest rate terms
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves:
Section 4 of the mortgage offer states:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
A fixed rate of 6.55% until 1 February 2009 followed by A variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rock Standard Variable 
Rate, which is currently 7.84% for the remainder of the term of the mortgage.
Please note that the payments illustrated for this period of the mortgage in Section 6 of 
this document are based on Northern Rocks current Standard Variable Rate.It is 
important that you read Section 12 which details additional features relating to this 
product,
Section 12a of the mortgage offer sets out:
On expiry of the Special Rate Period the rate will be set at a rate guaranteed to be 
below our prevailing Standard Variable Rate set by us from time to time for existing 
Northern Rock borrowers (the Guaranteed Rate). We will review the Guaranteed 
Rate on the 1st of each month following any change in the Standard Variable Rate. 
Should the Standard Variable Rate change and we are required to change the rate 
as a result of the guarantee, we will amend the rate of interest payable by you on the 
1st day of the following month or such other day as we may reasonably determine. 
At any time during the Rate Periods our prevailing Standard Variable Rate may be 
lower than the product you have chosen. In such circumstances we are under no 
obligation to reduce the Interest Rate you pay.
The Mortgage Offer General Conditions (2005) set out:
Standard Variable Rate means such rate as we from time to time decide to set as 
the base from which to calculate Interest on our variable rate mortgage loans 
(disregarding the restrictions on what we can charge under condition 7 or the Offer). 
The current Standard Variable Rate which applies to your Loan is set out in the Offer. 
We may change this rate from time to time under Condition 7 of the Offer. If we 
transfer or dispose of the Offer, the person to whom we make the transfer may 
change the rate to its own base rate which applies to its variable rate mortgage 
loans. That rate will then be the Standard Variable Rate under the Offer and the 
person to whom we make the transfer may make further changes to that rate under 
condition 7 or the Offer.
7. Changing the Interest Rate
7.1 We may reduce the Standard Variable Rate at any time. 
7.2 We may increase the Standard Variable Rate at any time if one or more of the 
following reasons applies:
(a) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours;
(b) for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates 
we pay to our own funders;
(c) we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of 
profitability;
(d) there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a general 
increase in the risk of shortfalls on the accounts of mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), or mortgage borrowers (whether 
generally or our mortgage borrowers only), whose accounts are similar to yours;(e) our administrative costs have increased or are likely to do so in the near future.
7.3 We will tell you of any change in the Standard Variable Rate and the Interest 
Rate in one of the following ways: 
(a) by posting or delivering the notice to you in accordance with condition 24; or
(b) by publicising the change as follows:
(i) by displaying a notice of the change at our registered office and all our 
branch offices (if any); and or 
(ii) by advertising the notice in two or more national daily newspapers chosen 
by our board of directors (which will keep a list of the newspapers currently 
chosen by it for this purpose).
If a Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan (the Conditions will indicate if a 
Loan is a capped rate loan or a fixed rate loan, and if so what any capped rate period 
and fixed rate period is) we are not obligated to give you notice of any changes that 
occur in the Standard Variable Rate during any period when such changes do not 
affect the rate you are charged during that period, for example when the Standard 
Variable Rate is higher than the capped rate or during any fixed rate period. 
7.4 Any notice we give under condition 7.3 will state the date on which the new rate 
is to come into effect, which we call the Interest Change Date. The Interest Change 
Date must not be earlier than the date when the notice under condition 7.3 is given. 
For this purpose:
(a) a notice displayed under condition 7.3(b)(i) is to be treated as given on the date 
on which we display it at our registered branch offices (if any) (ignoring any 
accidental failure to display it at a branch office); and
(b) a notice advertised under 7.3(b)(ii) is to be treated as given on the first date by 
which the notice has appeared in each of the newspapers chosen by our board of 
directors.
NRAM has told us it relied on Condition 7.1 for all reductions to the base rate. In 2018, the 
SVR did increase following increases to base rate. NRAM has said it relied on Conditions 
7.2 (a) & (b) to make these changes. It has also said it wrote to Mr and Mrs R each time it 
varied their interest rate as per Condition 7.3. 
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category 
of relevant law. The way the UTCCRs apply to the relevant terms of Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage contract is ultimately a matter for the courts. But they are a relevant consideration I 
must take into account when determining what is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of this case. 
The relevant test as to whether a term is unfair is set out at Regulation 5(1), as follows:
A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded as 
unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in 
the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer.Regulation 6 says:
(1)the unfairness of the contractual term shall be assessed, taking into account 
the nature of the goods and services for which the contract was concluded and by 
referring, at the time of conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending 
the conclusion of the contract on which it is dependent
(2) In so far as it is in plain and intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate:
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or 
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange. 
So, it is important to note, that I must consider whether the variation terms were unfair based 
on the situation when Mr and Mrs R took the mortgage out. And whether the terms in 
question go to the main subject matter of the contract or the adequacy of the 
price/remuneration. 
Schedule 2 to the UTCCRs sets out a grey list of indicatively unfair terms and various factors 
relevant to assessing the fairness of a term. The grey list includes:
1. Terms which have the object and effect of  
(j) enabling the seller or supplier to alter the terms of the contract unilaterally without 
a valid reason which is specified in the contract
The grey list of indicatively unfair terms is subject to the qualifications to be found in in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the UTCCRs. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Schedule
2 of the UTCCRs identifies that the indication of unfairness under paragraph 1(j) is
without hindrance to terms under which a supplier of financial services reserves the
right to:
change a rate of interest payable without notice where there is a valid reason 
(provided the supplier informs the consumer at the earliest opportunity and the 
consumer is free to dissolve the contract immediately);
alter unilaterally the conditions of a contract of indeterminate duration (provided that 
he is required to inform the consumer with reasonable notice and that the consumer 
is free to dissolve the contract).
As a matter of law, if the relevant clauses in this case are unfair under the UTCCRs, they 
would not be binding on Mr and Mrs R (Regulation 8 UTCCR). And NRAM would not have 
been permitted under the terms and conditions to vary the SVR in the way that it did.
In considering these matters, it is relevant to note that the Court of Justice of the European 
Union (CJEU), having identified that ultimately the fairness of a term was a matter for the 
national court to decide, has indicated what national courts should take into account when 
making that decision:
in Invitel, (C-472/10), the court concluded that a price variation clause in a contract is 
not a core term. Identifying that a price variation clause was instead a term relating 
to a mechanism for amending the prices of the services provided to the consumer. in RWE, (C/92/11), the court emphasised that, for unilateral price variation clauses 
(falling within paragraphs 1(j) or 1(l)) to be fair, they must specify the reasons and 
methodology for the price variation so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of 
clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to those charges. In 
addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with meaningful 
criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary, challenge, any proposed variation 
to the rate. The CJEU also placed importance on whether the right to exit a contract 
in the event of a unilateral price variation can practically be exercised by the 
consumer at the time, having regard to the circumstances of the market as it exists at 
the time.
in Kasler, (C-26/13), the CJEU identified that, when assessing the fairness of a 
unilateral variation clause  and the meaning of plain intelligible language, national 
courts ought to consider whether: a) the mechanism expressed in the reasons for the 
variation is transparent; such that b) it would enable a consumer to foresee and 
predict the economic consequences for him or her.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering 
the interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms 
relating to the lenders renumeration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis 
of clear, intelligible criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it. 
The leading UK judgement on the UTCCR is the 2015 Supreme Court case ParkingEye v 
Beavis. In this case the Court said that:
The test for establishing a significant imbalance (Regulation 5(1)) includes, but is not 
limited to, asking whether the terms of agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law in the absence of the 
contractual provision;
The question of whether a term is contrary to the requirements of good faith depends 
on an objective hypothetical negotiation, asking whether an informed consumer 
would have agreed to the term in question during individual contract negotiations. 
This should take into account a wider circumstantial review, such as the relationship 
with other relevant contractual terms; and 
Consideration should be given to the nature of the goods or services supplied, 
including the significance, purpose and effect of the term in question. 
FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts is also of relevance. This 
paper sets out that The fairness assessment is a holistic assessment and these two 
elements may overlap in the way they apply to any particular set of facts and that the 
applicable law recognises the importance of striking a fair balance between the legitimate 
interests of both the supplier and consumer. The guidance also provides an overview of 
factors relevant to determining whether a variation term is fair. At paragraphs 66 and 67 the 
guidance states that firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if 
they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the 
financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so within any advance 
notice or reasonable timeframe. 
Application to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint
Having considered the above, I am satisfied I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the variation clause was unfair:Whether the term is a core term 
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith.
The decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of contract is 
in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and all the 
circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is unfair 
involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing back to 
consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in all the surrounding 
circumstances. 
- Is the relevant term a core term?
The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
Im aware from its submissions that NRAM considers the case law to instead support its 
position that Condition 7 is a core term and therefore cannot be subject to an assessment of 
fairness. But I disagree for the reasons Ive already set out. 
- Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good 
faith?
As set out above, one of the considerations when determining if the terms create a 
significant imbalance is whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an 
advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and 
are common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or 
indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both 
consumers and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling 
firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they 
charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding...1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied 
that, if the agreement itself didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume 
that national law would provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for 
legitimate reasons. And I think the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to 
accept this and agree to it in hypothetical negotiations. 
The key issue is whether the terms in Mr and Mrs Rs agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect NRAMs legitimate interests, whether the variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent and whether there were significant barriers to Mr and Mrs R 
dissolving the contract. 
Taking everything into account, including the case law set out above, I am not satisfied that 
the terms necessarily meet the wider transparency requirements. While grammatically they 
are easy to follow, the relevant terms allowing for the SVR to be varied are broad, and the 
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)circumstances in which changes might be made give NRAM significant discretion about 
when it can make changes to the SVR and by how much. 
The broadest part of the term relates to reductions in the rate, as this doesnt require NRAM 
to rely on any particular circumstances to make the change  Condition 7.1. But I cant see 
that a term which gives a lender the unfettered ability to reduce the rate payable, could be 
considered to create a significant imbalance between the lender and consumer to the 
detriment of the consumer, contrary to the requirement of good faith. The lack of restrictions 
on reducing the interest rate increases the situations in which the interest rate might fall, and 
so is in the consumers favour 
In considering Condition 7.2, I think its possible a court may find that the following clauses 
are not sufficiently transparent such that an informed consumer would have agreed to them 
in individual negotiations:
B. for good commercial reasons, we need to fund an increase in the interest rates we pay to 
our own funders
C. we wish to adjust our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent level of profitability
I am not persuaded a consumer would necessarily be able to understand the basis and the 
mechanics for any decisions taken that relied on these terms or to be able to understand the 
economic consequences of entering into the agreement and, if necessary, to challenge a 
variation made in reliance on them. I consider these terms potentially to be wider than are 
reasonably necessary to achieve a legitimate purpose and they do not explain to the 
consumer the method for determining the new price  good commercial reasons and a 
prudent level of profitability are very vague terms.
While I do think that a term enabling NRAM to increase the SVR proportionately to reflect 
increases in its cost of funds in specific circumstances would be fair, I think Condition 7.2 (b) 
and (c) go beyond what national law would likely imply. I think its possible a court could find 
that they cause a significant imbalance between the parties and I think its unlikely a 
hypothetical consumer would have agreed to a term that enabled the lender to increase the 
SVR payable on their mortgage for such vague reasons. 
Having reached this conclusion, I also need to consider whether  at the time the contract 
was taken out  there were likely to be such significant barriers to Mr and Mrs R dissolving 
the contract that they could not effectively make use of the right to do so. If there were such 
barriers, that may mean that the variation terms are unfair. 
In assessing whether the term itself is unfair  the test is not whether there were significant 
practical barriers for Mr and Mrs R at the point at which their interest rate was varied, but 
rather whether it was foreseeable at the time the contract was entered into that there may 
have been such barriers. 
There was no ERC applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage at the point they reverted to the 
Guaranteed Rate on 1 February 2009. So if NRAM had exercised its rights as set by the 
variation term, and Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with that decision, they were free under the 
contract to transfer their mortgage to another lender should they have wished without having 
to pay this charge. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has said that other costs impacted on Mr and Mrs Rs ability 
to redeem their mortgage and transfer to another lender such as the discharge fee and other 
associated switching costs. I have considered this carefully, but Im not satisfied that this fee 
was a significant barrier to their ability to redeem the loan in the way that an ERC would be. The discharge fee wouldve always been due when the mortgage was redeemed, whether 
that was before the end of the intended term or not and is set out clearly in the mortgage 
offer. And with regards to switching costs, I am not persuaded these are the sort of 
significant barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind when determining whether a 
variation clause is unfair. Mr and Mrs R would incur these costs if ever they sought to switch 
lender. 
However, while I do not think the mortgage discharge fee or other associated switching costs 
presented a practical and significant barrier to Mr and Mrs R dissolving the contract should 
they have wanted to, I do think it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr and Mrs R may 
struggle to refinance both their mortgage and unsecured loan. Given the special conditions 
attached to the unsecured loan, I think this was a real and practical barrier to Mr and Mrs R 
dissolving their mortgage contract with NRAM.
With this in mind, alongside my finding that the terms do not necessarily satisfy the 
requirement for transparency, I think these terms had the potential to lead to unfairness, 
because if NRAM increased the SVR for an unclear reason, Mr and Mrs R may not 
realistically be able to dissolve the contract and move elsewhere. So, I think a court may 
have a proper basis to conclude that elements of the variation terms were unfair. 
Im aware from its submissions that NRAM disagrees with much of what I have set out here. 
However, while I have read and considered its comments and analysis as to why it 
disagrees, I dont think its submissions change my overall outcome as to what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I have set out why below.   
Legally, the effect of a term being unfair as a matter of law, is that it wont apply. And 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says it should be replaced using a reasonable rate pursuant 
to s.15 of the Supply of Goods and Services Act. But the presence of an unfair term doesnt 
necessarily mean there has been an unfairness such that I automatically uphold the 
complaint. Under our rules I am required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes  but is not limited to  relevant law. 
So, while I have taken account of the relevant law regarding unfair contractual terms, Ive 
also thought more broadly about whether the way the terms have been used has resulted in 
Mr and Mrs R being treated unfairly. 
Has NRAM exercised the terms fairly?
In answering this question, I am doing so in the context that this complaint only concerns the 
fairness of interest charged to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage since May 2014. All interest 
charging events before that point are out of time because Mr and Mrs R did not refer their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in time. 
However, in order to consider the fairness of the interest Mr and Mrs R were charged during 
the period that is in time, its necessary for me to consider historic changes to NRAMs SVR, 
since the SVR charged during the period of time that is in time is the result not only of 
decisions NRAM made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
Im satisfied that each time NRAM made a decision to change the SVR, the SVR remained 
at that revised level until it made a further decision to change it  from the starting point of 
the level resulting from the previous variation. Therefore, the SVR charged from May 2014 is 
the sum of the parts of the history that went before. And if any of those parts were 
themselves potentially unfair, that might mean that the SVR charged from May 2014 is itself 
unfair. Having established that I need to look at the SVR both before and after May 2014, and 
having considered all the available evidence, I am not persuaded NRAM has varied the rate 
unfairly. I have set out why below. 
Between August 2007 (when Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage) and April 2009, the SVR 
only reduced. But the difference between the SVR and the base rate increased from 2.09% 
to 4.29%. 
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage so NRAM was not contractually 
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage had a cap 
preventing NRAMs SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above base rate. In 
addition, Ive already explained that I dont think a term allowing NRAM to reduce the SVR, 
and with it, the amount Mr and Mrs R had to pay, is likely to be unfair in principle as a matter 
of law. So, these changes are not impacted by the question of whether on a strict legal 
analysis the term would apply.
But it is necessary to determine whether the way in which NRAM exercised this term was 
fair.
NRAM has provided us with evidence to show how it reviewed the SVR over the relevant 
period, the decisions it took when it came to varying the rate and by how much as well as its 
general commercial strategy at the time. For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent 
set out the evidence provided by NRAM in full or provided copies of it to Mr and Mrs R. Our 
rules allow me to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is 
disclosed, where I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate 
to accept the information and evidence NRAM has provided in confidence, subject to the 
summary of it I have set out in this decision. 
During this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses and was 
reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the 
time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by both the Bank of 
England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, 
the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. 
These were made up of several factors and that are not directly linked to base rate. There 
was a substantial risk to all lenders during this period and they all had to find ways to 
mitigate that risk while balancing the need to treat customers fairly.
NRAM has told us that, like many lenders at the time, it was predominantly funded by 
wholesale funding. The cost of which was in the most part, contractually defined by 
reference to LIBOR and LIBOR generally followed base rate prior to the financial crisis. As a 
result, changes in base rate tended to result in changes to cost of funding. Before the 
financial crisis, changes in costs of its retail funding also tended to correspond to changes in 
base rate.   
However, during the financial crisis, there was a significant dislocation between LIBOR and 
base rate, such that reductions in base rate were not matched by commensurate reductions 
to LIBOR or to NRAMs cost of wholesale funding. In addition, access to wholesale funding 
became harder to come by as lenders became more concerned at the risk of default - NRAM 
in particular has shown how its credit rating was impacted and the implications this had on 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what determines 
them and why do they matter? 
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services consumer 
contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10its ability to raise and the cost of its funding. It also experienced an outflow of its retail 
savings deposits following negative press in late 2007. 
To avoid collapse, NRAM received State Aid in the form of a Government loan in September 
2007. With the aid, came several conditions on how NRAM could operate and obligations on 
how and when it should look to repay the loan. Understandably, this significantly impacted its 
commercial strategy and with it, the cost of funding mortgages like Mr and Mrs Rs. To add 
to this, NRAM was nationalised in February 2008 with its entire share capital being 
transferred to HM Treasury. One of the conditions of the restructure was that NRAM would 
be limited to a maximum 1.5% share of all retail funding in the UK and 0.8% in Ireland. 
In addition, as part of its restructure, it was agreed NRAM would transfer all its higher quality 
assets to a third party, whilst the lower quality assets would remain with NRAM and be 
wound down. Given the perceived quality of its remaining assets, this had a further impact 
on the cost of NRAMs funding. 
While Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers the obligations to repay the Government loan 
as quickly as possible could only have led to pure profiteering on the part of NRAM, I am not 
persuaded this was the case. NRAM reduced its SVR on several occasions during this 
period, just not by the same proportion as the base rate. Given the documented increase in 
cost of funding across the industry, including for NRAM specifically, and the obligations 
surrounding the Government loan, I am satisfied NRAM balanced its own financial position 
and obligations at the time with the impact such changes would have on customers like Mr 
and Mrs R. 
And while NRAMs SVR was at the higher end of what was being charged across the 
industry at the time, it was not an outlier, with several lenders charging a higher SVR. While 
the SVR charged by other lenders is not directly relevant to NRAMs cost of funds, these 
factors reassure me in my conclusion that NRAMs decisions on how much to reduce its 
SVR by were proportionate to the costs it  along with the rest of the industry  faced at this 
time and not unfair.  
I have not seen any evidence to suggest the changes it made were arbitrary, excessive, or 
unfair. Rather, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that NRAM acted to protect its legitimate 
interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly. And Im further satisfied 
that the evidence NRAM has provided is corroborated by evidence of wider market 
conditions at the time. 
While I note and have considered in full the expert report provided by Mr and Mrs Rs 
representative, I am not persuaded it outweighs the business specific evidence provided by 
NRAM on the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of funding, and as I have said 
above, I have considered other sources such as the Bank of England that lead me to a 
different conclusion.
After 2010 the only changes made to the SVR were in line with changes made to the base 
rate. And NRAM has shown that the SVR was continually reviewed, with it having regard to 
the changes made by other lenders and its continuing obligations under the Government 
loan. 
So, while I accept that a court may potentially find the relevant terms to be unfair pursuant to 
UTCCR, I am not persuaded that NRAM operated them in an unfair manner when setting 
and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage or that they have led to 
Mr and Mrs R being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on their mortgage. I have also considered the representatives suggestion that NRAM has breached Principle 6 
of the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same 
reasons set out above, Im not persuaded it has. 
Finally, I note that at an earlier stage in the Ombudsman Services consideration of this 
complaint, the representative argued that NRAM had breached its Braganza duty not to 
exercise its discretion to vary the SVR arbitrarily, capriciously, perversely or irrationally. For 
the reasons set out above, if there was such a duty in the present case, Im satisfied that 
NRAM did not breach it since it approached the question of varying the SVR fairly and 
rationally.
My final decision
Considering everything, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and 
I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman