DRN-4446505
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (SE) have delayed processing a Pension 
Sharing Order (PSO) from her ex-husbands plan to hers. She went on to say that SE 
werent able to substantiate the amount that was transferred into her pension after the PSO 
had been actioned.
Shes concerned that shes lost out financially because of SEs delays. Mrs M is being 
represented by her Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) in the complaint.
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs M was awarded a PSO from the court giving her 53.65% of her ex-
husbands pension. As Mrs Ms ex-spouse held his pension with SE, in December 2021, her 
IFA submitted the PSO to them and requested that they move her newly awarded 
entitlement into her own pension fund. 
Initially, SE didnt receive the correct information that they needed from Mrs Ms IFA to 
process the request. However, by 11 February 2022, SE had everything they needed to 
implement the Courts instruction, and on 3 March 2022, SE started work on facilitating the 
PSO. 
By 14 March 2022, SE had undertaken the transfer and moved £449,299 to Mrs Ms own 
pension fund. As the amount credited to Mrs Ms pension was less than her IFA initially 
thought that she was entitled to, he contacted SE, asking them to provide a detailed 
breakdown of her ex-spouses funds both pre and post application of the PSO. However, SE 
explained that they were unwilling to give the level of detail that the IFA was requesting 
because it would mean revealing personal information about Mrs Ms ex-spouses pension to 
which the IFA wasnt entitled to see. 
Frustrated with SEs refusal to provide her with the information that she felt was reasonable 
to ensure that theyd complied with the Court Order, Mrs M decided to formally complain to 
SE on 7 June 2022. In summary, she said that she was unhappy with the amount of monies 
shed received and wanted an explanation, with evidence from SE showing how theyd 
arrived at their transfer amount.
As Mrs M hadnt received a response to her complaint from SE by August 2022, she then 
referred her complaint to this service. In summary, she set out the same concern  that she 
was unhappy with the amount of time that SE were taking to action the courts instruction 
and she wanted proof that SE had credited her pension with the correct amount of monies.
In February 2023, SE issued their final resolution letter to Mrs Ms complaint. They conceded 
that theyd taken far longer to switch the monies out of her ex-husbands pension pot than 
they would typically like. They went on to say that because of their delays, the transfer 
should have taken place on 13 February 2022. That meant, they said, Mrs M wouldve been 
entitled to a further £20,117. Consequently, SE decided to credit Mrs Ms new pension with 
those additional monies. In recognition of the trouble that theyd caused Mrs M, SE also 
explained that they were paying her £400 for the inconvenience that the whole process had 
had on her.
After reviewing SEs complaint response, Mrs M explained that she remained unhappy. She 
went on to say that she still wanted evidence from SE that the amount put in her pension set 
by the Court Order was correct. In addition, she wanted to understand the effect of any loss 
to her from SE not acting upon her IFAs instruction to sell those units and convert the funds 
to cash.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that to 
demonstrate SE had put the correct amount in Mrs Ms pension, details of her ex-husbands 
investments would need to be disclosed. And, as her ex-spouse hadnt provided that 
authority, it was inappropriate to provide the level of detail that Mrs Ms IFA was asking for. 
Having looked at SEs calculations, however, our Investigator was satisfied that Mrs M had 
received the correct amount that she was entitled to. In addition, our Investigator felt that in 
light of the delays that SE had caused in actioning the Court Order, the £400 that they had 
offered to Mrs M for the trouble and upset caused, was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that she 
didnt think that she was being unreasonable asking for evidence of SEs calculations so she 
could satisfy herself that shed been given her fair entitlement from her ex-spouses pension. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Mrs M had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. So, Mrs M 
then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After reviewing the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case as, whilst I was 
minded to agree with the Investigators initial view, I was of the opinion that there was some 
common ground that I believed could be reached to aid the consumer and their IFA, in 
understanding how the business had reached the sum transferred to her pension.
What I said in my provisional decision:
In reaching a decision on this complaint, Ive taken into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the 
submissions that have been made by Mrs M and by SE. Where the evidence is unclear, or 
there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
I should also emphasise that it isnt appropriate for this service to intervene in matters that 
have already been considered by the courts, but I can look at whether any of the information 
SE provided to Mrs M was incorrect, or misleading. Those are the issues that I will consider 
in this decision. Ive looked at the Pension Annex that SE used when calculating the value of 
Mr Ms pension savings, that should be transferred to Mrs M, that was dated 12 October 
2021. 
SE were informed in December 2021 of Mrs Ms wishes and thats the point at which they 
started collating the necessary information from Mrs M and her IFA to complete the order. I 
dont intend to provide a detailed timeline in my decision because the chain of events is well 
known to both parties. In addition, SE have also provided a breakdown of what happened 
and when, in their email to Mrs Ms IFA on 18 May 2022. It seems that between 1 December 
2021 and 11 February 2022, SE were waiting for Mrs Ms IFA to return various pieces of 
documentation to them and respond to follow-up queries that had been raised. By 11 February 2022, SE had everything that they needed to process the transfer but it wasnt until 
3 March 2022, that they started disinvesting funds from Mrs Ms ex-spouses pension. SE 
then processed the request on 14 March 2022 and transferred the monies to Mrs Ms 
pension. SE have already conceded that they could have undertaken the transfer work on 13 
February 2022, but due to an internal error, that process didnt begin until the following 
month.
Mrs Ms IFA feels that SE could have acted upon their instructions sooner, but from what Ive 
seen, SE were in constant contact with Mrs M and her IFA, requesting that various pieces of 
documentation be exchanged. For example, SE didnt receive the signed pension transfer 
authority form from Mrs M until 11 February 2022 (which shed signed on 9 February 2022), 
so Ive not been persuaded that they couldve acted before 13 February 2022.
Like our Investigator, Ive also reviewed SEs calculations on how theyve arrived at the 
amount transferred to Mrs Ms pension. And, whilst its not this services role to check firms 
calculations, it does appear SE has applied a 53.65% debit to Mrs Ms ex-spouses pension, 
as the court required of them. In determining the financial impact of the delays, SE have 
compared what had been paid to Mrs M in March 2022 and then worked out what she would 
have received had the monies been paid to her in February 2022, taking account of the lost 
investment growth. Whilst Ive not reviewed the unit prices that SE have used, their 
approach and methodology looks reasonable. They then updated their calculations in 
February 2023 after further discussion with Mrs Ms adviser and that resulted in the addition 
of £20,000 of further monies being applied to her plan.
Theres no doubt that SE delayed processing Mrs Ms PSO. Whilst some of those hold-ups 
werent directly attributable them, a large part were, and it wasnt until January 2023 that SE 
finally put things right for Mrs M.
I empathise fully with Mrs M and her desire to ensure that shes getting her fair share of what 
the court has instructed. However, I need to balance that wish with the reasonable privacy 
demands that her ex-spouse expects of SE. And, as our Investigator has already explained, 
its for that reason that I cant force SE to provide detailed information about Mr Ms pension 
as it would result in SE providing more information than is necessary to allow the IFA to 
satisfy themselves that Mrs M has been provided with a fair outcome. However, I do think 
there is a balance to be had and I dont think its reasonable for Mrs M and her IFA to blindly 
accept what SE is saying as accurate. 
So, to that end, Ive looked closely at the various calculations that SE have submitted to this 
service and I dont think its unreasonable for part of that information to be shared with Mrs M 
and her adviser. I think, by doing so, it will go some way to show Mrs M that the approach 
that SE have taken in reaching the end figure transferred is fair. Importantly though, that 
information wouldnt risk breaching Mr Ms confidentiality by sharing information with Mrs M 
to which she is not entitled to. Having liaised in with SE, theyve given me no reason why 
their detailed price comparison result calculations cant be shared with Mrs M, so I therefore 
require SE to forward that information to Mrs M and her IFA.
Mrs Ms IFA is concerned that SE refused to act on his instructions to sell down assets within 
Mr Ms pension, pending the transfer of those monies into her pension. But, until such time 
as the monies are transferred out of Mr Ms pension and into Mrs Ms pension, Mr M is free 
to choose how his monies are invested, so I wouldnt expect SE to take instruction from an 
IFA, who isnt recorded as the servicing adviser on Mr Ms pension.
Should Mrs M feel that SEs application of the PSO has resulted in an unfair outcome, that 
would be a matter for her to raise with the court. SE say that they have already paid Mrs M 
£400 in February 2023 for the trouble that they caused her. Thinking about the inconvenience that shes experienced, Im of the view that this amount is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and is in line with what I would have recommended SE to pay to Mrs M 
had they not already done so. 
In summary, to demonstrate SE has put the correct amount in Mrs Ms pension, Mrs Ms IFA 
wants details of her ex-husbands pension and underlying investments. But, as Ive already 
explained, as her ex-spouse hasnt provided that authority, I think its inappropriate to 
provide the level of information that Mrs Ms IFA is asking for. From what Ive seen, SE have 
applied the order as instructed. So, whilst Im planning on upholding Mrs Ms complaint 
because of the delays that SE created in processing the PSO, I am only instructing SE to 
provide their price comparison result calculations to Mrs M and her IFA, and pay Mrs M the 
£400 for the inconvenience that they caused her if theyve not already done so. 
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision, SE said that they didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs Ms IFA responded, explaining that he didnt believe the outcome was reasonable. He 
explained that:
Much of the delays in the processing of the PSO were down to SE refusing to take 
scanned documents from them.
SE werent being reasonable in refusing to give detailed information about Mr Ms 
pension, particularly given that the court had awarded Mrs M 53.65% of it.
Mrs Ms IFA explained that the Court Order stipulated that Mr M shouldnt do anything to 
reduce the value of his pension and should he have done so, he would be in contempt of 
court.
Mrs Ms IFA went on to explain that his instructions to SE, asking them to sell the 
53.65% of the pension fund, was the only way to ensure that the Court Order was acted 
on. Mrs Ms IFA explained that hes of the view that both SE and Mr M may have 
therefore acted contrary to the Court Order and could be held in contempt.
Finally, the IFA explained that if SE were to offer Mrs M £12,000 in full and final 
settlement of the complaint, she wouldnt take the case back to court.
Given Mrs Ms IFA alleged that SE were in breach of the Court Order, this service shared 
Mrs Ms correspondence with SE. SE explained that they were still of the view that they had 
acted reasonably and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs M and her IFA have done and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something that Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied that 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  and thats Mrs 
Ms disappointment about the length of time that it took SE to process the PSO and their 
unwillingness to provide the level of information about her ex-husbands pension that she 
feels that shes entitled to receive.
Whilst I am upholding Mrs Ms complaint because SE could have processed the PSO more 
promptly, which is a point that SE have already acknowledged, Ive not however been 
persuaded that they could have done so more quickly than February 2022 or that SE are 
being unreasonable in safeguarding Mr Ms privacy, by refusing to give more detailed 
information to Mrs Ms IFA about his pension. So, Im of the view that the offer that SE have 
already made to Mrs M to put things right is fair in the circumstances.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs M will likely to be disappointed by my decision, Ill explain why 
below. But, before I do, I want to acknowledge that I understand how stressful divorce 
proceedings can be and I fully appreciate the strength of feeling that Mrs M has about the 
issues raised.
Ive thought carefully about the statements that Mrs Ms IFA has made about the Court 
Order, which stipulated that Mr M shouldnt do anything to reduce the value of his pension 
and should he have done so, he could be in contempt of court. To be clear, neither Mrs M 
nor her IFA have submitted any evidence to this service to show that either Mr M or SE has 
wilfully reduced the value of Mr Ms pension. As Ive already set out though, until such time 
as SE is provided with all of the requisite information necessary from Mrs M and her IFA, in 
order to enable them to process the PSO, I wouldnt expect SE to take instruction from an 
IFA on encashing investments  particularly one who isnt recorded as the servicing adviser 
on Mr Ms pension and when they werent in receipt of all the necessary paperwork. This 
also means that Mr M is free to continue managing his pension as he sees fit, as long as he 
complies with the instructions set out in the Court Order.
But, to be very clear, if Mrs M believes that Mr M or SE have not compiled with this specific 
point of the Court Order and is therefore in breach of the courts instructions, that is a matter 
for her to raise through her legal representative and then for the court to address, and not 
this service. However, to avoid the costs of such an endeavour, Mrs M may wish to liaise 
directly with Mr M in the first instance, to try and resolve the matter informally.
Mrs Ms IFA has explained that most of the delays were down to SE refusing to take 
scanned copies of documentation which, he says, were the only copies available to them. 
Hes also sent an email to this service that shows he attempted to email a scanned copy of 
the PSO to SE on 30 November 2021. However, it seems that SE originally requested hard 
copies but were ultimately willing to take scanned copies of documents when they learned 
that hard copies werent available. That email doesnt alter my thinking because it was only 
submitted to SE on the afternoon of 30 November 2021, the day before the timeline Ive 
already considered, started. 
Mrs M is of the view that SE could have acted upon her IFAs instructions sooner, but as Ive 
already explained, SE didnt receive the signed pension transfer authority form from Mrs M 
until 11 February 2022 (which shed signed on 9 February 2022), so Ive not been persuaded 
that they couldve acted before 13 February 2022, particularly as Ive seen evidence of SE 
setting out what documents were still required to Mrs Ms IFA in January 2022. So, until 11 
February 2022, SE werent able to action the PSO because they didnt have all of the 
necessary paperwork. Despite this, SE have conceded that they initially delayed starting 
work on the PSO in February 2022 and have acknowledged that within their redress 
calculation. I think its important to acknowledge that facilitating a PSO isnt a straightforward 
undertaking, and it typically takes far longer to organise than an ordinary pension transfer. 
SE have to satisfy themselves that they hold all of the necessary information, prior to actioning the instruction, and thats to ensure both parties are treated fairly. How long it takes 
to action a PSO varies from case to case, and is dependent upon a number of factors, not 
least how long each of the parties take to respond to the various requests. 
SE acknowledged that there were delays in starting the processing of Mrs Ms PSO, but from 
what Ive seen, the February 2022 date looks fair and reasonable as the point at which SE 
should base their calculations from.
Mrs Ms IFA has explained that if SE were to offer her £12,000 in settlement of her 
complaint, she would not take the matter back to court  SE have rejected that proposal 
however and I can see why. And thats because SEs redress calculations have attempted to 
put Mrs M back into the position that she would have been in, had it not been for the delays 
that were attributable to SE. Mrs Ms representative has also said that SE have made it 
impossible for them to determine what the correct amount is that shes entitled to, because 
theyve not provided their unit prices at certain crucial points - but I dont agree. And thats 
because, as Ive already set out in my provisional decision, by instructing SE to share the 
detailed redress calculations with Mrs M that theyve already provided to this service, will in 
my view, give Mrs M the information that she feels is lacking in understanding how SE 
determined the level of redress that they reached.
Mrs Ms ex-spouse hasnt provided his consent for his pension details to be shared with her 
IFA and without that, SE wont provide the information her IFA is asking for. Despite what 
Mrs Ms IFA may say, I dont believe Mr Ms email of December 2021 to him gave that 
consent. As Ive already explained though, I do empathise with Mrs M and her desire to 
ensure that shes getting her fair share of what the court has instructed. However, I need to 
balance that wish with the reasonable privacy demands that her ex-spouse expects of SE. 
And, as our Investigator has already explained, its for that reason that I cant force SE to 
provide detailed information about Mr Ms pension as it would result in SE providing more 
information than is necessary to allow the IFA to satisfy themselves that Mrs M has been 
provided with a fair outcome. However, I am of the view that SE should provide their redress 
calculations to Mrs M and her IFA so they can better understand how they reached the 
payment theyve made to her. 
Ive very carefully considered the additional submissions that have been provided by Mrs Ms 
IFA. As Ive seen nothing to alter my thinking, I have reached the same decision and for the 
same reasons that I have already set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Scottish Equitable Plc have already offered to pay Mrs M £400 for the trouble and upset that 
they have caused her, and I believe that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
So, my final decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc should pay Mrs M the £400 if theyve not 
already done so, and they must share copies of their redress calculations with her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman