DRN-3606516
The complaint
Mr C complains about the unsuccessful transfer and delay of his assets from ITI Capital 
Limited (referred to as ITI or the Transferor) to a new provider of his choosing, referred to 
as the transferee.  
What happened
Mr C initially held an account with a different provider, with whom he had 104 units of 
Vanguard FTSE250 ETF. In August 2019, following intervention from the industry regulator 
the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), the provider went into administration. 
In June 2020 ITI eventually took over the previous providers client books, and Mr Cs assets 
were transferred over. I understand that customers were generally told/led to believe that 
accounts would be up and running by July 2020.
Based on what Mr C says, it seems that in August 2020 he may have contacted the 
transferee and requested a transfer of his assets. At or around the same time, he contacted 
ITI to notify it of his instructions to transfer. 
In terms of a brief chronology, I note in December 2020, Mr C emailed ITI for an update. In 
response to an earlier contact/conversation with the business, he said that any suggestion 
that the transfer had been initiated  and that ITI was waiting to hear from the transferee  
was false, because the transferee told him that it hadnt received any communication from 
ITI.  Mr C also said that hed been calling and emailing for months now and wanted the 
matter dealt with.   
On 5 February 2021, ITI apologised for the delayed response and said:
I have received confirmation from the transfers team today that your transfer is processing 
but unfortunately, they havent received any feedback from the transferee (name 
anonymised). Can you please confirm that your transfer is relevant and contact your 
broker?
On 9 February 2021, Mr C confirmed that the transfer was still relevant, and that the 
transferee would be in touch. In response ITI asked for a copy of the email so that it could 
forward it to the transfers team.  
On 16 February 2021, Mr C provided the email from the transferee, which in short said:
I have been advised that we have received and accepted a valuation from ITI Capital and 
our acceptance was sent to ITI (email address anonymised).
We are now awaiting the proceeds from ITI Capital and will send you a secure message 
once these have been received and applied to your account.
On 17 February 2021, ITI confirmed that its transfer team had proposed a transfer, and 
settlement, date to the transferee. 
On 24 February 2021, in response to Mr C asking for a date, ITI said that there wasnt a 
response from the transferee, so the date of 25 February was irrelevant. It asked Mr C to ask 
the transferee to check for ITIs chaser emails.
Mr C responded the same day asking if this was a joke or what?.  He provided the 
following response hed previously received from the transferee:
I have had a look at your transfer log for you and I cannot see a proposed settlement date.
I can see we received a valuation on the 14 02 2020 to which we sent our acceptance on the 
same day. We are now awaiting the re-registration of the funds to our custodian.
May I suggest in this instance asking the current provider the settlement date they have 
proposed?
Mr C also asked if ITI could pick up the phone so that he could discuss the issue. He didnt 
want to be relaying messages between the transferor and transferee. 
ITI in response confirmed that Operations had its own communication channels with the 
transferee and that it was awaiting the transferees acceptance and confirmation, and that it 
was doing what it could to action Mr Cs request. It provided no further details. 
On 22 March 2021, Mr C queried the position regarding the two systems used by the 
transferor and transferee. He provided ITI confirmation of the transferee stating that it can 
only transfer equities via Crest but ITI can only transfer equities via Euroclear, therefore 
the transferee was unable to agree dates to initiate the trade as we do not use the same 
systems to transfer.
Can you please speak with your current provider about how to send us the funds and then 
let us know how we are to proceed. 
 
Between 25 March 2021 and 11 May 2021, ITI apologised numerous times for not being 
able to provide a solution to the issue, and after some chasing confirmed that it cant deliver 
on Crest as it uses Euroclear. Its after this point, around nine months after making his 
transfer request, that Mr C started asking about how he could get his money back.   
In short, Mr C says that since August 2020 hes been asking ITI to transfer all his assets to a 
new online broker, without success. Despite calling every other week or so, hes been given 
one excuse or another about why its taking so long. Due to the lack of progress and 
frustration Mr C has now abandoned his plan to transfer altogether.  
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said: 
Mr C has provided copies of emails sent to ITI since February 2021, questioning the 
transfer delay.
Hes seen no evidence to persuaded him that ITI has been proactive in contacting Mr 
C, and the communication has been driven by Mr C himself. 
Despite contacting Mr C about the complaint and the (potential) sale of his shares, no 
further evidence has been provided by him regarding this.  
Mr C has been frustrated and inconvenienced by the level of delay, even resulting in him deciding to sell his shares and ending the relationship. 
In the circumstances, £250 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Despite being provided with the investigators view, ITI hasnt responded with any further 
points for consideration  It merely asked to see Mr Cs complaint again. 
In the circumstances the investigator has submitted the complaint for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Mr C recently confirmed that he still has the investment, although he has been recently 
informed by ITI that it is planning to offboard its UK customers and cease operations in the 
UK. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the business behaved 
reasonably. In other words, on balance Im satisfied that there was a delay of around nine 
months, after which Mr C eventually abandoned the idea of transferring his assets away 
from ITI altogether. However, I think the £250 compensation recommended by the 
investigator is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C, and ITI, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In considering this case, Ive also 
considered evidence provided by 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Based on what Mr C says, it seems to me (in the main) he agrees with the investigators 
view, and the award for £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. But 
because the business hasnt materially responded to the investigators view, Im obliged to 
consider this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr C says, I cant entirely blame 
ITI for the entire delays that hes experienced. In other words, on the face of the evidence, 
and on balance, Im unable to safely conclude that ITI is solely responsible for the delays 
experienced. Im conscious that ITI couldnt act without the relevant information from other parties, and 
therefore it was only so far that it could go with the transfer request. Nevertheless, I dont 
think it managed Mr Cs expectations as well as it couldve or provide a level of service that 
he could expect from ITI including accurate and up to date information about what was going 
on.
Its not entirely clear the size of the books that ITI took over from the previous provider that 
went into administration. But its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have greatly affected ITIs capacity to deal with the additional customers and increased 
requests. Its likely that Mr C was far from the only customer seeking to transfer assets.  
Based on what ITI says,  its inability to deal with Mr C arose, in the main, from issues outside 
of its control in that it was waiting to hear back from the transferee  I note Mr C strongly 
disagrees with this - and that it used a transfer system that was incompatible with the 
transferee. I note that despite trying  although it provided no details of what exactly it did  it 
couldnt find a solution to the issue. 
On the face of the available evidence, I note Mr C did all he reasonably could to try and 
move things along, but to no avail. It seems that eventually as a result of finding out that it 
wasnt possible to transfer as intended, he was forced to abandon his plan altogether. It 
could be argued that Mr C shouldve been furnished with this information  regarding the 
Crest and Euroclear incompatibility  much sooner, so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not he wanted to stay or choose a different provider that was 
compatible with ITI.  
Im satisfied that he suffered destress and inconvenience during the entire process, chasing 
ITI for answers, for which Ive said £250 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. In 
other words, Im satisfied that the compensation adequately reflects the time and effort put in 
by Mr C to try and resolve the issues.
Im mindful that Mr C, in light of the delays, initially decided to cash in his shares before then 
deciding against this idea, in order to preserve the ISA status. Im mindful that both decisions 
were made of his own volition without financial advice from ITI.    
Im also mindful that recently  in or around July 2022  Mr C was notified that ITI planned to 
offboard all UK customers and cease operations in the UK. Whilst Mr C understandably 
remains concerned about his investment, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he cant still 
transfer his assets to a different business or cash in his shares. 
Im mindful that Mr C never made clear what he intended to do if the transfer was successful. 
If Mr C had chosen to sell with ITI, and the sale was delayed, and he suffered a financial loss 
as a result, the circumstances would be different. Or, if Mr C hadnt been given any 
opportunity to sell his shares, and did so immediately after the transfer, that situation would 
also be different. But neither or those situations are what Im faced with in this case at 
present and therefore I cant say that ITI wouldnt have been capable of the sale if Mr C had 
proceeded with selling the shares. 
In any case, Im sure Mr C will be aware that a financial business isnt responsible for any 
adverse market movements and he may want to consider obtaining financial advice about 
what he should do given what he now knows about ITIs plans. 
I appreciate Mr C says that ITI lied to him about aspects of the transfer, but Im unable to 
safely say that this was the case, or that he was deliberately misled by ITI. Evidently there 
was miscommunication between ITI and Mr C and possibly the transferee  using inaccurate 
and out of date information  which wasnt helped by the delays. Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs frustration in this matter, Im not going to ask ITI to do anything 
other than pay him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman