DRN-2000926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as 
Staffordshire Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Nationwide Building Society and Staffordshire Building Society merged  and Nationwide is 
responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, Ill mostly refer to 
Nationwide as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs J when they applied together 
for a mortgage in April 1992. It protected their mortgage monthly repayments if Mr J lost his 
job unexpectedly or if he had an accident or became disabled and he wasnt able to work. 
Mr and Mrs J took out some additional PPI a few months later when they borrowed some 
extra money on their mortgage account. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel we should uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagree. 
Mr and Mrs Js main complaint is that they were told they had to have the PPI to obtain the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs J also say they wouldnt have taken out the PPI if theyd known it was 
optional and they didnt have to pay for it. 
Theyve asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont know exactly what was said when Mr and Mrs J arranged their mortgage and applied 
for PPI. They recall meeting with two representatives and being told that Mr J had to have 
PPI because he was paid weekly  and Mrs J (as she became) didnt need the cover. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs J are sure about what theyve told us. But it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect them to recall in detail what was discussed at the time. This means 
that what they say about how they were sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely.
Nationwide says that PPI wasnt compulsory with the mortgage. And looking at the PPI part 
of their mortgage application, I dont think that theres anything written on that form which 
wouldve reasonably caused Mr and Mrs J to think that their mortgage was only available if 
they also took out PPI. 
I can see also that , despite what they say about thinking they had to have it, Mr and Mrs J 
didnt actually fill in the PPI part of their mortgage application during the meeting theyve 
mentioned  thats been left blank on the form that was handed in to Nationwide. 
And looking at the way this part of the form is worded, I think they wouldve understood from 
this that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have PPI. 
I say this because on the application they filled in to get their mortgage it says:
MORTGAGE PAYMENT PROTECTION  If you wish to benefit from the protection, please 
indicate the percentage of benefits to apply to the applicant(s) and complete the section 
below. 
I think this wording makes it clear that having PPI was optional. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs J mightve forgotten some of these details. 
It looks like the PPI was actually sold to them later on during the mortgage application 
process because they had PPI set up alongside their mortgage once this started. 
This means that Mr and Mrs J must have completed a separate application form to have 
PPI. So, taking all this information into account, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough to be 
able to say that Nationwide didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs J not to 
choose PPI if they didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think that Nationwide did do enough to make Mr and Mrs J aware that the 
PPI was optional and it was added to their mortgage at their request.
Looking at the paperwork from the sale and what we know about how Nationwide (when it 
was trading as Staffordshire Building Society) sold policies in its branches at the time, I dont 
think its likely it gave advice or a personal recommendation about PPI to Mr and Mrs J. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for them. But it still had to make sure that Mr and Mrs J 
had enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for them.
Nationwide told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date that 
Mr and Mrs J took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which we know 
Staffordshire Building Society was already using before this date  so I think its likely that in 
all main respects the policy that Mr and Mrs J took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
The policy provided temporary disablement and unemployment cover for Mr J. 
As far as I can see, even taking into account Mr Js sick pay entitlement at work, it looks like 
Mr and Mrs J couldve benefitted from having PPI. 
Mr J was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and for 
significantly longer than he couldve relied on his employer to pay him if he was off sick - up 
to 18 months for a successful temporary disablement claim in the event of accident or 
sickness. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 18 months per claim if Mr J became 
unexpectedly unemployed and was out of work. Mr and Mrs J told us they had some limited savings. But I dont know if they wouldve always 
had savings to rely on if Mr J needed to make a claim on the policy. And the PPI couldve 
paid out for a lot longer than the amount of savings theyve mentioned wouldve lasted if 
theyd had to rely on these to cover their outgoings if Mr J wasnt able to work.
As the mortgage was based on both Mr and Mrs J being in work (and Mr J was the main 
earner) I think Mr and Mrs J mightve found it difficult to keep paying the mortgage if Mr J 
wasnt able to work. 
PPI provided dependable cover they could rely on to pay their mortgage. So, I cant 
reasonably say they couldnt have benefitted from Mr J having the policy.
As far as I can see, Mr J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits. As he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely that 
having clearer information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs J off taking out the PPI.
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if Mr and Mrs J were told the cost of the PPI when they 
applied for it. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for them.
And thats borne out by the fact that a few months later Mr and Mrs J upgraded the amount 
of cover by buying some additional PPI to cover their extra borrowing when they took out a 
further advance on their mortgage to pay for some home improvement work. 
As before, they filled in an application form similar to their mortgage application to get the 
additional borrowing they wanted and the PPI part is crossed through. Theres nothing on 
the form that wouldve made Mr and Mrs J think that they had to have PPI. 
Ive seen the separate PPI application Mr and Mrs J filled in to arrange the extra cover. They 
chose the amount of extra benefit they wanted to have and confirmed that they wanted the 
cover to be in Mr Js name. They also signed a separate instruction to their bank to pay for 
this. So it seems clear that keeping costs down doesnt seem to have been a priority for 
Mr and Mrs J at the time. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this PPI was sold. But 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs J wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. 
I think they still wouldve decided to buy the cover they took out even if theyd been better 
informed as it offered Mr and Mrs J valuable protection they didnt otherwise have in their 
particular situation. 
And on balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J said in response to the adjudicators view. For 
the reasons Ive set out, these points dont change my decision.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair. To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman