DRN-3645297
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B complain Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) unfairly declined 
to settle some of their claim on their home insurance policy. 
References to Ms or Mr B, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Gresham involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Gresham.
What happened
Ms B and Mr B made a claim on their home insurance policy after they noticed water coming 
through the light fitting in the ceiling in their lounge.
Gresham appointed its approved building contractor to look at the escape of water. The 
building contractor attended and advised the most likely cause of the leak was from the seal 
and grout in the tiles of the shower in the room above where the water had leaked through. It 
did not find any leaks from pipes in the shower.
Gresham said the work to replace the grout and seal in the shower was not covered under 
the terms of the policy. It advised Ms B and Mr B to have this replaced to see if it resolved 
the issue. It said it would reconsider the claim if this did not resolve the leak. Gresham 
agreed to pay for the costs of a new light fitting and the fitting of it under the terms of the 
contents part of their policy.
Ms B and Mr B were not happy with this. They engaged their own builder. Their builder 
recommended to remove the shower tray and cut out the floor area that was damaged and 
this would give the opportunity to check the drainage pipework for any leaks.
Ms B and Mr B have not undertaken the replacement grout and sealing work recommended 
by Gresham nor have they undertaken the recommendation from their own builder. 
Ms B also said she was told in a phone call before she took out the policy that all repair work 
would be covered by the policy. She said the policy wording is ambiguous and confusing. 
As Ms B and Mr B were not happy with Gresham, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they felt 
the claim progress proposed by Gresham was reasonable. And what it has offered to do if 
the replacement of the grout does not resolve the issue is fair.
As Ms B and Mr B are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the evidence of the actual leak provided by both Gresham and Ms B.  
Greshams report said there is no clear source of the leak. I reviewed the images provided in 
the report and agree there is evidence of some deterioration of the grouting between the wall 
tiles in the shower. The images show silicone has been put over some of the cracked grout 
on the wall tiles. The images also show that there are no visible leaks from any pipes under 
the shower tray as the floor is dry. The water appears to be coming from the wall. 
Gresham concluded that the water is most likely to be coming through the failed grout in the 
wall tiles. It said it could see this as it used the shower and water started to drip beneath the 
shower tray. This is classed as general wear and tear and as per the terms and conditions of 
the policy it is not covered. It recommended Ms B organised a contractor to rake out and 
replace the failed grout to see if this resolved the leak. Gresham said if this did not resolve 
the issue it would return and investigate further.
Ms B submitted an email from her own builder. The email says Under shower tray there is 
evidence of water damage to the floor due to leak from the shower which has caused the 
floor to degrade. Ceiling in the lounge area below hasn't suffered significant damage. The 
builder recommended cutting out the floor under the shower to check the pipework for leaks 
and then to carry out any remedial work required. There wasnt a diagnosis of where the 
water was coming from.
Ms B said she did not think the grout was the cause as she had other showers in the house 
that did not have this issue. And the bathroom had been assessed by a plumber a few 
weeks prior to the leak and the grout was not mentioned. She felt this implied the grout was 
fine.  
Ms B did not agree to get the failed grout raked out and replaced to see if this resolved the 
issue. Therefore Gresham suggested she arranged for her own builder to carry out the work 
they had detailed in their email to her. Gresham said Ms B should take detailed photos of the 
work undertaken and what her builder found in terms of the leak. It said if she then 
considered it was something that Gresham can or should review it would consider if it was 
covered by the policy. 
Ms B has not had this work undertaken.
Gresham say it will not agree to any of the repair costs to the bathroom as there isnt 
sufficient evidence the damage is as a result of a one-off event.
 
I looked at the terms and conditions within the policy. 
It says in the buildings cover section;
What is covered?
The Buildings
We will cover loss or damage to the buildings caused by any of the following:
5. Water escaping from or freezing in water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating 
systems.
It also says;
What is not covered?
 Wear and tear
By this we mean damage which happens naturally and predictably as a result of normal use
or ageing. For example, an ageing flat roof can fail allowing water to get in. Insurance 
doesnt cover this  its part of your responsibility as the homeowner to keep your home in 
good order.This means, under the terms of the policy, if the escape of water is from a pipe it would be 
covered and if it was from the deterioration of the tile grouting and/or seal around the shower 
tray it would not be covered.
Included in the general conditions of the policy I have seen it says;
To help us settle your claim
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we may ask you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards and any other relevant 
information, documents and assistance we may require to help with your claim.
Based on all the evidence provided, I think it is most likely that the cause of the leak is the 
failed grout. I understand that Ms B disagrees with this but the evidence she has submitted 
does not give any proof of the cause. 
I think the way forward suggested by Gresham, of Ms B organising her own builder and its 
offer to look at the claim again should conclusive evidence of a pipe leak be found, is a 
reasonable outcome in this case. And therefore, I do not uphold this part of Ms B and Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Clarification of cover
Ms B claims she was informed during a phone call at some time in June or July 2020 that 
she was covered for any leaks. Gresham have not been able to find any details of this call.  
The policy schedule and policy terms and conditions give detailed explanations of what is 
covered by the policy. Each year when a policy renews Gresham send out the updated 
documents and terms and conditions to the policy holders.
 I saw that these were last sent to Ms B and Mr B at the end of April 2021. On the first page 
of the documents it says;
Check everythings correct
 Weve enclosed your amendment schedule and statement of fact. Please take the time to 
check these to make sure everythings correct, and give us a call if it isnt.
It is the responsibility of the policy holders to check the details and ensure that the cover 
continues to meet their needs. If Ms B had checked her documents at the start of the new 
term of insurance in 2021, she would have found the details about what is covered for leaks.
Therefore I do not uphold this part of Ms B and  Mr Bs complaint.
Ms B questions how Gresham can accept the claim for the damaged light fitting. She feels 
that if this part of her claim has been accepted then the claim for the bathroom should also 
be accepted. 
This is because the damage to the light fitting was considered and accepted under the 
contents section of her home insurance policy.
I think that Ms B and Mr B were not likely to have been aware of the escape of water until it 
came through the light fitting and I understand they say theyve done all that they could to 
keep their house in well maintained condition. But based on all the evidence I have 
considered I think Gresham have offered a fair way forward in this case. Although I know they will be disappointed, I do not uphold Ms B and Mr Bs complaint and do 
not require Gresham to do anything further in this case
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman