DRN-2212169
The complaint
Mr L and Ms L complain that Santander UK Plc misinformed them that they would eligible for 
additional borrowing on their mortgage. They would like to be put back in the position they 
would have been in had they not been misinformed.
What happened
Mr L and Ms L had a mortgage with Santander composed of two parts, the original mortgage 
and previous additional borrowing. The fixed rate term on part of the mortgage was ending 
on 3 September 2019 when it would revert to Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
Mr L and Ms L were doing substantial home improvements which they had paid for on two 
credit cards. I believe that borrowing was about £13,000.00. They wanted to do more 
including putting in a stove and improvements to the garden area and wanted to borrow 
£15,000.00. Ms L phoned Santander on 12 August 2019 and spoke to an adviser who 
checked their income details and recorded them on the system. Although Ms L, reading form 
P60s, said that their monthly net income was £2,430.00, these income figures were 
incorrectly recorded on the system as £2,628.00. The higher, incorrect figures would have 
allowed Santander to consider giving Mr L and Ms L a mortgage but the outstanding amount 
on the credit cards meant that had they applied at that time the application would have been 
refused on affordability grounds. It was agreed that Mr L and Ms L pay off, as they intended 
to do, the credit card liabilities from the proceeds of the sale of some premium bonds and 
then when this information had been processed through the credit information agencies 
system, showing no liabilities, that the application could then be processed.
But when it came to process the application, the incorrect figures were discovered, and 
Santander wouldnt sanction the additional borrowing on the lower correct figures. Santander 
told Ms L this on the 27 September.  Mr L and Ms L applied for a mortgage with a different 
lender which issued a mortgage offer on 3 October. Mr L and Ms Ls new mortgage 
completed on 7 November.
Santander accepted that there had been an error in recording the figures incorrectly and 
offered compensation of £100 and eventually £300. It also apologised for the error and 
refunded some interest from 3 to 27 September. Our investigator believed that this was a 
reasonable response from Santander and didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr L and Ms L disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been helped in considering this complaint by listening to the several phone calls that 
provide a history of the application. Its accepted that there was an error made and that 
compensation should be paid to Mr L and Ms L. They make the point that had the keying 
error not been made, they would have gone straight to a financial adviser to get an 
alternative lender and on the balance of probability, the application would have been 
successful, and they wouldnt have to pay the extra interest they did by remaining with 
Santander.  So, Mr L and Ms L say that should be reimbursed this extra interest which they 
could have avoided.
Santander by its error gave Mr L and Ms L a reasonable expectation that when it got around 
to doing the application that it wouldnt be refused on income grounds. They were entitled to 
be disappointed when it was. Ms L in a phone call used the word astounded which seems 
appropriate. I should add that the Santander adviser fairly admitted the error when 
discovered. Mr L and Ms L are entitled to be compensated for the that disappointment. 
But I dont agree that I should require Santander to go further and compensate them for their 
financial loss  Because of the high credit card balances Santander would have refused the 
application in August for affordability but gave Ms L advice on what to do and what to watch 
out for to ensure that when the credit references were asked for, they would be acceptable 
to the underwriters. 
I expect that in August had Mr L and Ms L approached another lender for a mortgage, 
because of the high levels of credit card debt, that that lender wouldnt have immediately 
accepted the application but would have waited to see if the anticipated credits to the cards 
made their way through the credit reference agencies system. I expect any other lender may 
have refused the application pending that. I appreciate that Mr L and Ms Ls new lender 
acted swiftly but this was after the information had fed through to the credit reference 
agencies and that facilitated the application together with the information Mr L and Ms L had 
to hand from the failed application. So, my view is that it was unlikely, even if Santander 
hadnt made a keying error on 12 August, that Ms L and Mr L would have got a mortgage 
offer earlier than they did. 
I note that after the mortgage offer issued in early October there was a period on which Mr L 
and Ms L remained on a higher rate with Santander pending the completion of the legal 
transfer. But that was unavoidable if Mr L and Ms L went to another lender and I cant say 
that was the fault of Santander. For these reasons I dont accept that Santander caused Mr 
and Ms L financial loss. 
As regards their trouble and upset, I have to assess the impact on them of their 
disappointment with Santanders service. I note that in the course of the phone calls Ms L 
had invested some time in building up a good relationship with Santander staff and now had 
to go elsewhere. Thankfully her concerns were eased by swiftly getting an offer elsewhere 
although they had hanging over them the extra cost of paying a mortgage on a higher rate 
for a period. I believe that its appropriate in coming an assessment of their compensation for 
their trouble and upset to put it in the context of what that extra cost was. So, I believe that a 
figure of £300 is appropriate. I understand that £200 of that has been paid and I will leave it 
to Santander to pay Mr and Ms L the balance. But for the reasons set out I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman