DRN-3924264
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr R had a travel insurance policy and the relevant parts were insured by 
Great Lakes. They were due to go on holiday from 19 April 2022 but they cancelled and 
claimed for the lost holiday costs on the policy. Their claim form said they cancelled the trip 
on 16 April 2022 because their car wasnt working. Great Lakes declined the claim, it said 
the policy didnt cover trip cancellation in those circumstances.
Mrs and Mr R then told Great Lakes theyd also cancelled the trip because of their  
daughters tonsilitis, which started on 14 April 2022. Great Lakes still wouldnt pay the claim 
as it didnt accept the cancellation was due to the illness.
Mrs and Mr R complained to us. In summary they said:
They made the claim saying their car was undrivable as they thought that was 
covered by the policy. Their daughters illness was another reason they couldnt 
travel but theyd mistakenly not included that reason on the initial claim form as they 
were unsure if the illness was relevant. Great Lakes wasnt contactable to tell them 
what was covered when they cancelled they holiday. 
Great Lakes said the policy did cover cancellation due to illness and it sent a medical 
form which their GP completed for a £50 fee. But Great Lakes still didnt pay the 
claim and it hadnt told them they couldnt make another claim because the initial 
claim wasnt covered.
Our investigator said Great Lakes fairly declined the claim and didnt need to pay the GP fee. 
He noted Mrs and Mr R told Great Lakes they would have taken a shorter holiday, when the 
car was fixed, if theyd known the claim wouldnt be covered because the car wasnt working.
Mrs and Mr R disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that their daughter 
had a high fever and was lethargic for at least a week so even if their car hadnt had a fault 
they still wouldnt have been able to go on holiday. They didnt cancel the trip as soon as 
their daughter became unwell as hoped she would recover in time to be able to travel, but 
she didnt. Also, they made the cancellation claim when pressurised for time due to the date 
of travel coinciding with their car not being fit to drive so that was at the forefront of their 
mind and the stress of the situation led them to not mention their daughters illness. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to decide if Great Lakes acted fairly and 
reasonably and I think it did. I dont uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
In the policy, under the heading cancellation, there is a list of insured reasons for when a 
trip cancellation claim could be covered. Im satisfied the reasons are clearly set out in the 
policy document so I dont think Mrs and Mr R were disadvantaged if Great Lakes wasnt 
available to discuss the cause of cancellation before they made the claim. 
The insured reasons include not being able to travel due to illness of the insured person or a 
relative. So its possible that cancellation due to Mrs and Mr Rs daughters illness could 
have been covered. The insured reasons set out in the policy dont include cancellation due 
to a vehicle not working.
When Mrs and Mr R submitted their first claim the reason they gave for cancellation was 
their car not working and they attached an invoice from the garage which they said showed 
their car was being repaired at the time they were due to travel. They didnt mention their 
daughters illness until after the claim was declined. 
Ive considered all Mrs and Mr R have said about why they didnt include their daughters 
illness in their first claim. But I think Great Lakes fairly and reasonably decided that the first 
reason Mrs and Mr R gave for cancellation was the correct or main reason. I say that 
because the illness began on 14 April but the trip was only cancelled on 16 April when the 
car developed a fault. And Mr Rs email to Great Lakes of 14 June 2022, in response to the 
decline of the first claim, says if hed known they werent covered for cancellation due to the 
car not working they could have taken the holiday albeit for a shortened period (at the time 
of cancellation I did not know when my vehicle would be available). I think the email doesnt 
support Mrs and Mr Rs comment that they couldnt have gone on holiday anyway because 
of their daughters illness.
Great Lakes doesnt have to reimburse Mrs and Mr R for the £50 GP fee to complete the 
medical certificate. The cost isnt covered by the policy. Also it was Mrs and Mr Rs decision 
to have cancellation due to their daughters illness considered and they needed to provide 
evidence to support their claim. Great Lakes did reconsider the claim and evidence Mrs and 
Mr R provided. It didnt decline the second claim because the initial claim wasnt covered. 
Great Lakes decided to decline the claim given all the circumstances, which I think was fair 
and reasonable for the reasons Ive given.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman