DRN-2444049
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his accounts without 
notice and wouldnt tell him why. 
What happened
Mr M and his partner were both completing account switches from another bank to NatWest. 
This was initially approved, but, after completing further checks, NatWest decided to close 
the accounts held by Mr M and his partner without giving prior notice.
Unhappy with this, Mr M raised a complaint (his partner complained separately). NatWest 
admitted to some issues with the service it had provided and paid £150 compensation. But it 
maintained that the account closures were completed in line with the terms and conditions of 
his accounts. 
Mr M then asked our service to look into his concerns about the account closures. He said 
hed lost money as he couldnt transfer his savings to another currency. He said hed also 
suffered loss of reputation and stress; and had to change his Christmas plans. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought NatWest was within its rights to 
close the accounts as it did, and it didnt need to give further reasoning for this.
In response, Mr M submitted some further points. He said hed checked with various 
organisations, such as credit reference and fraud prevention agencies, and hadnt found 
anything to explain why his accounts were closed without notice. He was unhappy that the 
funds werent released immediately. And that, when they were, they were paid into his 
partners account. He also said his partner had received a different response from NatWest 
despite raising the same concerns.
Our investigator explained that we look into cases on their individual merits. And it didnt 
seem that Mr M had lost out financially despite the funds being paid into his partners 
account. Given that NatWest had already paid him £150 compensation, she didnt think it 
needed to do anything more. She maintained that the closure itself was fair. 
As no agreement was reached, Im now deciding how this complaint should be resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that NatWest has already fairly resolved this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I can see that Mr M has checked our website and is aware of the general information on 
there about how we look into these types of complaints. As our investigator has explained, 
whilst that should help provide some context, we look into the individual circumstances of 
each complaint. 
Mr Ms key concern is that NatWest closed his accounts without notice or reasoning. So Ive 
checked what the account terms say about this. They explain that NatWest can close 
accounts immediately in certain circumstances: 
We can close any [non-basic or -foundation] account immediately if: 
we reasonably suspect that youve given us false information, which was a 
significant factor in our decision to open your account (or to continue to provide it 
to you);
we reasonably suspect that your account (or any other account you hold with us) 
is being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal purpose; 
you behave in a threatening or violent manner towards our staff; 
were required to do so by law or regulation; 
youre declared bankrupt;
youve entered into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors to repay your 
debts; or
youve used your account for business purposes 
NatWest closed Mr Ms accounts after completing additional credit checks following the 
account switching process. I appreciate Mr M wants more detail about this, but Im satisfied 
NatWest is entitled to rely on the checks it completed to close the accounts without notice. 
And that in doing so it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Thinking more broadly, NatWest has a choice over who its willing to provide services to. Its 
decided to no longer accept Mr M as a customer  and thats within its legitimate commercial 
discretion. Ive seen nothing to substantiate any allegations that NatWest has acted 
incorrectly or unlawfully discriminated against Mr M in reaching this decision.  
Mr M is unhappy that he didnt get access to his funds immediately following the account 
closures. I understand there was a large balance in a joint savings account, which was paid 
out around one month after NatWest initiated the account closure. I note that Mr Ms partner 
complained separately and isnt party to this complaint, so Im only considering this 
complaint from Mr Ms perspective. NatWest has explained that, in line with its internal 
policy, it was completing checks on the funds. This was undoubtedly inconvenient for Mr M. 
But such processes are in place to protect the bank and its customers. Im satisfied that 
NatWest followed its legal and regulatory obligations when completing these checks, so I 
dont find this to be an error on its part. 
Once the checks were completed, the funds were released. Mr M complains that these were 
paid into his partners sole account. Im conscious the funds were from a joint account, and 
NatWest says both Mr M and his partner provided different details for where these funds 
should be paid. Its also paid him £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Given 
that Mr M isnt alleging that hes lost access to this money going forward, Im not persuaded 
NatWest needs to do more to put this right.
I note there were also concerns raised about the initial account switching as Mr M says the 
intention was for him and his partner to switch to new sole accounts (rather than into their 
existing accounts). Regardless, once the checks were completed, NatWest closed all the 
accounts. So I dont think this has affected the position hes in now.NatWest admits there were times when it could have provided better service. Im satisfied 
the £150 compensation its already paid Mr M fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
he suffered due to its mistakes. Thinking about the crux of his complaint, Ive not found that 
NatWest acted in error by closing the accounts as it did. So Im not persuaded it needs to do 
anything else to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already fairly resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman