DRN-4207492
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how AutoMoney Limited trading as AutoMoney Motor Finance (AMF) 
treated his situation when he got into financial difficulty.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr K took a hire purchase agreement with AMF to fund the cost of a car. The 
car cost £21,490. The amount of credit was £19,888.42 and the total payable was 
£32,974.80. Mr K was due to pay an initial repayment of £562.78, then £513.78 for 58 
months, followed by a final repayment of £612.78.
Unfortunately, Mr K explained to AMF that he had lost his job in February 2022. AMF said it 
asked for details of Mr Ks employment and income and expenditure the same month. It said 
Mr K told it he would receive £140 every two weeks from benefits, and he offered to pay £40 
from this towards the agreement. AMF said it asked Mr K for evidence of this and explained 
this wasnt a suitable arrangement over the long term as this wasnt sustainable.
AMF then issued a default explaining £1,070.02 needed to be paid by 25 March 2022. This 
explained the total amount required to pay under the agreement, including a rebate 
allowance, was £11,395.45. This default notice said any amount from the sale of the car if it 
was repossessed would be deducted from the amount of £11,395.45.
Mr K didnt contact AMF before the default expired. AMF then defaulted the agreement. It 
sent Mr K a notice of intended vehicle repossession that explained his right to voluntarily 
surrender (VS) the car.
Shortly after this, Mr K told AMF he had begun training for a new job. But, AMF said he didnt 
provide evidence of this or the salary.
Later in April 2022, Mr K provided AMF with a conditional offer of employment. AMF said it 
asked Mr K for his pay date, a wage slip and an offer of payment and explained this was 
necessary to avoid the car being repossessed. It said it didnt receive a response to this and 
so a decision was made to repossess the car on 10 May 2022.
The car was then sold at auction for £15,863.20 and Mr K was told he had to pay a shortfall 
of £11,388.60 in June 2022. Mr K complained to AMF saying it shouldnt have repossessed 
the car and he shouldnt owe the balance.
AMF issued its final response in July 2022. It said, in summary, that it didnt need to get a 
court order to repossess Mr Ks car due to the amount paid towards the agreement. It said it 
offered Mr K the chance to get the car back by paying £1,977.58, but Mr K said he couldnt 
get this amount. It said the amount listed on the default notice that Mr K paid towards the 
agreement was incorrect, but it didnt think it had done anything else wrong. It offered Mr K 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K referred the complaint to our service. He said, in summary, that AMF repossessed the 
car without a court order when it shouldnt have, despite him being on a payment plan. He 
said the car was collected when he had evidence of a job offer. He said the amount he was 
told he owed was wrong.
As a resolution, Mr K said he should get back any money he paid to the agreement, three 
months salary from a job he lost and £10,000 for the emotional trauma caused.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said 
£100 was fair to reflect the incorrect information in the default notice. She said Mr K paid 
£5,319.58 towards the agreement and so hadnt paid over one third of the total due. She 
said this meant AMF didnt need a court order to repossess the car. And she didnt think 
Mr K had lost his potential job because of what happened.
Mr K disagreed. He said he had employment pending and AMF didnt need to repossess the 
car. Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion, so the case was passed to me 
to decide.
I sent Mr K and AMF a provisional decision on 4 May 2023. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
Mr K complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ks 
complaint about AMF.
What I need to consider here is whether AMF treated Mr K fairly and reasonably under the 
circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to take into account relevant law, 
regulations and good industry practice from the time. So, Ive firstly thought about what 
guidance and obligations AMF had to follow.
There are a number of requirements set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the 
Principles for Business handbook (PRIM).
PRIM 2.1.1 6 sets out that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The FCA also sets out responsibilities in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 7.3.4 sets out:
A firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to give some examples of treating a consumer with forbearance:
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
allowing deferment of payment of arrears
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover from an unexpected income shock
Its also worth explaining here that AMF shouldve considered Mr Ks personal situation at 
the time. I say this as hed told it hed lost his job when he got into financial difficulty.The FCA published its finalised guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable 
customers in February 2021  so this applied when Mr K told AMF about his financial 
difficulty.
This gives the definition of a vulnerable consumer as:
someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to harm, 
particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care
Given Mr K had lost his job, he met one of the life events associated with being a driver for 
vulnerability in the guidance. So, AMF needed to also consider Mr Ks situation.
There are a few different aspects to this complaint, so Ill address these in turn.
Repossession
Mr K complains that AMF repossessed the car without a court order. AMF wouldve needed 
to have obtained a court order to repossess the car if Mr K had paid at least a third of the 
total amount payable under the agreement.
Looking at the total amount payable, one third of this wouldve been around £10,858.79.
From the statement of account and deposit, it appears Mr K had paid a total of £5,659.58 
towards the agreement. It follows this that Im satisfied AMF didnt need a court order to 
repossess the car.
Ive thought about the overall circumstances that led to the repossession. It isnt in dispute 
that Mr K didnt meet the terms of the default notice that was sent to him. And, while he did 
explain to AMF close to the time the car was repossessed that he had a job offer, I do need 
to consider that this was a conditional offer. And I dont think it was unreasonable for AMF 
to ask for the further details about this that it did.
So, in broad terms, I dont think under the circumstances that AMF repossessed the car 
unfairly. But, I do think it shouldve done more to look into any other options Mr K had. Ill 
come onto this below.
When considering the repossession, its worth noting the default notice that Mr K was sent. I 
appreciate AMF has already acknowledged this contained incorrect information and it has 
apologised for this.
But, I need to consider what this said. This explained that any net proceeds from the sale of 
the car would be deducted from the amount of £11,395.45. I appreciate this figure is 
incorrect, but I dont think this letter makes it clear that Mr K would also be liable for the 
interest due in this situation. So I can see why Mr K was confused when the car sold for 
several thousand pounds more than this, but he was still left with a significant debt. While I 
dont think it was unfair to repossess the car, Im satisfied AMF gave Mr K misleading 
information about what would happen if the car was repossessed.
AMFs overall obligations
When considering the overall situation, Ive considered if AMF acted fairly and reasonably 
here.
When Mr K told AMF about his situation, I appreciate it asked him for some more details 
about this. But, I cant see it did anything further than this or offered any other help.Ive also considered AMFs actual losses here. The cash price of the car was £23,480. AMF 
received £15,873 from the sale at auction. And Mr K, as above, appears to have paid 
£5,659.58 towards the agreement. So, this means AMF has lost about £1,947.42 from 
whats happened.
So, this means the vast amount of what AMF is now saying Mr K owes it is interest, on 
money lent that was largely returned to it when the car was sold.
Thinking about this, it doesnt seem fair and reasonable to hold Mr K liable for over £11,000 
when AMF has had a loss of much lower than this. I say this as Im satisfied this is not acting 
with due regard to Mr Ks interests, treating him fairly nor treating his situation with 
forbearance and due consideration.
That being said, I do appreciate AMF has had another loss for the time where Mr K owed it 
funds and AMF was entitled to interest, but it didnt receive payments.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr K says because the car was repossessed, he lost an offer of employment. But, I havent 
seen enough to persuade me this was most likely the case. That being said, I do think hes 
been caused some distress because of what happened. I think AMF shouldve done more to 
meet its obligations set out by the FCA. By not doing, and by holding Mr K to account for the 
full amount of interest due, I think hes been caused upset.
Mr K says he thinks he should be given £10,000 because of this. But, I dont think this is 
reasonable. As above, I dont think its reasonable to charge Mr K the whole amount of 
interest. But, I do think there was a period when interest was legitimately due on the 
agreement and wasnt paid. I dont know what this exact figure is. But, thinking about whats 
fair and reasonable, along with Mr Ks situation, rather than making a separate award for 
distress and inconvenience I think AMF should limit Mr Ks liability to the £1,947.42 that it 
lost out on from the situation.
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence. 
AMF didnt respond. 
Mr K got in touch. He made several points and sent in some evidence. In summary, Mr K 
said he still thought the car was repossessed illegally and this caused him a lot of stress. He 
said AMF didnt make him aware the car was being repossessed and hed just put fuel in it. 
Mr K said he shouldnt owe AMF anything and it should compensate him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered everything Mr K sent in response to my provisional decision. 
Firstly, I was sorry to hear about Mr Ks recent health issue and I wish him a speedy 
recovery. 
I know how strongly Mr K feels that this situation has lost him employment. But, I still havent 
seen enough to persuade me that AMF have directly caused this. So, I still dont think it is 
responsible here.I also think Mr Ks argument that he shouldnt owe AMF anything wouldnt be reasonable. Im 
satisfied Ive explained why this is the case above and I still think my opinion here is fair.
Mr K also feels strongly that he should be compensated by AMF for what happened. I should 
make it clear to Mr K that Im satisfied my decision means he is getting compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. As above, AMF have legitimately lost out on interest 
due here, and I appreciate it may have other costs involved in lending the money to Mr K 
that werent mentioned. But, I still think rather than AMF directly paying compensation to 
Mr K, and instead not passing these costs onto him, fairly compensates him for the situation.
Im satisfied the other points Mr K made and the evidence sent in has already been 
considered in my provisional decision which is set out above  so I wont repeat myself here. 
But I do want to reassure Mr K that Ive carefully thought about everything he told us in his 
response and considered all of his comments.
Having thought about all of the information on this case again, along with Mr Ks response, I 
still think this complaint should be upheld. And I still think what I previously set out is fair and 
reasonable to put things right. This is due to the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct AutoMoney Limited  trading as 
AutoMoney Motor Finance to put things right by doing the following:
Limit Mr Ks liability under the agreement to £1,947.42* **
Update Mr Ks credit record to reflect this
* I have assumed Mr K hasnt made further payments towards this agreement. If he has, 
AMF should reduce this amount by whats been paid
**I would politely remind AMF that the FCAs guidance about financial difficulties, and the 
guidance about vulnerable consumers, may apply to Mr Ks current situation. It should treat 
this with forbearance and due consideration. This should include setting up an affordable 
repayment plan for this amount, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman