DRN-3948900
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited has administered her home 
insurance policy. And that it hasnt assisted her with issues she has experienced with some 
renovation work to her property.
What happened
Ms C initially phoned Fairmead to check if she would still be insured while renovation works 
were carried out on her property. Ms C was told that if the works cost in excess of £100,000 
her policy would have to be cancelled. The conversation was left that Ms C would call back 
once it was decided how the renovation works would progress.
Ms C went on to have the works completed in two stages. A loft extension was completed 
without issue; however, the side extension ran into problems. There were issues with the 
quality of the build and Ms C reports damage was caused to her property.
Ms C had a legal expenses insurance policy combined with her home insurance policy, so 
she made a claim on this for assistance with legal costs associated with taking action 
against the builder. This was declined as there was an exclusion in the policy that contracts 
related to building works are not covered under the policy.
Ms C took action against the builder privately and the matter was mediated to a conclusion. 
However, the builder then liquidated, and Ms C was left with an unfinished project and 
damage to her home, with no way of rectifying it.
Ms C then approached Fairmead for assistance but it declined to help saying there was no 
cover under her home insurance policy for the issues she wished to claim for. It explained, 
had Ms C called them back to say the renovations were going ahead she would have been 
informed about the exclusions which applied in the policy. These essentially restricted the 
cover available and made it clear that damage caused by the builders or related to the 
building work, would not be covered under the policy.
Ms C was unhappy about this and that Fairmead overall has not provided her with any 
assistance with the issues she has experienced.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 19 January 2023. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I understand Ms C has strong views about what has happened, and shes explained how 
much this has impacted her. I want to assure her Ive read and considered carefully 
everything shes said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms C, and by Fairmead, to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I dont think Fairmead would have been able to provide assistance to Ms C 
in respect of the issues she has experienced. However, I do think it could have been clearer 
in its initial call with her to manage her expectations on the extent of insurance coverage she 
would have if building works went ahead. So I will be making an award of compensation. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
The legal expenses insurance section of the policy does contain an exclusion which 
means any breach of a contract which is associated with building work would not be 
covered. So Ms C was correctly informed her claim for assistance with legal 
expenses would not be covered. This isnt an unusual exclusion and so I dont think it 
would have needed to be specifically highlighted to her.
In respect of home insurance policies, it isnt unusual for exclusions to apply for the 
duration of any such building works. Insurers will choose what risks they are 
prepared to cover and usually those associated with renovations/property alterations 
arent ones home insurers will ordinarily cover. This is due to the fact, as Ms C has 
unfortunately experienced, things can go wrong, and the proper recourse is generally 
against the builder directly.
This isnt to say no cover would be provided for the home, but that it would continue 
based on the normal insured perils and claims unrelated to the building work would 
be covered according to the terms and conditions of the policy.
When Ms C called to speak with Fairmead to discuss the proposed works, the 
conversation centred around the cost of the works being in excess of £100,000 and 
therefore overall Fairmead wouldnt be happy to continue insuring the property whilst 
such works are undertaken. However, Ms C said it hadnt been decided yet which 
works would take place and that the cost might be less than that. The agent advised 
if that was the case the policy could continue with exclusions  but she didnt provide 
any more detail on what those exclusions were. The conversation was left that Ms C 
would call back.
Ms C didnt call Fairmead back, and therefore she wasnt informed of the exclusions 
that would apply in the policy when building works started. However, I dont think this 
means that Fairmead shouldnt be able to rely on them now. As I have explained 
above, they are reasonably standard exclusions.
But I do think Fairmead missed the opportunity on the call to explain further what 
exclusions would apply if she did continue with building works under the £100,000 
threshold and what that would mean in practice. i.e. it didnt mean her home 
insurance policy would cover anything that may go wrong with the building works.
Had it of done so, Ms C may have realised that in order to insure against anything 
going wrong with the building work itself or any damage caused by it, she would need 
to separately seek a specialist insurance policy. Im not suggesting a specialist 
insurance policy would have covered the circumstances Ms C experienced, it may 
not have done. Simply that I think Fairmead could have done more here.
Ms C has mentioned she couldnt easily access her policy documents to check what 
cover the policy provided, as they were on a secure portal. She explains that is why 
she phoned Fairmead and relied on what she was told. However, I dont think that 
changes my decision here. Ms C called simply to notify Fairmead she was having 
building work done. She didnt ask for a copy of the policy document to be sent to her 
or did the agent go so far as to tell her that everything was covered. As Ive pointed 
out above the agent did mention exclusions would apply.I understand from what Ms C has said, this matter as a whole has had a significant 
impact on her. However, I have to separate that from what Fairmead has done 
wrong. Here, the policy wouldnt have provided assistance to Ms C for the 
circumstances in which she needed it. However, as I have explained above, I think 
Fairmead could have done more to aid Ms Cs understanding of the situation and as 
such I think it should pay her compensation of £250 to reflect this.
Ms C has said if the policy didnt provide the cover she thought it did, then she would 
like her premiums returned with interest. I wont be asking Fairmead to return the 
premiums paid for the policy as it did provide a level of cover for her home and 
contents (subject to exclusions) while the building work was happened.
Ms C has said that she thinks the home insurance policy was mis-sold to her. As I 
understand it, the policy was taken out via a comparison website and therefore, she 
would need to direct such a complaint accordingly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead did not respond to my findings.
Ms C reiterated that she was told by the agent on the phone that she was covered for 
building work up to £100,000. She cant recall being told there would be exclusions and 
thinks these would then cancel out what she was told. She mentions the call I have listened 
to isnt a full copy as there was a discussion about Fairmead possibly increasing the amount 
of building work allowed to £135,000. She questions if I have been provided with the full call 
and why Fairmead would supposedly delete this for data protection reasons. 
Ms C also confirms she has been able to get insurance were the cover remains intact when 
building work is ongoing. And reiterates she would have got this insurance if she was told 
the building work wasnt covered. 
Ms C says the Fairmead agent gave her the wrong information and therefore she believes 
Fairmead should be held accountable for this and the impact it has had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Ms C has said, however Im not minded to change my outcome or 
intended settlement. 
In my provisional decision I recognised that Ms C may well have been able to get a specialist 
insurance policy which covered any issues which happen with the renovations, so I wouldnt 
need to see the policy she has been able to source. 
In the call, at the point where it was thought the building works would breach the £100,000 
upper limit, it was also explained to Ms C and that she could go on a comparison website to 
search for such policies. But some may add exclusions for different things. But the agent 
agreed that she should be able to get cover without issue.  There was also discussion about 
the reasons why Fairmead dont cover higher value renovations and the risks involved.
There are essentially three different scenarios that will happen in cases such as this, an 
insurer provides no cover (which was the original scenario), it covers the existing structure 
but not anything related the renovations works (which is what happened) or it covers the existing structure and some risks associated with the renovations (a specialist bespoke 
policy).
Here the issue is Fairmead continued covered the existing structure but the exclusions in the 
policy meant issues related to the renovations wouldnt be covered. So the policy did still 
provide insurance cover to the property. Ive listened to the call again and the agent did 
mention exclusions would apply however, as Ms C didnt call back as she said she would, 
she didnt get to hear what those exclusions were. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I think Fairmead could have aided Ms Cs 
understanding a little more. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Fairmead 
responsible for putting right the issues Ms C experienced with build as it wasnt wholly 
responsible for the misunderstanding she had. 
On the call I listened to, the agent did give her opinion that the building work limit might have 
to be reviewed due the cost of works people are now having done. No amount was 
specifically mentioned so this might have been in a different call.  From listening to the call, I 
cant identify any areas where the call could have been stopped, the conversation flowed 
naturally between the parties with no break. In any event, from what I did hear, I think it was 
enough for me to make the decision that I have.  
So the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Fairmead to pay Ms C £250 compensation.
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay Ms C £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited. I 
direct it to pay Ms C £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman