DRN-3274732
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with an international payment 
out of her account.
What happened
Mrs C says she attended a Nationwide branch to transfer just under £60,000 to her sister in 
the United States of America (USA). She says she provided the account details of her sister 
as well as the required codes of the receiving bank. Mrs C says the money was returned to 
her account but less £2,066 caused by exchange rate differences. She says Nationwide 
made a number of mistakes on the sending form which included the account number of her 
sister and by recording an incorrect name, namely her name which I will call L in the 
address section for the beneficiary. Mrs C would like the money she lost refunded as well as 
the transaction fee.
Nationwide says it hasnt made a mistake and says Mrs C was asked to check and sign the 
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) form which she did. 
It says the money was returned by the beneficiarys bank and its not responsible for the 
exchange rate loss.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs C signed the SWIFT document and ought to have checked its accuracy. And 
thought although there were mistakes in the information that was recorded, Mrs C had an 
opportunity to check that information.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and says she gave the correct information to Nationwide and 
was sitting outside an office with a screen between her and the staff member. She says she 
had not seen a SWIFT transfer form before and could see the relevant boxes were 
completed and assumed they were correct when signing the form.
I asked Mrs C for further information about what took place and in summary she told me she 
gave Nationwide a document containing the correct details by passing it through a plastic 
screen between her and the Nationwide staff member. She says she did check the form she 
was presented with and says she was told the address section would contain her name so 
that the receiver of the money would know where it came from and could see the form asked 
for either the account number or IBAN and so she didnt question what Nationwide had 
recorded as one of them was recorded. Mrs C says she couldnt see the screen the 
Nationwide staff member was using and would have been unaware of any mistakes after 
she looked at the form.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.
And I came to the provisional view that I upheld this complaint.
I was satisfied that Mrs C was not an expert on these types of transactions and said she had 
not seen a SWIFT form before asking Nationwide to make this transfer. I said I would have 
expected Nationwide to have completed the form correctly and explained the process to Mrs 
C. I appreciated Mrs C was given the form to check but my provisional view was that the 
form was incorrect in respect of a number of parts and that Mrs C was reasonably entitled to 
have assumed it had been correctly completed or was accurate for the reasons I would 
explain.
I looked carefully at the information Mrs C provided Nationwide with and at the SWIFT form 
Nationwide completed. I was satisfied the information Mrs C provided was accurate and I 
thought that she did provide that information to Nationwide in the form of a document. I could 
see that Nationwide incorrectly recorded the beneficiarys account number, incorrectly 
recorded Mrs Cs account number and inserted the name L in the beneficiarys address 
section.
I thought it likely Mrs C did review the form and questioned it. I also thought on balance that 
Mrs C was told that her name would be inserted into the form to evidence where it originated 
from and was entitled to consider the form was accurate as it contained either the IBAN on 
account number. I didnt think it reasonable for Mrs C to have questioned the Nationwide 
staff member in any greater detail and was reasonably entitled to assume the staff member 
was correct about recording her name in the address section. And I didnt think Mrs C could 
have known what was then inputted into Nationwides systems or could have known 
mistakes were made. I couldnt see how Mrs Cs name was recorded in the address section 
unless the staff member did so and so I said it follows that the staff member must have 
thought that correct. In those circumstances I said Mrs C would have been reasonably 
entitled to conclude the staff member was correct in doing so and so I wouldnt have 
expected her to have questioned it any further than she did. I also thought that the staff 
member having made a deliberate decision to record L in the address section would have 
reassured Mrs C that was correct and not a mistake.
I didnt think it reasonable to have expected Mrs C to have noticed and pointed out all of 
those errors and was reasonably entitled to conclude Nationwide would have least recorded 
her account details correctly and recorded the correct beneficiarys details instead of 
recording part of her name. I thought it likely that Nationwide was responsible for the 
mistakes as it was clear that part of Mrs Cs name should not have been recorded in the 
beneficiarys address section and I made clear that Nationwide ought to have recorded the 
account details correctly. I thought it likely that again Mrs C reviewed the document and 
could see that the form asked for IBAN or account details and in those circumstances was 
reasonably entitled to conclude the form did contain one of those numbers. I thought it was 
for Nationwide to record the correct one in the correct section and that it would not have 
been reasonable for Mrs C to have questioned that any more than she did.
I appreciated the recoding of Mrs Cs account details may not have been the reason the 
payment was returned but I thought it provided additional evidence of Nationwides mistakes.
I also appreciated that Mrs C was given the form to sign which I saw she did. But I made 
clear that I thought Mrs C was entitled to rely on what I think she was told by Nationwide and 
what she saw on the form and that she was not responsible for what was inputted. I made 
clear that Mrs C is not the expert here and that she provided the correct information in the 
form she gave to the staff member. 
 I said there was no dispute that the payment was sent back to Nationwide which resulted in 
an exchange rate loss to Mrs C of £2,066.44. My provisional view was that Nationwide was responsible for that loss as it made numerous mistakes in the SWIFT form. And I didnt think 
the mistakes would have been obvious to Mrs C or that it would have been reasonable to 
have expected her to question why for example Nationwide recorded L in the beneficiarys 
section when that was done by Nationwide staff who had the correct document and when 
she was told why her name was inserted. I couldnt be sure for which exact reason the 
receiving bank sent the money back as there were three mistakes in the form and thought it 
likely that any one of the mistakes could have resulted in the payment not being completed.
Mrs C has accepted my provisional view and Nationwide has said it doesnt wish to add 
anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mrs C £2,066.44.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs C £2,066.44 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman