DRN-4138646
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the application of end of contract damage charges by Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
Mrs B took out a hire agreement with MBFS in May 2019 and returned the car at the end. 
When she did MBFS inspected it more than once and applied damage charges of £1,160.40 
which were later reduced to £690.40.
Mrs B is unhappy with MBFS and the charges. In summary she says:
It only identified three items of damage in the initial inspection when the car was 
collected so it shouldnt be charging her for more than this.
MBFS did not tell her there would be a follow up inspection  and the extra damage 
could have been caused after the car was collected  which wouldnt be her fault.
The charges MBFS has applied are excessive and the repairs to the door scratches 
could have been completed for less (she says a body-shop told her this would cost 
less than £100).
During the initial inspection she was told by the collection agent the car was going 
straight to auction and that the charges (if any) would be minimal.
She has been stressed out by initially getting such a high invoice for damages which 
was then reduced substantially  she feels she was misled and taken advantage of.
Mrs B complained to MBFS. It confirmed the charges would stand and did not believe these 
were caused in transit. It said it wrote off the prior charges because it did not have sufficient 
evidence to show these were present on collection of the car. 
Our investigator looked into things. In summary, she concluded that it was right for MBFS to 
remove the charges it did. Of the outstanding charges she concluded:
The scuff damage to the quarter panel arch extension RH was present on collection 
and is fairly chargeable under the MBFS return standards.
The door LHR and RHF scratches were present on collection and are fairly 
chargeable under the return standards  except the level of these seemed excessive 
so should be reduced by 50%.
The spoke damage to the wheel LHF is fairly chargeable but the spoke damage to 
the wheel RHF is not as it wasnt clearly shown on the first inspection, and she 
wasnt confident it hadnt been caused in transit in the particular circumstances here.
The investigator also noted the customer journey Mrs B had been through had caused her 
unnecessary aggravation and upset. So she felt it fair MBFS reduce the outstanding charges 
by another £100 to reflect this. She told MBFS to amend the outstanding charges as directed 
and remove any adverse information in relation to the payment of these from Mrs Ws credit 
file if applicable.
Mrs B agreed with the investigator. MBFS broadly agreed too  however, it said it could not 
presently accept the direction to reduce the cost of the repairs to the doors  it says its 
pricing matrix outlines these costs and allows the customer to come to an informed decision 
about them. It wants more evidence as to how our investigator had decided the proposed 
reduction was fair.
As the parties have not agreed the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MBFS has not agreed with the reduction in repair costs for the scratched doors I am 
doing a final decision on this case. Because the parties have broadly agreed with our 
investigator I dont consider it necessary to focus on all aspects of this complaint in detail. 
However, in the interest of completeness I will cover my findings on some key matters.
The basis for MBFS charging for damage is contained within the terms and conditions of the 
hire agreement which Mrs B agreed to. In it there is an expectation that the car will be 
returned in a particular condition and that any damage beyond fair wear and tear will be 
chargeable.
I have considered the MBFS return standards which Mrs B agreed to. Where relevant I have 
considered the updated standards (for example where they differ from those in the 
agreement) in order to decide what is fair.
I have also taken into account the relevant industry standards from the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) where necessary to do so (for example where the MBFS 
return standards are unclear).
Damage charges
In considering the application of damage charges I have noted that two inspections were 
carried out on the car by MBFS and additional chargeable damage was identified in the 
second. 
I also take into account that the second inspection was carried out around five days after the 
first and with the car having travelled an additional 500 miles. With this in mind I think where 
chargeable damage has been identified in the second inspection that was not clear in the 
first there needs to be particular scrutiny in this case as to whether it might (as Mrs B says) 
been caused in transit. As it wouldnt be fair for Mrs B to pay for damage which occurred 
while the car was not in her possession.
Firstly, and in the interest of completeness I have broadly considered the damage charges 
which MBFS has written off already and agree that it was fair and reasonable for it to do so 
in the circumstances because either the nature or cause of said damage was not clear.
I turn, briefly to the revised damage charges which MBFS had said Mrs B should pay and 
whether these are fair and reasonable.Quarter panel arch right  scuffed
The MBFS return standards state that gouged bumpers which require replacement, plastic 
welding or painting are not acceptable. I can see from the second inspection that the plastic 
looks gouged/scuffed requiring repair and I note the damage was present from the photos in 
the first inspection. So I am satisfied this damage is chargeable and note that Mrs B has 
accepted this.
Wheel spoke damage  LHF+RHF
I can see from both inspection reports there is damage identified to the rim and spoke on the 
LHF wheel. In the return standards in the hire agreement scuffs/damage above 25mm to the 
alloy/rim or wheel face are not acceptable. The marks appear to exceed this. I also note the 
updated return standards allow 50mm however they also say that damage to the spokes is 
not acceptable. While I note the pictures could be clearer Mrs B appears to accept this 
damage was present on collection and has agreed it is fair she pays for this. Overall I 
consider this damage is fairly chargeable.  
The damage to the RHF wheel in the second inspection does not appear to have been 
picked up in the first inspection. Given the concerns noted above regarding the time and 
mileage between the two inspections I consider it fair and reasonable to write this charge off. 
I note that MBFS has agreed with this. 
Door LHR+RHF scratched
The MBFS return standards state that scratches which go through the basecoat of paint are 
not acceptable. It isnt clear if the mark on the LHR door goes through the basecoat of paint. 
However, it appears to be between 50mm and 75mm on a body panel. Looking at the MBFS 
return standards in the agreement and those updated more recently (which specify a scratch 
length of 25mm being acceptable) I think this is fairly chargeable as more than fair wear and 
tear.
The second scratch on the RHF does look like it goes down to the bare metal, so this is fairly 
chargeable too.
From the evidence I have seen (photos and video) the damage to the doors was present 
during the first inspection even if it might not have been initially focused on.  I note that Mrs 
B appears to now accept this damage was present and is fairly chargeable too.
Customer journey
All parties have agreed that £100 additional compensation is fair to reflect some of the 
customer service experience that Mrs B has had from MBFS in respect of the damage 
charges. In my mind this is a fair amount, particularly considering what MBFS initially told 
Mrs B she had to pay (later significantly reduced) in the context of the mileage and time from 
first inspection to the second. This has understandably caused Mrs B unnecessary upset 
and stress.
I note that although Mrs B was unhappy with the collection agent and how she felt she was 
led to believe there was no second inspection for further charges to be determined  MBFS 
has provided examples of its earlier communication which clearly state there will be a 
second inspection. So I dont think this is a reason to write off further charges.The cost of the repair to the doors
This is the issue which MBFS has not fully agreed with our investigator on. Mrs B has said 
the charges which MBFS has applied are excessive and much more than she could have 
paid to get the repairs done herself. However, MBFS has indicated that Mrs B would have 
known its pricing matrix for charges for damage and could make an informed choice to have 
repairs done herself.
I note Mrs B wasnt necessarily aware of chargeable scratches to the doors in order to get 
them fixed in advance of collection by MBFS. However, more saliently regardless of whether 
she left it to MBFS to have repairs done or arranged these herself MBFS should still act fairly 
in respect of the charges. While there will naturally be some variability in charges between 
providers those charges need to be proportionate to the loss MBFS has likely suffered as a 
result of said damage. 
In this case there are two apparently similar and relatively minor (although in excess of the 
return standards) marks on the same colour bodywork which on the face of it do not appear 
to warrant two separate charges for scratch touch up totalling £420. I also note the possible 
economies of scale in doing both of these repairs at the same time.
Our investigator has questioned this and given MBFS the opportunity to explain more about 
how it has justified the application of two separate charges of £210 here. However, it has 
come back without doing so and simply said these are its charges as outlined in the prixing 
matrix. It has also asked our investigator to justify a reduction, but I think it would have been 
fair for it to show more persuasively why it considers the charge of £420 reflects its 
loss/likely losses in light of the individual circumstances here. So overall (and noting this is 
not an exact science) I consider it fair to ask MBFS to reduce the charge by half as our 
investigator has done.
Putting things right
MBFS should write off the charge for the RHF wheel (£110) and reduce the charges to repair 
the LHR+RHF door by 50% (to £210 rather than £420). It should also reduce the overall 
charges by another £100 to reflect the customer services issues identified. It should then 
produce a revised bill for Mrs B to show what she now owes (I am not sure why MBFS has 
indicated it cant produce a revised bill  but this seems like a reasonable request to me). 
I dont believe that MBFS has added adverse information to Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
the outstanding charges to date  but if it has done it should remove these.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to reduce 
Mrs Bs current bill for damages by £420.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman