DRN-3211278
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain about their insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Their complaint 
is about the offer made by AXA to settle a claim for damage to a laptop under their home 
insurance policy. 
Reference to AXA includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R had a laptop that was accidentally damaged in July 2021, so they contacted 
AXA to make a claim. AXA appointed a specialist (BV) to validate and manage the claim. 
Mrs R and Mr R also obtained a report from a specialist firm (at a cost of £35) that concluded 
their laptop couldnt be repaired. Having inspected the laptop, BV offered a replacement they 
thought was the nearest equivalent to Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop, as their model was bought 
four years earlier and no longer made. The replacement offered was a different make to Mrs 
R and Mr Rs laptop, and they werent happy with it as they wanted a replacement of the 
same make as their laptop, so they declined the offer.
BV then offered a cash settlement to Mrs R and Mr R, based on the cost of the replacement 
model offered (£581.99). Deducting the £350 excess applicable under the policy, this meant 
a net offer of £231.99. Mrs R and Mr R werent happy at the offer, as the cost of the 
replacement was some £200 less than what theyd paid for their laptop. Mrs R and Mr R 
subsequently purchased a new laptop of their choice.
Unhappy at the replacement and the cash settlement offered, Mrs R and Mr R complained to 
AXA. They also wanted reimbursement for the cost of the report theyd obtained. AXA didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response, they said as Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop model 
was no longer available, the laptop offered was the closest replacement available based on 
specification. On the cash settlement, AXA said the policy terms and conditions meant the 
offer wouldnt exceed what theyd have paid BV to replace the laptop. On the cost of the 
report, AXA said theyd look to reimburse Mrs R and Mr R if they could provide an invoice.
Mrs R and Mr R then complained to this service. They were unhappy at being offered a 
replacement laptop of a different make to theirs and that the cash settlement offer was 
based on a figure less than the cost of their laptop. They also wanted to be reimbursed for 
the cost of the report theyd obtained.
Our investigator concluded AXA didnt need to take any action. He thought the replacement 
laptop offered was better than Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop, based on its specification. While the 
replacement was cheaper than Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop, technology had evolved since Mrs 
R and Mr R bought their laptop, so the replacement was newer and had new technology. On 
the cash settlement, the investigator thought it was fair, based on the cost to AXA of the 
replacement laptop, as this was in line with the policy terms and conditions. On the cost of 
the report, the investigator noted what AXA had said about reimbursing the cost to Mrs R 
and Mr R and thought this was fair.
Mrs R and Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. Mrs R and Mr R said that AXA should have offered a replacement 
based on the make (and model) of their laptop, not what they considered to be a model from 
a different, cheaper make. They were also unhappy at the cash settlement offer being based 
on the discounted cost of the replacement model offered (not the cost of their own laptop).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mrs R and Mr R.
The two key issues in Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint are, first, that they werent offered a 
replacement of the same make for their laptop. Second, that the cash settlement should be 
based on the cost of their laptop, not the cost of the replacement offered by AXA.
 
On the first issue, Ive considered what Mrs R and Mr R have said, together with the 
evidence. From BVs Validation Report, the specification for Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop and the 
replacement look similar. And in some respects, the replacement includes newer/better 
features. AXA say that the replacement model was selected by BV to be the nearest 
equivalent to Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop. Based on the report Im persuaded this is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mrs R and Mr Rs view that they expected to be offered a replacement of the 
same make, but I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to have offered a replacement of a 
different make, if the specification is the nearest equivalent available.
Ive also considered what the policy terms and conditions say about how claims will be 
settled, with reference to how replacements will be provided. Under Part 3  Claims it states:
How your insurer will settle claims
Buildings, contents and personal possessions claims
Your insurer may repair, reinstate or replace your damaged property. If your insurer 
cant replace or repair your property they may pay for the loss or damage in cash or 
in a cash alternative
Where your insurer can offerreplacement through a preferred supplier, but then 
agree to pay a cashsettlement, then payment will not be more than the amount 
they would have paid their preferred supplier.
Looking at these conditions, as it was clear that Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop couldnt be 
repaired then it was reasonable for AXA (through BV) to offer a replacement. While Mrs R 
and Mr R would have wanted a replacement of the same make, this isnt specifically required 
by the policy terms and conditions. BV told us that theyd endeavour to do so, but their 
primary instruction from AXA is to offer a replacement on a like for like basis. I think that 
matching (or bettering) the specification of Mrs R and Mr Rs laptop is a reasonable 
approach to take. 
Turning to the second key issue of the complaint, the cash settlement offered, Mrs R and Mr 
R say that it was unfair for AXA to base the offer on the cost of the replacement laptop 
offered (£581.99) rather than the price they paid for their laptop (£800). AXA say the policy 
terms and conditions meant the offer wouldnt exceed what theyd have paid BV to replace 
the laptop. Looking at the terms and conditions, I agree with AXAs view. In this case, AXA offered a cash settlement as an alternative because Mrs R and Mr R 
werent prepared to accept the replacement laptop offered. The last part of the terms and 
conditions above make it clear that the cash settlement offer in those circumstances will be 
the amount they (AXA) would have paid their preferred supplier. As theyve acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, Ive concluded AXA acted fairly and reasonably in making 
their cash settlement offer.
The other issue in Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint is that they want AXA to reimburse the cost 
of the report they obtained (£35). Ive noted that AXA have said they would look to reimburse 
the cost if Mrs R and Mr R could provide them with a copy of the invoice. Mrs R and Mr R 
say that theyve already done this, but I think that it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
reimburse the cost (as theyve indicated they would if Mrs R and Mr R can provide another 
copy of the invoice) and Id expect AXA to do this.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that AXA acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering a replacement laptop and also in offering a cash settlement based on the cost of the 
replacement laptop offered, as an alternative way to settle the claim. I also think its 
reasonable to offer to reimburse the cost of the report obtained by Mrs R and Mr R, on 
production of a copy of the invoice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman