DRN-4024978
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) failed to 
manage the repairs to their home following a claim on their home insurance policy. Theyve 
experienced delays, poor workmanship and poor customer service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim for repairs following a leak to their home in September 2021. AA 
accepted the claim however, Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with how the repairs progressed.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that it took over a month before an electrician checked the 
electrics following the leak  the electrics often fused when the lights were switched on, 
which led to Mr and Mrs D being concerned about their own safety. 
In February 2022, a plumber removed the bathroom and left it on the drive where items were 
stolen. Rubble was left in the bath on the drive. This caused issues later as AA were 
expecting items to be re-used. No alternative washing facilities were provided when the 
bathroom was unserviceable, and the water was switched off. Mr and Mrs D were distressed 
by the attitude and workmanship of the plumber who fitted the new toilet.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the fitted bathroom  they said the taps dribbled and had 
no pressure. Using the bath and shower led to noises with the drain. A plumber was sent out 
to review the work in April and then May. The plumbers said the bathroom was all working 
correctly, but Mr and Mrs D disagreed with this.
There were issues with missed appointments (plastering and decoration) and AA informing 
Mr and Mrs D all was OK, when there were outstanding issues still not repaired. Ten months 
on, Mr and Mrs D were still unhappy the repairs had not been completed to their satisfaction.
AA acknowledged its contractors had caused multiple delays. It said, our contractor had to 
shut the water off to your bathroom in February 2022 in preparation of the reinstatement, 
during this stage there has been issues with the damaged replacement toilet, inability to 
access the pipe to replace the radiator and a secondary leak once the toilet had been 
removed. It said it hadnt yet settled the claim in full, but it paid Mr and Mrs D a total of £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He decided to award a further £350 
compensation as he didnt think AAs initial payment of compensation fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays and missed appointments and he thought 
alternative accommodation shouldve been offered. AA disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023. I said:
AA has acknowledged that its standard of service fell below a reasonable level and has paid 
£250 compensation to reflect the difficulties it has caused. Therefore, Ive stepped back and 
determined whether I think this fairly compensates Mr and Mrs D. I dont think it has and Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs D were left without a serviceable bathroom. AA said it offered them alternative 
accommodation during this period. Mr and Mrs D have contested this. I have checked and 
there is no evidence on file to show this was offered. If it was offered, I wouldve expected to 
see this in the claim notes. I can see Mr and Mrs D had to get lifts to relatives homes during 
this time to allow them to wash. I dont think this is reasonable, especially as Mr and Mrs D 
had vulnerable circumstances. I wouldve expected alternative accommodation to have been 
offered during this time. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
AA has acknowledged a lot of its shortcomings with the delays and missed appointments. 
Its taken at least 10 months to complete the repairs (putting to one side the disagreement as 
to whether these have been completed satisfactorily). I think this is a long time for a simple 
claim. There has been disruption caused by AA not initially authorising new bathroom 
furniture, when its contractors hadnt carefully protected the old furniture it had removed. I 
think a lot has gone wrong on this claim, so I dont think £250 is reasonable in reflecting the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I think the evidence shows Mr and Mrs D has had to put 
up with a lot of disruption and difficulty. Any claim will cause inconvenience, but I think Mr 
and Mrs D have had to deal with more than they shouldve needed to.
For the considerable inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs D, Im intending to award a 
further £350 compensation (so £600 in total) for the delays to this claim, the lack of 
alternative accommodation and the disruption caused. I think this wouldve been a 
distressing time for them. 
Ive also considered the outstanding issues (dribbling taps, noisy drains). Whilst I appreciate 
the investigator didnt include this in his view, I have seen AAs final response on this. AA did 
send a surveyor to investigate this which I think is reasonable. The surveyor said, there is 
no visible defect in how the plumbing waste feed to the bath has been done which can cause 
the intermittent gurgling noises. I can see Mr and Mrs D wanted to speak to a senior 
manager to discuss the issues, but AA didnt think this was appropriate.
I dont think Mr and Mrs D would complain about dribbling taps and noisy drains unless there 
was an issue. However, I do appreciate AA had a different surveyor inspect the issues and 
couldnt find any faults. As the two parties had different views, Mr and Mrs D asked to speak 
with someone senior in the organisation. I dont think this is unreasonable  this is a normal 
escalation tactic that people sometimes use to resolve a complaint. I dont know if this 
wouldve progressed the issue, but I think it wouldve been fairer for AA to provide this 
opportunity. Therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint. I also intend to award 
a further £100 compensation for the distress this delay has caused.
To resolve this, I intend for AA to get a senior member of staff to speak with Mr and Mrs D to 
discuss the remaining issues and agree an appropriate course of action, which should 
include a fresh investigation of the issues. If agreement cant be reached then Mr and Mrs D 
have the option of employing their own independent plumber to provide new expert 
evidence.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs D accepted my provisional decision. They clarified and expanded on some of the 
points previously made. Mr and Mrs D has asked if an independent plumbing contractor can 
carry out the investigation, rather than a representative appointed by AA.AA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair for AA to investigate and put right the issues in the bathroom themselves. If Mr 
and Mrs D dont think AAs actions are reasonable they are entitled to raise a new complaint.
As I havent received any new information, I dont see any reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs D an additional £450 compensation (£700 in total)  for distress and 
inconvenience
Arrange for a senior member of staff to speak with Mr and Mrs D to discuss the issue 
and agree an appropriate course of action, which should include a fresh investigation 
of the issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman