DRN-3242850
The complaint
Mr S complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) handled his home
insurance claim poorly and declined it unfairly. He says his race played a part in the unfair
treatment he and his wife received.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr S (along with his wife Mrs S, two children, and mother) attended a 
wedding. It was in a different city but they drove back that evening, arriving in the early 
hours. He says they realised the following morning that a pouch containing some items of 
jewellery was missing from Mrs Ss bag. They checked the car and their home as well as 
calling a family member and the venue, but couldnt find them. So they notified a claim on 
the personal belongings section of their home insurance policy.
Lloyds spoke to Mrs S about how the loss or theft had occurred. She talked them through 
what had happened, including that shed left her bag on their assigned table for a few 
minutes when going to take a family photograph with the bride and groom. She later 
explained her mother-in-law was at the table with the bag, but then left it for a few minutes to 
join the photograph. Lloyds declined the claim. It said the policy only covered personal 
belongings outside the home if they were in the control or custody of the policyholder or their 
family at all times. As the bag was left unattended, it wasnt covered.
Mrs S called back shortly after to say shed discovered that the bag hadnt been left 
unattended. Mr Ss mother brought it with her and gave it to Mr S when she went up for the 
photograph. Lloyds said it would review the claim. It was concerned about the different 
version of events put forward. It thought the bag probably had been left unattended, as 
initially reported, and that Mrs S had changed her account of the loss in an attempt to get the 
claim covered. It therefore declined the claim under its fraud clause and cancelled the policy. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred the matter to our service. He said the bag hadnt 
been left unattended, and the case handler had been rude and hadnt allowed Mrs S to 
speak. He said he and his wife may have been treated less favourably because of their race.
After investigating, our investigator thought Lloyds had handled the claim fairly. He thought 
the claim handler had asked Mrs S open questions and allowed her to explain the 
circumstances of the loss. And that, based on her responses, it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
conclude that the change in account was likely an attempt to make an invalid claim, valid. 
Mr S then asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes unhappy that Lloyds has accused them 
of fraud, and think its discriminated against them based on their race.
I subsequently spoken to Mr and Mrs S directly about the circumstances of their claim
and requested further details from both sides, such as proof of ownership for the jewellery. I 
then issued my provisional decision in November 2021, explaining why I was minded not to 
uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence they 
wanted me to consider. Lloyds has confirmed it has nothing further to add, and Mr S hasnt 
submitted anything further by the deadline given. So I can now proceed to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Without any further information or comments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. So Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision  as set out below:
Ive set out the terms Lloyds has relied on when considering this claim. These are key as, 
under the insurance contract, both parties have agreed to be bound by these terms. 
The theft or accidental loss of personal belongings is covered when the items are:
in or temporarily outside of your home, including outside of the British Isles, provided 
the personal belongings are at all times in the control or custody of you or your 
family, or left in hotel security, a locked safety deposit box, safe or similar locked 
fixed receptacle. By temporarily we mean a period of less than 60 days in a row.
And the fraud clause explains:
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of 
our policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly:
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a 
lower premium or on better terms; or
provides information or documentation to us that is fraudulent or dishonestly 
exaggerates a claim; or
otherwise acts or behaves fraudulently in relation to your policy;
then cover under the policy will end from the date of the fraudulent act and we:
will not pay any part of a fraudulent or exaggerated claim;
will not pay any claims arising after the date of the fraudulent act;
will retain any premiums you have paid;
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf and any costs and 
expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim, whether these payments 
were made or costs and expenses incurred before or after the fraudulent act;
may recover any payments made to you or on your behalf for any other 
claims arising after the fraudulent act.
What these terms mean is that, if the bag containing the pouch was left unattended at any 
point in the evening, its not covered. If Mr and/or Mrs S were dishonest about the claim to 
make it appear to be covered when it wouldnt normally be, or to increase the amount they 
could claim for to more than they were entitled to, then Id consider it fair for Lloyds to 
decline the claim and cancel the cover.
With that in mind, what Im ultimately considering is whether Lloyds considered the claim
fairly, and whether it was reasonable to invoke the fraud clause to repudiate the claim and
cancel the cover.Ive listened to the claim calls. It was mainly Mrs S who spoke to Lloyds, as the pouch was
lost or stolen from her bag. Im mindful of her point that she was having to explain what
happened in English, which isnt her first language. That will have made it more difficult for
her, and may have contributed to the confusion that arose over whether the bag was in the
boot or the back of the car on the way home. But that wasnt why Lloyds declined the claim
(as Ill address below). Overall, Im satisfied the case handler asked Mrs S reasonable
questions, giving her and Mr S a fair opportunity  over several calls  to explain what had
happened. I didnt find that he was aggressive in any way, stopped Mrs S from talking, or
spoke to her or Mr S in an unprofessional or unreasonable way  or in a way which
suggested racial bias.
Mr S also says they were told the claim would be reallocated, but that didnt happen. Having
listened to the calls, Ive found that Lloyds said it would review the claim  as it did  but not
that it would be reallocated. Despite the confusion, I dont think Lloyds breached what it said
it would do. And overall, Im satisfied it considered the claim fairly, and that its decision to
turn down the claim was based on the changes in Mr and Mrs Ss account of the loss.
Turning to those changes, I do agree with Lloyds that there are discrepancies in the
accounts given about this claim. I understand that, naturally, when recounting information
repeatedly over a period of time, small details may be forgotten or recalled differently. But
the changes here seem more significant, and theyre material to the outcome of the claim.
The main change Lloyds has relied on when applying the fraud clause concerns whether the
bag was left unattended at any point. Here are the main accounts Ive heard about this:
Account one
When reporting the claim, Mrs S gave brief details about the loss of the jewellery. A few 
days after the claim was logged, she gave further details. She explained that she and her 
daughter had taken off their jewellery and put it in the pouch in preparation for the way 
home. Theyd also got changed out of their heavy wedding clothes. They realised the loss 
the next morning, and thought they might have left the pouch on their table.
The case handler asked about when they got changed. Mrs S confirmed it was just for the 
ride home, around half ten, and theyd got changed in a room for the bride. Lloyds asked if 
that was where theyd taken off the jewellery. Mrs S said that was earlier, at the table. She 
went on to explain that the jewellery pouch was in her bag and she had a separate bag for 
the clothes. Lloyds asked if she had the bag containing the pouch with her at all times. She 
said she left it on the table for a few minutes to go for a family photograph with the bride 
and groom, confirming that the jewellery was in the bag at that time, and that she didnt 
check the bag again before they left.
Account two
A few days later, the case handler called back to run through the details. Mrs S reiterated 
that theyd got changed from their heavy clothing to be comfy on the way home, had also 
taken the jewellery off, and had left the bag on the table to get the photograph taken. But 
she said it wasnt unattended at the table as her mother (or mother-in-law) was there. She 
then remembered that the bride had called her mother up for the photograph, so there were 
two or three minutes when the bag was unattended.
After discussing what happened next, Lloyds explained it wouldnt be able to look into the
claim due to the bag being left unattended. Mrs S disputed this, saying that Lloyds couldnt 
be sure that was when the loss occurred.Account three
Shortly after, Mrs S called back. She said shed checked with her mother and the bag wasnt 
left unattended. It had been passed to her husband when her mother went up for the 
photograph, and hed placed it out of sight on the floor and then taken it to the car. She also 
mentioned that theyd stopped for petrol on the way home, and that her daughter had been 
in and out of the bag during the event (both of which were details shed mentioned 
previously).
I understand why Lloyds was concerned that, after it had explained to Mrs S why the claim 
wouldnt be covered, thats when the version of events changed to something that would 
generally be covered.
When Mrs S called back, she said she previously hadnt been sure whether the bag had 
been left unattended. But thats not what shed told Lloyds. There is an expectation on 
consumers to ensure that what they tell an insurer is accurate. Mrs S said the bag had been 
left unattended by her mother  having previously not mentioned that her mother had been 
at the table where the bag was left at all. She could have checked this if she wasnt sure, 
especially over the course of several calls, or told Lloyds that she wasnt sure about this 
point. As she initially told Lloyds they thought the pouch might have been left on the table, it 
strikes me as unlikely that the family hadnt discussed where the bag had been when they 
discovered the loss.
I also agree with Lloyds that, if the jewellery was put straight in the pouch before the 
photograph then was constantly attended, its unclear how the loss or theft could have 
occurred without anyone noticing. In the circumstances, I consider it reasonable for Lloyds to 
rely on what it was initially told  that that the bag had been left unattended. Similarly, I 
consider it reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that this change in account was likely an 
attempt to get the claim covered when they were told it didnt meet the terms. From listening 
to the calls, it seems that Mr and Mrs S didnt initially know that leaving the bag unattended 
at the table would mean the claim wasnt covered.
In the course of investigating this complaint, Ive also uncovered some more discrepancies 
which, on balance, further persuade me that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect 
Lloyds to revoke the fraud decline and cancellation:
Initially, Mrs S told Lloyds that the pouch contained her bangles plus two matching 
pendants and chains that both she and her daughter had worn to the wedding. She 
said the necklace sets had been bought a few months prior, as a birthday gift for her 
daughter and an anniversary present for her. She submitted receipts/valuations to 
Lloyds for both, but said she didnt have a receipt for her bangles due to their age. 
When I spoke to her, she told me she was wearing her daughters chain and pendant. 
Shes sent me receipts for those. But she hasnt mentioned the matching set she told 
Lloyds about. That seems significant, given the value  both financial and sentimental 
 of the items.
If Mrs S has her own set of this jewellery, as she initially told Lloyds, its unclear why 
she would have been wearing her daughters set. This calls into question whether the 
items originally claimed for are correct. Lloyds has also pointed out that, if the sets 
were exactly the same  as she told them  its unclear why the receipts and overall 
price for each is different.
Before I spoke to Mr and Mrs S, I asked them for the family photograph with the bride 
and groom, as thats central to the claim. This shows Mrs S not wearing the jewellery, 
which fits with what she told Lloyds. But shes still in her formal wedding attire.When I asked Mrs S about this, she told me that shed gone to get changed, and had 
just taken off her jewellery, when they were unexpectedly called for the photograph. 
And that they then went straight home without getting changed. But she initially told 
Lloyds that she took off the jewellery at the table, not in the changing area. And she 
also told it that she did change clothes before leaving. Im conscious that the account 
she gave me fits with the photograph I asked for, but not with what she told Lloyds.
On balance, Im satisfied that Lloyds considered the claim fairly and reached a reasonable 
conclusion based on the available information. So Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman