DRN-2747036
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Honeycomb Finance Limited, trading as Honeycomb, didnt set up a
direct debit correctly which led the direct debit payments not being taken and her credit file
being affected as a result.
What happened
Ms M has a credit agreement with Honeycomb which was being repaid by direct debit. In
November 2019, Ms M switched bank accounts. She contacted Honeycomb and provided
her new bank account details and a new direct debit was set up. However, in January 2020
Ms M switched bank accounts again, back to the original account. Ms M notified Honeycomb
about this.
In early February 2020, Ms M contacted Honeycomb because she noticed that the payment
that she was expecting to be made by direct debit to Honeycomb hadnt left her account.
Honeycomb assured Ms M that they had submitted a direct debit mandate to her bank and
that they money should be paid. However, the direct debit subsequently wasnt taken, and
this meant that Ms Ms account with Honeycomb fell into arrears and that a £15 unpaid direct
debit fee was incurred. The missed payment was also reported by Honeycomb to the credit
reference agencies.
Following the missed payment, Ms M contacted her bank. They told her that no direct debit
mandate had been supplied to them and so no direct debit was in place. Ms M relayed this
information to Honeycomb who sent a replacement direct debit mandate to Ms Ms bank.
However, in March 2020 the direct debit payment also wasnt taken, and this led to a further
unpaid direct debit fee being applied to Ms Ms account by Honeycomb, as well as a further
missed payment being recorded on Ms Ms credit file. Ms M contacted her bank about this
missed payment and was again told that no direct debit was in place because a valid direct
debit mandate hadnt been supplied by Honeycomb.
Ms M didnt think it was fair that her she was being charged fees and having her credit file
affected by Honeycomb because of mistakes that Honeycomb were making, so she made a
complaint. Honeycomb looked at Ms Ms complaint, but they noted that they had supplied
valid direct debit mandates to Ms Ms bank to enable the payments to be made, and also
that Ms Ms bank had returned codes to them following the missed payments which
suggested the payments had been missed due to insufficient funds.
Honeycomb also noted that the April direct debit payment had been paid without issue by Ms
Ms bank, which suggested that the mandate they had supplied was valid. So, they didnt
uphold this aspect of Ms Ms complaint.
However, Honeycomb felt that the standard of service that they had provided to Ms M when
handling the telephone calls that she had made to them wasnt to the standard that they
would have liked, so they credited £20 to her account by way of compensation for this.
Honeycomb also reimbursed the £15 missed direct debit fees for both February and March
to Ms Ms account as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with this response, so she referred her complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that when this service had
contacted Ms Ms bank, we were told that the direct debit had last been amended in
February 2019, which was a year prior to when Honeycomb advised they had last sent a
direct debit mandate to Ms Ms bank. Our investigator also noted that while the April direct
debit payment had been received by Honeycomb there was no record of this money leaving
Ms Ms bank account, and so it was unclear where this money had been received from.
Because of this, our investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint and asked Honeycomb to remove
the adverse information from Ms Ms credit file and make a payment of £150 to Ms M by way
of compensation for the inconvenience that Ms M had incurred.
Honeycomb didnt accept the view of this complaint put forward by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 March 2021 as follows:
Ms M switched the bank account that she was using twice in a short period of time  
in November 2019 and again in January 2020  and it appears that the second of 
these two switches was particularly problematic, when considered in the context of 
this complaint.
A key point of consideration is whether Honeycomb supplied new direct debit 
mandates to Ms Ms bank in line with the changing of Ms Ms accounts. Honeycomb 
believe that they did, and the copies of the direct debit mandates supplied to this 
service by Honeycomb appear to corroborate this claim.
On the other hand, the information provided to this service by Ms Ms bank raises 
several questions. For instance, Ms Ms bank lists the current status of the direct 
debit as being transferred to the bank account which Ms M first switched to in 
November 2019. It appears then that Ms Ms bank holds no record of the direct debit 
being transferred back to the original bank account in January 2020.
This leads me to suspect that the reasons that the direct debit was failing following 
Ms M switching back to the original bank account in January 2020 was because the 
direct debit was still being applied against the other bank account  the one which Ms 
M had switched to in November 2019 but was no longer supposed to be being used.
And this would explain why the direct debit successfully taken in April 2020 wasnt 
taken from Ms Ms account  because the money was received from the previous 
bank account which Ms M had been using, because the direct debit hadnt been 
updated. If it is possible, a review of that other accounts April 2020 bank statement 
may corroborate whether this is indeed the case.
All of which leads me to believe that the problem here is a breakdown in 
communication between Honeycomb and Ms Ms bank. The question then becomes 
whether this breakdown can fairly be attributed to Honeycomb.And Im not convinced that it can in this instance, and I say this because it appears 
that Honeycomb had the correct bank information and were using that correct 
information when sending the direct debit mandates to Ms Ms bank. This is 
evidenced not only by the direct debit mandates provided by Honeycomb as 
previously mentioned, but also because when Honeycomb issued a credit payment 
to Ms M it was received by Ms M in the correct account, which confirms that 
Honeycomb held the correct bank account details.
Ive also listened to a number of recorded telephone calls between Ms M and 
Honeycomb, and there is an instance where Honeycomb verbally confirm to Ms M 
the bank account details that they are using on the direct debit mandates which they 
are sending to Ms Ms bank, and these bank details are correct.
Finally, it also must be noted that Ms Ms bank record that the direct debit was last 
updated in February 2019 yet hold information about the bank account that Ms M 
switched to briefly in November 2019.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Honeycomb have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here in how they have attempted to update Ms Ms direct debit, and I 
cant conclude that they should be held responsible for the direct debit payments not 
being taken. It follows from this that my provisional decision will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Honeycomb to take any further action.
I understand that Ms M was frustrated with the service that she received from 
Honeycomb, including receiving calls and correspondence from Honeycomb about 
arrears on her Honeycomb account which Ms M believed Honeycomb were 
responsible for. However, given that Im unable to conclude that Honeycomb are 
responsible for the issues that Ms M has experienced here, Im also unable to uphold 
this aspect of Ms Ms complaint, and Im satisfied that any response that Honeycomb 
has already made to Ms M in this regard, including any offer of compensation, 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this aspect of Ms Ms complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms M and Honeycomb the opportunity to 
provide any comments or additional information that theyd like me to consider before I 
moved to final decision. Honeycomb confirmed that they had nothing further to add. 
However, Ms M did provide some additional information.
Importantly, Ms M was able to demonstrate that the conjecture that Id made in my 
provisional decision letter that her bank might have paid the April 2020 direct debit payment 
to Honeycomb from the bank account she had briefly used in late 2019 was incorrect. 
Specifically, Ms M spoke with the owner of that bank account, who agreed to provide a copy 
of the statement for that account for April 2020. And this showed that no payment had been 
taken by Honeycomb, as I had suspected might be the case.
This led me to approach Honeycomb once again and seek further confirmation on the direct 
debit details that they had submitted to Ms Ms bank. However, Honeycomb were able to 
provide screenshots confirming that they had used Ms Ms correct bank account details. And 
I can confirm that these details are correct because they are the sort code and account 
number present on Ms Ms own bank statements which she has previously provided to this 
service.
So, given that Ms Ms own bank statements confirm that no April 2020 payment left her 
account, but Honeycomb received such a payment and applied for it using the correct bank 
details for Ms Ms account, this leaves me in the position of not knowing the nature of the inconsistency that has occurred here or how the April 2020 payment has been 
simultaneously received by Honeycomb, but not taken from Ms Ms account.
However, this is a complaint against Honeycomb, and following my further review Im 
satisfied that Honeycomb havent committed any errors, either by act or omission, such that I 
can fairly uphold this complaint against them.
I say this because Im satisfied that Honeycomb did send the correct direct debit mandates 
to Ms Ms bank when they said they would, and that they have been applying for payments 
using the correct bank details in line with those mandates and with Ms Ms wishes.
These payments werent received by Honeycomb, but I cant find any cause to consider that 
Honeycomb are the party responsible for the payments not being received, and so I dont 
feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure them in any way for this.
So, it remains the case that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Honeycomb to take 
any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms M was wanting 
here, and I sympathise with her position and agree that something has gone wrong with 
regard the direct debit and the payments she intended to make. But having thoroughly 
reviewed this complaint, I cant conclude that Honeycomb have made any errors or mistakes 
such that they should be considered as the party responsible for what has happened, and 
its for this reason that my final decision will be that I do not uphold this complaint.
I hope that Ms M can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman