DRN-3923458
The complaint
Mr H complains that he shouldve had a payment holiday on his loan, and it shouldnt have 
been defaulted by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr H had two loans from Barclays. This complaint relates to a loan which was originally for
£50,000 and was drawn in November 2015. By the end of February 2020, the balance had
reduced to £8,537.44. Some payments had been missed previously, but the loan was paid
up to date by that time. The payment due on 30 March 2020 wasnt made as the direct debit
failed, and it also failed on 9 April 2020  so at that time, the loan was one month in arrears.
The next payment due on 30 April 2020 also failed  so the loan was then two months in
arrears.
Mr Hs business had been affected by the pandemic and he called Barclays on 23 April 2020
to ask for a payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support scheme. Barclays said he
couldnt have one as the loan was in arrears and the next payment was also due shortly. A
30-day payment break was agreed instead, but arrears built up. The payment break came
to an end on 1 May 2020.
Barclays sent Mr H arrears notices in May 2020 (arrears £1,986.08); and on 1 July 2020
(arrears £2,977.72). A Notice of Default was sent on 3 September 2020. The arrears were
then £5,952.64, and the notice asked that this amount was paid by 1 October 2020. It wasnt
paid and the loan defaulted on 1 October 2020. The balance was £8,708.88 and it was
passed to a debt collection agency to manage.
Mr H complained. He said he shouldve been given a payment holiday  his business traded
with China and its income stopped in February 2020. As a result, he was struggling. He said 
that if he had been given a payment holiday, the default wouldnt have taken place.
Barclays said they were correct in not agreeing to a payment holiday (PH) on 23 April 2020.
The loan was then one month in arrears  which meant Mr H didnt qualify for a PH. Instead,
a 30-day hold was put on the loan payments. Barclays said the loan was correctly defaulted.
For some service issues  not directly related to the complaint we are reviewing here -
Barclays paid compensation of £520.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator was persuaded that Mr H shouldve been
given a three-month PH when he called on 23 April 2020. And she said it was likely that he
would then have asked for a further three-month PH after that  in July 2020. And that
wouldve been agreed. But after that time, she thought it was likely that Mr H couldnt have
then made the payments to the loan it would then have defaulted. So - she said the loan
default in October 2020 was reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree. He argued that had he had a PH up to October 2020, Barclays wouldnt
have defaulted him then  after (say) one missed payment. And he said he wouldve found a
way to pay in enough money to prevent the default  he said he had up to six months to do
that after October 2020. So - he argued that the default should never have happened.
Mr H asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
Its important to set out what the payment holiday scheme was. In April 2020, the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on
customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Barclays, had to put in place
payment holidays on many credit agreements, including personal loans  to help customers
who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three
months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported
to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This
support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent
normally agreed. And if a customers difficulties existed before the pandemic, (i.e. if there
were pre-existing arrears), then a PH couldnt be agreed.
In Mr Hs case, there was already one months arrears by 23 April 2020  as the March
payment hadnt been made. So - I can see why Barclays call handler took the decision to
decline the request for a PH. But our investigator took the view that as Mr Hs business
traded with China, it was likely that his financial problems started earlier than for most other
people in the UK, and so she said that Barclays shouldve given him a PH when he called. In
the notes of the call  I can see that Mr H said there hadnt been any income for the
business since March 2020.
I can see why our investigator said a PH shouldve been given to Mr H at that time. Because
it was reasonable to assume that Mr Hs financial problems were due to the pandemic.
Therefore, Im persuaded that on balance here, I think it was fair for our investigator to say
what she did  that a PH shouldve been given to Mr H in April 2020. That wouldve meant
that no arrears would been recorded for the months of April 2020, May 2020, and June
2020.
Ive then gone on to consider what happened in June 2020. Mr H called Barclays on 26 June
2020. On the call, its clear that his business was still not trading. He was getting a furlough
payment and total family income was £1,000 per month. Income was less than expenditure.
So  there wasnt a clear way forward  there wasnt any firm indication that Mr Hs income
was going to return in the short term (i.e. within three months). And so  in June 2020,
Barclays were correct in declining to give Mr H a PH  as his financial situation looked like it
was longer term, and so that meant he fell outside the PH scheme. I dont think its
reasonable to say that Barclays shouldve given Mr H a PH then.
If Mr H was given a PH between April 2020 and June 2020, but after that a PH was not given
 for reasons Ive set out  then arrears wouldve started to build up from July 2020. Mr H
made no payments to the loan from then until the default in October 2020. So  by that time,
he wouldve been three months in arrears. And so  I think its reasonable to say its very
likely that Barclays would still have defaulted the loan at that time. I say that because the
guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the
consumer is six months behind with their payments.
Mr H has argued that if a PH had been agreed up to September 2020  then after that,
Barclays wouldnt have defaulted the loan in so short a time. And I agree with Mr H on thispoint. But I dont agree that Barclays shouldve given a PH up to that time in any case. So 
Mr Hs point falls away here.
Mr H also argues that he wouldve had six months after October 2020 to find enough money
to stop the loan defaulting. But as Im saying that there wouldve been three months arrears
by October 2020 - Mr H wouldve needed to pay those to avoid a default. And there isnt any
room for speculation on this point  as Mr H didnt manage to pay anything to the loan at that
time.
It's unfortunate that Mr H found himself in financial difficulty because of the pandemic. But I
think that the loan was always going to default, given his circumstances. And I think that
Barclays acted reasonably.
I appreciate the strength of Mr Hs feeling here, and for the points he has put to us. So, he
will be disappointed by my provisional decision. But he does have the opportunity to put any
new arguments to us in response.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays agreed. But Mr H didnt. He said (in summary):
1. Other banks he dealt with gave him a six-month payment holiday and therefore 
Barclays should have done the same. This was government guidance at the time.
2. If Barclays had given him a three-month PH to June 2020, they wouldve taken a 
positive view of his prospects then and given him a further three-month PH  given 
his relationship with them over many years.
3. He would then have had a further six months from October 2020 to April 2021 before 
the default and he wouldve found a way to avoid that.
4. My conclusion that he wouldnt have been able to make repayments and wouldve 
defaulted is hypothetical and has no basis in law.
5. Default procedures shouldve been put on hold while his complaint was being 
handled by Barclays. Because it wasnt, he wasnt able to restart payments in that 
timeframe.
6. The reason he didnt make any repayments after he had defaulted  was because 
that was the only bargaining chip he had.
I now need to consider Mr Hs further points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs points, for which Im grateful. Taking them in turn:
1. There wasnt any part of the industry pandemic support scheme that made for a six-month payment holiday. I set out what the scheme was in the provisional decision  it 
was for two, three-month PHs, with a maximum total of six months. And each period 
of three months had to be agreed to by Barclays.
2. While Mr H may believe his long-standing relationship with Barclays wouldve meant 
that a three-month PH wouldve been agreed in June 2020  Barclays were in 
possession of his history with them in April 2020. And despite that, Barclays declined 
the PH at that time. So  I cant say in all fairness that Barclays wouldve changed 
their stance and agreed to a PH three months later  especially, as Ive set out, there 
was little prospect of Mr Hs income returning soon at that time.
3. It was my view that I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr H couldve made the 
repayments in the timescale as he says he could. I havent seen anything which 
changes my view. And  Barclays may well have defaulted the loan within three 
months of October 2021 (not six months)  as I set out in the provisional decision. 
That wouldve given Mr H less time.
4. In connection with this point, let me say we are not providing a legal judgment here, 
nor is that my role. We are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to 
come to fair decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial 
business. As an ombudsman, its my role to look at the individual complaint thats 
been referred to me and make a decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
individual circumstances of that dispute. In doing so, we dont take sides and I have 
to consider what both sides have to say and the evidence they provide.
5. Firms are not required to put default processes on hold while a complaint is being 
considered. And here, Barclays didnt have to put matters on hold.
6. I hear what Mr H says here, but the evidence was that he didnt make any 
repayments, for whatever reason  so I cant reasonably say he could have done so.
Mr H has argued his case passionately and eloquently. But  on the balance of evidence, Im 
afraid to say that my final decision is unchanged from the provisional decision  which I 
know Mr H will find disappointing. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman