DRN-1608346
The complaint
Mr A and Miss S have complained that Assured Futures Limited mis-sold them a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017, after speaking to an adviser from Assured Futures, Miss S agreed to take out a 
private medical insurance policy which provided cover for her and Mr A. The policy was 
underwritten by the insurer on a moratorium basis.
In 2019, after becoming frustrated with the insurers application of the moratorium to decline 
attempted claims, Miss S cancelled the policy.
Miss S complained to Assured Futures that the policy had been mis-sold because it had 
failed to explain how the moratorium would operate in practice.
Assured Futures didnt uphold the complaint. It was satisfied that Miss S had been given 
sufficient information, including about the moratorium underwriting, to make an informed 
decision as to whether to take out the policy.
Miss S and Mr A referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
the sale had been carried out properly.
Miss S and Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. Miss S said shed understood when 
she took out the policy that pre-existing conditions would not be eligible for cover. However, 
she hadnt realised that the insurer would use this clause to decline claims for new health 
problems simply because she had previously experienced problems in that area of her body, 
regardless of whether the new problem was related to the previous problem. She considered 
that Assured Futures should have made this clear.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the two telephone calls which took place between Assured Futures adviser 
and Miss S before she agreed to take out the policy. The adviser called Miss S after she had 
been searching for quotes for a private medical insurance policy on a price comparison 
website. Miss S explained that she had suffered a long-standing health problem which was 
eventually diagnosed as a gallstones issue and for which she had paid to undergo an 
operation privately. While she was confident this issue had now been resolved, she said she 
wanted private cover so that any future health issue could be dealt with privately. She said 
she wanted the cover to apply to Mr A also.
The adviser went through various options for cover, such as the excess level, the range of 
available hospitals and the scope of cover. And after asking questions about Miss Ss and 
Mr As medical history, the adviser also discussed the options for underwriting, including 
moratorium underwriting. The adviser explained that under the moratorium, Miss S and Mr A 
didnt need to disclose to the insurer details of their medical history. However, for at least the 
first two years of the policy, cover would be excluded for any condition for which Miss S or 
Mr A had experienced symptoms or received advice, treatment or medication in the five 
years before the policy started.
The adviser eventually recommended that Miss S take out a particular policy with 
moratorium underwriting. 
Im satisfied that the advisers recommendation was appropriate for Miss S and Mr A. 
I consider that the moratorium was a suitable type of underwriting and that the adviser had 
adequately explained the way this would work.
Following the sale, Assured Futures sent policy documents to Miss S. The moratorium 
clause was clearly described within these. There was a 14 day cooling-off period during 
which Miss S could cancel the policy without charge if she was unhappy with it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss S was provided with sufficient information to make an 
informed decision as to whether to accept the advisers recommendation.
It seems that Miss S is unhappy with the way the moratorium has been applied in practice. 
She believes claims for new health issues have been declined because of unrelated 
symptoms she has experienced in the past. However, responsibility for applying the 
moratorium lies with the insurer, not Assured Futures. To be clear, just because Miss S has 
previously experienced symptoms or undergone treatment in a particular part of her body, it 
doesnt mean that any claim relating to that part of the body should necessarily be excluded; 
it all depends on whether the previous treatment and/or symptoms are related to the 
condition giving rise to the new claim. However, any complaint about the unfair application of 
the moratorium would need to be made against the insurer in the first instance; I cant 
consider this issue in this decision.
In summary, Im sorry that Miss S and Mr A were dissatisfied with their private medical 
insurance policy. However, I dont consider that Assured Futures did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman