DRN-4087667
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way IG Markets Limited closed some of his trades when his 
account went into margin deficit. He complains that his trades shouldve been reinstated and 
this wouldve avoided significant losses to his account. 
What happened
Mr C was an experienced trader, who first opened his spreadbetting account with IG in 2010. 
In January 2022 Mr C had two long positions on the Wall Street market  one at £50 per 
point and the other at £35 per point. As long as the Wall Street index went up in value, Mr C 
stood to make a profit  inversely, each point below the opening level would cause Mr C a 
loss. 
IG had obligations which have been set out clearly by the investigator in his assessment. In 
short, IG need to ensure that Mr Cs account had sufficient margin to keep these trades 
open, it needed to protect him from a negative balance and it needed to automatically close 
out his positions when his account had less than 50% margin. 
At around 5.17pm, Mr Cs account had unrealised losses of £224,382. He had around 
£69,700 in account equity, and his margin requirement was just over £141,000. As a result, 
Mr C had less than 50% of the required margin available in his account, and IG proceeded to 
close his trades. Mr C called IG shortly after to ask that IG reinstate his trades, as he felt that 
this would allow him to manage his risk and he thought the market had moved in his favour. 
Although IG was initially inclined to do this, it confirmed that reinstating his trades without Mr 
C adding more margin would mean he would still be just under the 50% limit. So Mr Cs 
trades were not reinstated. 
Mr C complained. IG looked into his complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. 
In short, it said that at the time Mr C spoke to the dealing desk, the market was continuing to 
move in the opposite direction to the trades he wanted reinstated. It said in those 
circumstances, it couldnt reinstate his trades  and it didnt think it had done anything wrong 
by declining his request. Mr C didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. He 
made some detailed submissions and provide an independent report that he said supported 
his complaint.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
set out the rules which IG needed to follow when administering Mr Cs spreadbetting 
account, and concluded that these rules:
Required IG to monitor Mr Cs margin utilisation and close his positions as soon as 
he had less than 50% of the relevant margin requirement (COBS 22.5.13R). 
Required IG to insist on cash before maintaining an open position for Mr C (COBS 
22.5.14R)
Required IG to let Mr C know what the margin closeout level was and how it would 
be calculated (COBS 22.5.15R)
Required IG to give Mr C best execution when giving effect to Mr Cs instructions or 
making a margin call (COBS 22.5.16G). 
Taking into account the rules and Mr Cs experience in trading, the investigator concluded 
that IG hadnt done anything wrong. He said that Mr Cs account fell below the 50% margin 
requirement and that meant that IG was obliged to take the action that it did. He said that 
whilst he understood that Mr C was actively monitoring his account and taking action where 
necessary, it was clear that his account had fallen into margin deficit. He also said that IG 
didnt have discretion to ignore the rules, or to anticipate what might happen in the market in 
the future. 
The investigator considered Mr Cs complaint that IG ought to have reinstated his positions 
when he called. However, he didnt think IG had an obligation to  and he said that it was 
clear from the call between Mr C and IG that while it had initially agreed to reinstate his 
trades, the level of equity in Mr Cs account meant that this wasnt possible. 
IG agreed with the investigator, but Mr C didnt agree. He said:
The crux of his complaint wasnt the closure of his positions, but that IG was in clear 
breach of principle 6 of the FCA Handbook. 
He told IG hed add the required funds to bring his account back to 50% margin, and 
part close his position as well. He said these actions wouldve brought him further 
away from the 50% margin closeout level. He said it was imprudent to claim that this 
refusal didnt cause his losses, as if IG had allowed him to reinstate his positions he 
wouldve been in a position to manage his losses and risk as he had been doing 
before.
IGs decision not to reinstate his positions was a clear breach of the clients best 
interest rule and terms most favourable to the client. 
His account was only £90 short of the 50% margin  as an experienced trader, Mr C 
said he was fully aware of the risk involved, and he had a strategy in place to deal 
with the situation. 
Mr C said that if his trades had been reinstated and the market had continued to 
move against him, he wouldve simply carried on part closing his position in order to 
mitigate his losses  which is what he had been doing before his positions were 
closed due to insufficient margin. 
Mr C said that IG routinely reinstated client positions, even when it hadnt made a 
mistake. And he said the only reason IG didnt reinstate his positions is because of 
the £90 shortfall. He said that as long as his account had been up the required 50% 
margin he wouldve been able to trade. He said that if the agent had told him he 
needed enough funds to cover 100% of the margin level, then Mr C said he would 
have immediately told him that hed fund the account accordingly. 
The report he provided by an expert supported his complaint and, in particular, his 
claim that IG had breached principle 6 of the FCA high level principles. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the detailed submissions made by Mr C during the course of our investigation  
including the expert report he has provided in support of his complaint. Ive taken all this 
information into account before reaching my decision  but I want to make clear that I wont 
be responding or addressing every point thats been raised. The purpose of this decision 
isnt to do that, instead its to focus on the key issues in dispute and set out my decision and 
my reasons. 
I should start by saying that Im not persuaded by the report Mr C has provided  I dont 
agree that it shows that he thinks, and Im not persuaded it provides any particular reasons 
for why Mr C believes IG has breached any rule or principle. It merely asserts, as does Mr C, 
that given he was managing his account and had only stepped away for a brief moment, it 
was unfair of IG not to have reinstated his trades when he asked it to. 
But that conclusion has no basis in the rules, and I dont agree it was unfair  the length of 
time Mr C stepped away from monitoring his account is entirely irrelevant to the obligations 
IG had and was required to comply with. Furthermore, I dont agree it has anything to do with 
what was in Mr Cs best interests. In fact, IG acted entirely in line with the principles, and 
Mr Cs best interests, by closing out his trades when it did. Mr C says that the closure itself 
isnt something hes complaining about, so I wont comment on it any further save to find that 
IG was entitled and obliged to take the action that it did. 
I also want to point out that Mr C has confused some of the rules which the investigator 
quoted. For example, terms most favourable to the client has nothing to do with IGs 
discretion to reinstate Mr Cs trades after a margin closeout. The best execution rule is 
exclusively about the price achieved by the broker in executing a trade  and theres no 
dispute about IGs prices here. 
All this means that once IG closed out Mr Cs trades, it had fulfilled what was required of it 
under COBS. I understand why Mr C considers it was unfair and not in his interests not to 
reinstate his trades. But I dont agree reinstating his trades wouldve been in Mr Cs best 
interests, precisely given the level of financial loss he had already incurred. In my view it was 
in Mr Cs best interests to require him to use the remaining equity in his account to either 
open the same, but smaller trades  or to require him to add more funds to his account in 
order to open his trades with the required margin. 
Whether or not IG decided to reinstate trades in other circumstances isnt relevant  thats 
something IG is entitled to consider, but it isnt something the relevant rules require nor is it 
something that consumers can expect of it. 
Furthermore, I dont agree that IGs decision not to reinstate Mr Cs trades caused him any 
loss. Its clear to me that Mr C still had the opportunity to use whatever equity was left in his 
account to open new trades  or alternatively, to add more money to his account and open 
the same positions again. It was for Mr C to decide whether he wanted to continue taking the 
risk that his trades would eventually be profitable  and I dont agree IG had anything to do 
with that decision. 
Ultimately, Mr C did not reopen his positions  and with hindsight, I understand he has 
calculated how much profit he wouldve made had his positions remained open. But that isnt 
fair and reasonable  neither IG nor Mr C knew at the time what would happen in the market. The only thing IG knew for certain was the level of unrealised losses on Mr Cs account, and 
the fact that he no longer had enough margin to keep his trades open. For the reasons Ive 
given above, it was therefore obliged to close Mr Cs trades. Once Mr C was told by IG that it 
would not reinstate his trades, it was for him to decide whether he was willing to take more 
risk or not. As an execution only customer, this decision had nothing to do with IG and was 
only Mr Cs responsibility. As a result, for the reasons Ive given, I dont agree that Mr C was 
treated unfairly nor that IG breached any of its obligations, including the Principles. 
This means Im not going to ask it to pay any compensation. I appreciate that Mr C will 
profoundly disagree with my decision, but I hope he can understand the reasons why Ive 
reached it. 
This final decision is this services final say on his complaint however. If Mr C doesnt accept 
this decision, it wont be legally binding and hell be entitled to pursue the matter against IG 
elsewhere. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman