DRN-2716871
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC should have told him it wouldnt offer additional 
borrowing in time for him to apply elsewhere. He says he was forced into a rate switch with 
Barclays and is now unable to take out additional borrowing. He asks that Barclays waives 
the early repayment charge (ERC) so he can re-mortgage with another lender.
What happened
Mr B has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. His fixed interest rate product was due to end 
in April 2020. Mr B contacted Barclays about taking out a new product and additional 
borrowing of about £20,000.
Barclays declined Mr Bs application for additional borrowing in January 2020, saying this 
was due to adverse data on his credit file. Mr B said this data was incorrect and he arranged 
for it to be removed. Mr B couldnt then re-apply for additional borrowing as this required a 
valuation which wasnt possible at that time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr B took out a new product to avoid going onto Barclays standard variable rate (SVR). This 
product has an ERC. However, when Mr B made another application for further borrowing it 
was declined. Mr B says Barclays should have told him at the outset it wouldnt offer 
additional lending so he could go elsewhere. He says he doesnt want compensation, just 
the freedom to move to another lender without penalty.
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt acted unfairly. There was no guarantee that it would 
offer additional borrowing, and it wouldnt have known in early 2020 that it would decline 
Mr Bs later application.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the investigator hadnt looked into how Barclays had offered 
unsecured lending the previous year. Or how it deemed him able to afford payments while 
on its SVR, which were much more than the payments with the additional borrowing would 
have been at the product rate. Mr B said this led him to believe his application would be 
successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out a fixed interest rate product in April 2020. This included an ERC which applies 
if he repays the mortgage before the end of April 2022. Mr B agreed to the terms of the 
product, including the ERC, when he took out the product. 
Mr B wants Barclays to waive the ERC. He wants to take out additional borrowing, secured 
on his buy to let property. Barclays declined his application for additional borrowing and so 
Mr B wants to apply elsewhere without paying the ERC. 
Mr Bs application for additional borrowing was declined at decision in principle stage when 
he met with Barclays mortgage adviser in January 2020. Barclays said this was due to 
adverse data on his credit file. Mr B says this data was incorrect and arranged for it to be 
corrected. Mr B contacted Barclays again in mid-March. Barclays said it couldnt proceed 
with his application. This was because it was unable to instruct a valuation during the 
national lockdown brought in by the UK Government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
This put Mr B in a difficult position. He couldnt proceed with his application for further 
borrowing. And his mortgage was about to go onto Barclays SVR which would increase his 
monthly payments significantly. At that time it wasnt clear how long the lockdown would last, 
or when Barclays (or other lenders) would be able to instruct valuations and proceed with 
applications. Mr Bs payments would have been about £1,900 while on the SVR, as 
compared to about £550 on the new product rate. 
Id note here that Mr B is most likely better off for taking out the new interest rate product, 
even if he pays the ERC. He paid a product fee of about £1,800 and the ERC is about 
£5,000. However, Mr B is paying about £1,300 per month less as a result of taking out the 
new product, as compared to staying on the SVR. 
Mr B applied for additional borrowing in July 2020. Barclays declined, again at decision in 
principle stage. I appreciate that Mr B didnt expect his application to be declined, and this 
must have been disappointing. I dont think though that Barclays misled Mr B that it would 
offer additional borrowing. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that because Barclays offered Mr B an unsecured loan 
previously this would mean it would offer him further loans, secured or otherwise. Barclays 
told Mr B his first application, in January 2020, was declined because of adverse data on his 
credit file. While Barclays identified an immediate problem with Mr Bs credit file, this isnt the 
same as saying it would certainly lend if the adverse data was removed. And while Mr B 
says he wasnt told in January that a valuation would be required for the additional 
borrowing, he did know this in March 2020, before taking out the new product. 
Mr B took out a new interest rate product online, without advice or a recommendation from a 
mortgage adviser. I appreciate that matters havent worked out as Mr B had hoped. But I 
dont think Barclays made an error, misled Mr B or treated him unfairly. And so I dont think 
its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to waive the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman