DRN-3110434
The complaint
Mr F complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the help and support he 
expected, when he reported fraudulent debit card transactions against his current account.
What happened
On 3 November 2020, Mr F noticed that there were four debits from his account, totalling 
£270, in favour of a company based abroad. Hed never heard of the company and hadnt 
authorised the debits.
Mr F signed into his app to report this through Chat. He said he was told that the purge 
date was 18 November and he couldnt report the problem until then, as the transactions 
were pending and might or might not be deducted from his account. Mr F asked for his 
account to be monitored so that Barclays would automatically log his complaint when the 
purge date was reached, but it refused.  Mr F asked for a fraud investigation to be 
launched, but said the adviser refused, and told him to contact the recipient company. Mr F 
said it wasnt for him to do this but Barclays, and at that point the Chat was ended.
Mr F then tried phoning Barclays. He had to wait 30 minutes to be connected. The adviser 
told Mr F that as the transactions were still pending, fraud couldnt then be reported, until 
the transactions had been completed and appeared on Mr Fs statement, because they 
might still be reversed. At that point Mr F said he wanted to complain, because he didnt 
understand why the fraudulent recipient had had access to his account. The adviser said 
fraud was very common, but Mr F said he was concerned about why it had happened, and 
he didnt want to wait till it appeared on his statement. The adviser said no-one would be 
able to tell him how the fraud had happened, but Mr F said he still wanted to complain about 
the fraudster having been able to access his account. 
Mr F was also annoyed that the amount of the disputed transactions had been deducted 
from his balance, even though he was reporting them as fraudulent. And he thought 
Barclays shouldnt expect him to have to ring again whenever they were marked as 
completed on his statement  - it should monitor them itself. 
The adviser told Mr F he could be put through to the fraud department, but after waiting 
another 30 minutes to be connected, Mr F gave up.  
Mr F rang again on 9 November, when the disputed transactions had gone through. He 
asked for refunds, and for a complaint to be logged. He pointed out that hed spent two 
hours trying to sort this out, and he thought Barclays should have noted down his report of 
fraud at the time, and investigated as soon as it could, without him having to ring again. 
The adviser apologised, and explained that with pending transactions, Barclays couldnt act 
straightaway because all it knows is that the recipient has requested the money  but it 
doesnt know whether or not it will then go on to complete the claim for the money. When the 
transactions are fully complete, the bank can then go back to the recipient to query the 
payment. So Barclays said it had followed the proper process, and didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. It also went through a series of questions, and sent Mr F a form to sign. It re-
credited his account on 19 November.
Mr F wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said hed like to be compensated for the 
time and effort it had taken him to resolve this, and for the fact that Barclays initially refused 
to accept his complaint or register it. Nor would Barclays credit his account when he first 
flagged the problem. Mr F said that he was affected by his balance being reduced, as well as 
the time taken out of his working day.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said that Barclays couldnt have set up a 
fraud investigation when Mr F first reported the fraud, because the payments were pending 
and might still not be claimed by the recipient.  The investigator also  thought that Barclays 
had resolved the problem by refunding Mr F within a suitable time after the payments had 
gone through. Nor was Barclays required to keep a record of Mr Fs original fraud report until 
the payments had gone through. And as Mr F still had around £1,960 in his account at the 
time, the investigator didnt think the temporary reduction in his available funds had had a 
significant impact.
Mr F didnt agree. He said he had a number of direct debits due soon after the fraud, so the 
investigators looking at his balance at one particular time didnt reflect the pattern of 
withdrawals on his account. So he said this couldnt be used to deduce what financial 
hardship would have been caused. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I do realise how shocking and upsetting it is to find fraudulent transactions on an 
account. So I entirely understand why Mr F was so keen to report the fraud and to get it 
resolved as soon as he could.
Ive looked at what happened when Mr F reported the fraud on 3 November. I dont have 
copies of the Chat, but Ive listened to the call recordings provided by Barclays, including 
when he reported the fraud. I can understand why Mr F was frustrated.   But the most 
important thing was that Barclays did immediately block Mr Fs debit card, the details of 
which had been used for the fraudulent transactions, so this stopped any future transactions 
with the same details. It told him the replacement card would be with him within two working 
days.
The main focus of Mr Fs complaint initially was that he wanted to know why the fraud had 
happened. The adviser gave some general examples, eg if a device has been set on a cash 
machine used by the customer, or if the card details are picked up after use on an insecure 
or suspect website. But unfortunately frauds against customers accounts are very common, 
and often either the bank or the customer  wont know for sure how fraudsters have 
obtained the details of a debit card, as happened here.
Barclays has explained that it isnt possible for it to block, reverse or investigate transactions 
which are only part-way through the banking system, and are labelled as pending. 
Barclays has given a reasonable explanation of why that meant that it couldnt have started 
the fraud investigation until the transactions had completed their way through the system. 
And until the fraud team had carried out its investigations, it couldnt decide whether or not 
the transactions had been fraudulent  and until then, it wouldnt refund Mr F. Barclays has 
explained that its also always possible that a pending transaction wont actually be fully requested by a recipient, though this is unlikely when it is indeed a fraudster behind the 
payment.
So, frustrating as it would be for Mr F to see the transactions, and have the debits, Barclays 
has explained that it couldnt have carried out its full fraud investigation until after the 
transactions had completed. Looking at things impartially, as I have to, I think thats a 
reasonable explanation as to why Barclays did what it did here.
Ive gone on to look at whether it would have been reasonable for Barclays to have 
monitored the pending disputed transactions so that Mr F didnt have to ring again. Having to 
contact Barclays again would have been particularly frustrating when, because of the covid 
pandemic and the higher number of frauds, the waiting times to get through were longer than 
usual.
It does seem strange that Mr F had to call Barclays again to tell it that these transactions, 
which hed already tried to stop, had been made. But Barclays has explained that at the 
point when a transaction appears as pending, all Barclays knows at that point is that the 
recipient has requested the money, but doesnt know whether the money would be 
taken. And while there was a degree of inconvenience caused to Mr F here, I dont think 
Barclays was liable for that in a way which means it should have to compensate him.
I recognise that Mr F was frustrated and upset by the frauds. And its clear that the call with 
the first adviser on 3 November was stressful. But essentially, Barclays did all that it could 
have done at that stage. Importantly, it blocked the card, and when the disputed transactions 
did go through, it investigated promptly and refunded Mr F within reasonable timescales. I 
accept that Mr F was upset and frustrated, but ultimately the cause of that was the unknown 
fraudster. So I dont require Barclays to pay Mr F compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman