complaint
Mr H says S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two loans S.D. Taylor provided to Mr H between June 2017 and 
December 2017. A summary of Mr Hs lending history, as evidenced by S.D. Taylor, is as 
follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountMonthl
y 
Repayment
122/06/2017 28/12/2017 33 (weekly) £300.00 £64.95
228/12/2017 outstanding 45 (weekly) £375.00 £64.95
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Hs complaint and felt S.D. Taylor Limited had lent to 
him responsibly, and so didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H disagreed stating that S.D. 
Taylor manipulated his income and expenditure details to offer him a loan which is 
unaffordable. He also says he and his wife had other outstanding debts at the time, so S.D. 
Taylor Limited shouldnt have given him either of these loans. 
As Mr H disputed the initial assessment the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
S.D. Taylor Limited needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to
make sure Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that S.D. Taylor Limited should fairly
DRN-1708890and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that S.D. Taylor Limited was required 
to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
why I think S.D. Taylor Limiteds checks were proportionate for Mr Hs loans
Mr Hs first loan was for £300.00 and as per the loan agreement his maximum monthly 
repayment during the term was £64.95 (in weekly instalments). Ive seen a record of the 
information Mr H provided when this loan application was completed. It was recorded that 
Mr H had a monthly income of £1,299.00 and monthly expenses of around £978.00. So, 
after deducting his regular monthly outgoings this means he was left with a disposable 
income of £321.00. So, it looked like he had enough disposal income to make his payments 
under this loan agreement.
Mr Hs repaid his loan early and came back to S.D. Taylor Limited for a second loan. Mr Hs 
second loan was for £375.00 and his maximum monthly repayment remained at £64.95. But 
at this time his monthly income was recorded as £1,498.00 and his monthly expenses were 
recorded as £1,160.00 so after deducting this from his income, he was left with £338.00. So, 
it also looked like this loan was affordable for him. Ive considered what Mr H has said about S.D Taylor recording his income and expenditure 
details incorrectly in order to lend him more money than he could afford. But looking at the 
evidence available it looks like loan 1 was taken out in a face to face meeting, most likely to 
have been held at Mr Hs home. The documents from this sale recorded an amount for 
Mr Hs income and expenses at the time and suggests that prove of his income was verified. 
Mr H signed this document, confirming the information recorded was an accurate reflection 
of his finances at the time. Ive also seen notes from the second loan application which 
suggests Mr H provided a payslip to prove his income at the time of applying for this loan. 
So, while I have carefully considered what Mr H has said Ive not seen any further evidence 
to support this. In fact, the evidence available from the time suggests that its more likely 
than not Mr Hs income and expenditure details were recorded correctly.  
Mr H has also said he and his wife had other outstanding debts at the time and so he 
couldnt afford these loans. Mr H has provided some bank statements to evidence his 
financial difficulties at the time. But I havent seen any evidence or other information that 
S.D. Taylor Limited collected at the time of his loan applications that shows its likely it was
made aware of any financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve
prompted it to investigate Mr Hs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for S.D.
Taylor Limited to rely on the information it obtained.
It is of course possible that had Mr H taken further lending then S.D. Taylor Limited, as a 
reasonable lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But 
considering Mr H hadnt taken out any prior loans with S.D. Taylor Limited, I dont think it had 
yet reached the stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this 
information or enquiring into his wider financial circumstances.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment S.D. Taylor Limited 
carried out for Mr Hs loans were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Mr H in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13August2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman