DRN-2949422
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandled her Visa chargeback claim.
What happened
Miss B raised a chargeback claim with Barclays in June 2020 for payments she had made to 
Shearings Holidays. Barclays say they requested information from Miss B both on 17 June 
2020 and again on 13 July 2020 to support her chargeback claims, but that she didnt 
provide them with the correct information. In particular, they say had provided an invoice on 
29 June 2020 that was in relation to a completely different transaction and had nothing to do 
with her dispute. As a result, the money that had been credited to her account was 
subsequently re-debited, which caused Miss B to go into her overdraft, and Barclays sent 
her a letter on 5 October 2020 informing her that her chargeback claim had been closed. 
By the time Miss B realised she had sent the wrong invoice, she had missed the deadline to 
submit her claim with the scheme provider (Visa). Miss B says that Barclays ought to have 
notified her that she had sent the incorrect attachment, which wouldve given her the 
opportunity to send the correct invoice within Visas deadline.
Barclays offered £30 compensation in recognition of the poor service she had received but 
didnt think they ought to pay anything more as she hadnt provided the correct information to 
enable them to deal with the chargeback.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought there was an opportunity for 
Barclays to have reviewed the email sent by Miss B on 29 June 2020 and to have asked for 
the correct information. But he noted that Miss B had sent a further email in October 2020 
which provided the incorrect invoice again, so he wasnt persuaded that she would have 
been able to provide the correct invoice. The investigator therefore didnt think Barclays had 
acted unreasonably by closing the chargeback claim. Miss B disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It was incumbent on Miss B to provide the correct information to enable Barclays to 
review and process her chargeback claim. They asked for this on two separate 
occasions, but Miss B provided an invoice for canine grooming which had nothing to 
do with the dispute she had raised against Shearings Holidays. I appreciate she feels 
that Barclays should have corrected her, and I acknowledge there was potentially a 
missed opportunity here. But I do not consider this is enough to hold Barclays 
responsible for Miss B losing the opportunity to pursue her chargeback claim, as she 
hadnt provided the necessary information needed to process the claim before the 
deadline set by Visa. I also note that Barclays offered £30 in recognition of the 
unsatisfactory service Miss B received, which I consider to be fair and proportionate 
in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Miss B was not expecting the debit to be reapplied to her account, 
and that this caused her to enter into her overdraft. However, a chargeback credit 
made at the outset of a claim is a temporary refund thats subject to being reapplied 
pending the outcome of the chargeback claim. And I can see that Barclays made this 
clear to her in their letter of 17 June 2020. So I dont think Barclays can be blamed 
for Miss B entering into her overdraft, as they were entitled to take back the credit 
once the chargeback claim had been closed. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss B. But in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that Barclays cannot fairly or reasonably be held responsible for Miss Bs failed 
chargeback claim. And although they could have reached out to her sooner to inform her of 
the mistake made, I consider the £30 award offered by Barclays for this to be fair 
compensation. So I will not be directing Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK plc have made an offer to pay a total of £30.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Barclays should pay Miss B (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving 
her acceptance of this decision.
Miss B should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, 
and she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between her and Barclays as to whether the £30 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman