DRN-4078211
The complaint
Miss T is complaining that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim she made on her buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ts property was damaged when debris from a neighbours house flew into her property 
 damaging her garage roof and door. Miss T contacted QIC to claim for the damage off her 
buildings insurance policy. QIC initially offered her £2,113,11 to settle the claim, but Miss T 
said she was unable to get the work completed for that amount. So QIC said it would 
arrange for one its contractors to carry out the works. However, it later withdrew its offer to 
settle the claim as it said Miss T hadnt taken out accidental damage cover.
Miss T complained as she said that, while she may not have taken out accidental damage 
cover, the damage occurred as a result of a storm, which was covered under her policy. QIC 
maintained its decision to decline the claim, but it offered Miss T £400 in compensation for 
initially saying it would settle the claim, but then withdrawing this offer.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in a lot less detail than 
both parties have set out. I dont mean any discourtesy by this and I assure all parties that I 
have read and considered everything theyve provided. But, in this decision Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key issues. Our rules as an informal dispute resolution service 
allows me to do this.
QIC has said that damage such as what Miss T has suffered is normally covered under 
accidental damage cover. And I dont disagree with that. Its set out that this is an optional 
benefit that a policyholder can choose to either take out or not and its highlighted that 
Miss T choose to not take it out. So QIC has fairly said that Miss T isnt able to claim under 
that section of the policy. However, it should have also thought about whether the damage 
was covered under other aspects of the policy  i.e. under storm cover. While QIC says it 
has thought about this, I think it either didnt do so, or it didnt think about this fairly  Ill 
explain why.
The terms of the policy are clear in setting out what QIC will and will not cover in the event of 
a storm and says the following: 
3. Storm
We will cover loss or damage caused by a storm
We dont cover
a. loss or damage caused by frost
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges unless 
your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause;
c. loss or damage to radio and television aerials or satellite dishes and their fittings and 
masts;
d. anything that happens gradually.
Properties are designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather conditions. Damage 
caused by normal weather conditions is not covered by this policy, as normal weather 
conditions should not cause damage to a well-maintained property. 
The starting point here is the policy simply sets out that it will cover loss or damage arising 
from a storm, but sets out four scenarios where it isnt covered. So all Miss T needed to 
show is that the damage was caused by a storm. Its then for QIC to demonstrate any 
relevant exclusion clauses or a breach of condition that means, even though the loss or 
damage arises from a storm, its not covered under the terms of the policy.
Miss Ts garage was damaged by collision from debris from her neighbours property. The 
exclusions QIC has set out dont cover this situation. So, given the wording on the contract, 
the simple issue I have to decide is whether the loss or damage was caused by a storm. In 
doing so, Ive asked myself three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
QIC accepts that there was a storm as its highlighted that the highest windspeed on that day 
was 67mph. But, for the avoidance of doubt I agree with that as the policy says wind speeds 
in excess of 55mph would be considered a storm. I also dont think its unusual that debris 
will move at speed in high winds impacting and damaging properties. So Im also satisfied 
that the damage Miss T suffered is consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
So, the final question for me to consider is whether the storm conditions was the main cause 
of the damage, or whether anything else was the primary cause. And I havent seen anything 
to support this. Ultimately the debris impacted Miss Ts property due to the severity of the 
wind speeds and not due to any other reason  in particular a situation where QIC says it 
wont provide cover.
Ultimately, as I said, where Miss T can show that damage has arisen from an insured peril  
in this case a storm  its for QIC to clearly set out an exclusion or breach of condition that 
entitles it to not settle the claim. Im satisfied that Miss T has fairly demonstrated that the 
damage was caused by a storm and QIC hasnt given me anything to show that it isnt 
covered under the policy.
Miss T responded to say that she didnt have anything to add. However, QIC didnt agree 
with my provisional. In summary, it raised the following points:
It believed the underlying cause of the roof felt coming off the neighbours property would 
have been down to wear and tear. It said, in its experience, felt roof coverings cannot be 
removed by wind unless wind is able to penetrate underneath the felt in the first instance. 
It said that in order for wind to penetrate under the felt there must already be an 
underlying issue. And it said this was the main cause of the issue  not the storm. 
It maintained that the damage to Miss Ts garage came from it being impacted by the 
neighbours roof felt. And it said this incident falls under the definition of accidental 
damage as defined within the terms of the policy. So it maintained this wasnt covered 
under the policy as Miss T didnt have accidental damage cover.
Finally, it said that the images taken by the surveyor suggested that the garage roof that 
was impacted was in an aged and deteriorated condition. Therefore, it thought that its brittle condition contributed to the severity of the damaged caused by the impact. It said, 
had the garage roof been in a better condition its likely the damage caused by the 
impact would have been minor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything QIC has said in response to my provisional decision, but 
Ive come to the same conclusion. Ill now explain why.
I recognise QICs comment that the type of claim Miss T has raised is generally considered 
under the accidental damage cover of a buildings insurance policy. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont disagree with that. But QIC hasnt given me anything to say that 
the claim shouldnt also be considered under storm cover. 
QIC has essentially set out that the damage has arisen  or been exasperated  because of 
wear and tear. Ive thought about whether this is fair. As I set out in my provisional decision, 
where Miss T can show that damage has arisen from an insured peril  in this case a storm 
 its for QIC to clearly set out an exclusion or breach of condition that entitles it to not settle 
the claim. Im satisfied that Miss T has fairly demonstrated that the damage was caused 
during a storm and as a result of the high windspeeds at the time. So its for QIC to say that 
the damage has been caused or made worse by wear and tear. 
However, QIC hasnt given me anything other than its own thoughts on what may have 
happened to support this. I note QICs comments that the third partys roof must have been 
in poor condition to enable the wind to get underneath it to rip it off. However, it hasnt given 
anything to support that. But, even if it did, the roof still came off in the storm and its the 
storm that is this that has caused the damage to Miss Ts garage.
I note QICs comments around the condition to Miss Ts garage. But, crucially, Im conscious 
the surveyor report itself makes no reference to Miss Ts garage being in a poor state of 
repair, or the damage is down to anything other than impact from her neighbours roof felt. 
Ultimately, I remain of the opinion that the damage occurred to Miss Ts roof as a result of 
the high wind speeds at the time and Im satisfied that the terms of the policy set out that 
QIC will cover loss or damage in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
1. Put Miss Ts garage back to the position it was before the storm, subject to Miss T 
paying her excess of £350;
2. Arrange to repair or replace any goods that Miss T can show have been damaged as a 
consequence of the garage not being fixed; and
3. Pay Miss T £400 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman