DRN-2374955
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain how Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has handled their claim on 
their new homes warranty.
What happened
Amtrust has used a third party to administer the claim. But for ease anything the third party 
has said or done will be referred to as Amtrust.
Mr and Mrs N bought their new home in October 2017.
Defects were observed in November 2017: 
oWater ingress through external stone portico, causing cracking and staining to 
walls, causing lime and salt damage to portico, front door and external light.
Mr and Mrs N said the builder/developer promised to resolve issues but went into 
administration before it was able to, so Mr and Mrs N made a claim on their new 
home warranty in December 2018.
Mr and Mrs N feel theyve been treated unfairly during their claim and to put matters 
right, they would like Amtrust to do the following.
oRefund £350 for the surveyors report;
oReplace the front door with a like for like door;
oRemove the condition that they must pay for another surveyors report if 
further issues occur with the portico; and
oPay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. She felt the front door should be 
repaired or replaced as per the policy terms. But didnt uphold the remaining items Mr 
and Mrs N wanted to put things right as listed above.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed they feel theyve been treated differently and unfairly to other 
claimants. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Refund of surveyors report
From what Ive seen there were at least three properties affected by the same defect. 
Amtrust has shown it only went to the first property that reported it and that was also 
because that property had a number of other issues  so it needed to confirm if all those 
issues were defects covered by the policy.
However, it asked all owners to get estimates for the works required. So as far as I can see 
only one out of the three properties was inspected and Im therefore satisfied Mr and Mrs N 
were not treated differently or unfairly. 
From what I can see Mr and Mrs N also received some benefit from this as when they did 
submit their two estimates in February 2019, Amtrust could see the works needed for the 
cavity tray hadnt been included and was able to advise them to get this work included in the 
estimate. Mr and Mrs N submitted the revised estimates in early June 2019. A couple of 
weeks later Amtrust accepted the work and issued a form of acceptance.
However, Mr and Mrs N didnt return the form of acceptance until August 2019 along with the 
surveyors report that they had commissioned on 19 July 2019. 
Ive seen no evidence that Amtrust requested Mr and Mrs N to provide a surveyors report. 
Amtrust had told them several weeks before the report was commissioned that the estimate 
had been accepted and it had agreed the list of works within that estimate. The surveyors 
report has not highlighted anything new. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs N mayve had reservations and wanted peace of mind that the 
portico could be repaired and didnt require full replacement. But it remains that Amtrust 
didnt request this report and the policy doesnt cover fees incurred by the policyholder in 
investigating and/or preparing a claim. So, I wont be asking Amtrust to cover this cost.
I understand Mr and Mrs N believe not all aspects of their surveyors report were considered. 
But from what Ive seen Im satisfied that the works Amtrust agreed to, were works 
mentioned in Mr and Mrs Ns surveyor report.
Front door
This item is no longer disputed and Amtrust has agreed to get a surface medic to inspect the 
damage and carry out the relevant repairs or replacement as per the policy. This is what Id 
have instructed it to do if it hadnt agreed with our investigators view on this point.
Remove the condition that they must pay for another surveyors report if further issues occur 
with the portico
Amtrust have said if further issues occur with the portico a report will be required to confirm 
this is unrelated to the previous issue and is not a failure of the contractor works. This is not 
uncommon when works have been carried out on a previous claim. Also, the onus is on the 
policyholder to demonstrate a claim against the policy. So, I wont be instructing Amtrust to 
do anything differently in relation to this point.
Compensation
I understand Mr and Mrs N feel theyve been treated unfairly by Amtrust and differently to 
their neighbours. But I havent seen evidence that Amtrust have been unfair as mentioned 
above. Also, Amtrust didnt request the report and I havent seen that Amtrust has caused Mr 
and Mrs N any avoidable detriment or inconvenience, so I wont be instructing it to award 
any compensation.   
Putting things right
 For the reasons given above I direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:Appoint a surface medic to inspect the front door damage and carry out the relevant 
repairs or replacement as per the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman