DRN-3081921
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an annual worldwide travel insurance policy with URV. They were on 
holiday in Tobago when they were made aware that the border was to close on 22 March 
2020 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs S were originally booked to fly home on 
29 March, however, their flight was cancelled. They received a refund from the flight 
operator, but they had to pay more for their rescheduled flights with a different airline. Mr and 
Mrs S claimed the difference through their travel policy with URV, but their claim was 
declined. 
Our investigator said that URV had declined the claim fairly because there was no cover 
available in the circumstances. He said that the curtailment section of the policy offered no 
cover despite the Foreign Commonwealth Office instructing them to return to the UK. And 
so, he didnt think URV had made a mistake by declining their claim. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with that and said that the claim should be considered under 
the scheduled airline failure section of the policy. They said, in summary, that theres cover 
for £2,500 for having to rearrange flights and that this best describes what they had to do. 
They also said its reasonable to expect that airline failure relates to their particular 
circumstances and not only for airlines that experience financial worries. Theyd like an 
ombudsman to take a look and so its for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im satisfied their travel 
policy doesnt offer the level of cover needed to uphold this complaint. I agree with the 
reasons already explained by our investigator and would like to echo his arguments about 
why URV hasnt made an error. The policy offers cover for curtailment, thats to say cutting 
their trip short, however the reason this happened isnt one of the insured perils and so URV 
doesnt have to do anything more here. Ive also considered Mr and Mrs S arguments about 
why they believe their claim should be upheld against the backdrop of the airline failure, but 
Im not persuaded by them, Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
If you have to cut your trip short 
If this happened:
You had to cut short your trip because the following unexpectedly happened after you left 
home;
 you, your travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person you
were staying with became ill, was injured or died;
 you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
 you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces has your leave orders cancelled.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to £5,000 for your share of any unused accommodation, car hire and
excursions that are directly related to your trip which you have paid for and cannot get
back from anyone else, as well as any additional travel expenses incurred to get you home
Because theres no mention of having to cut their trip short for the reasons they did, Mr and 
Mrs S werent covered by their policy and so URV was entitled to decline their claim. Ive 
carefully considered whether there was any other section of the policy that could have 
provided cover, but Im satisfied there wasnt. I also thought about what would have 
happened had Mr and Mrs S stayed in Tobago, essentially ignoring the FDCO advice, 
however they wouldnt have been covered by their policy in those circumstances either. 
This is important because I think it shows that Mr and Mrs S would have always incurred 
costs to return home. Theres also no mention of their policy offering cover for having to cut 
their trip short because of FDCO guidance. I know this likely to come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs S but insurance cannot cover every eventuality and its unfortunate that their 
policy offered such a limited level of cover. 
Mr and Mrs S argued that their claim should have been considered against the airline failure 
section of the policy, however, I disagree. I say that because that part of the policy is 
intended to provide cover to those consumers who are caught by airline failure, rather than 
airline cancellations. They are totally separate circumstances and whilst I acknowledge Mr 
and Mrs S comments about their original airline failing to bring them home, I dont consider it 
the same as airline failure. I should add that the policy also confirms that airline failure refers 
to the financial failure of the airline. And so, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this 
complaint.    
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied URV hasnt made an error declining their 
claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman