DRN-1158815
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a request to withdraw money 
from her bank account.
What happened
Mrs B visited a branch of Barclays to withdraw some money from her joint account and her 
sole account. However, instead of withdrawing from those two accounts, Barclays withdrew 
some of the money from her husbands sole account. She only found out about this when 
she received an angry phone call from her husband the next day.
Mrs B complained to Barclays. It accepted that it shouldnt have withdrawn the money from 
her husbands account. It sent her flowers and chocolates to apologise, offered £100 
compensation and gave her a further £50 to transfer to her husband to cover any potential 
overdraft charges. It said the member of staff would receive feedback and appropriate 
training.
Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator said that Barclays had responded 
appropriately to Mrs Bs complaint and didnt need to do anything further.
As Mrs B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B said that when she went into the branch to withdraw the money, the first member of 
staff she spoke to threatened her with default charges and unauthorised overdraft fees for 
withdrawing the money. Another member of staff then took Mrs B to an office to speak to 
her. That staff member took both of Mrs Bs bank cards to withdraw the money and then 
returned with the money and some payment slips showing the amount withdrawn. Mrs B 
then left the branch. The next morning, Mrs Bs husband phoned her to say that she had 
withdrawn money from his sole account. He was very angry.
Mrs B immediately went to another branch of Barclays to deal with this. While she waited for 
the branch to open, she also phoned Barclays complaints department to raise a complaint. 
Mrs B said the branch was able to deal with the matter after she spent much of the morning 
there trying to resolve it.
I have thought about this carefully. Im aware that this was a distressing incident for Mrs B 
and that it had a negative impact on her relationship with her husband. I should note that I 
can only consider Mrs Bs complaint in terms of how Barclays dealt with her and the impact 
on her. I cant consider the aspects about Barclays accessing Mrs Bs husbands sole 
account, as she isnt the account holder and therefore isnt eligible to bring a complaint about 
that. 
Mrs B was unhappy with how staff dealt with her in the branch when she asked to withdraw 
the money. Whilst I dont know exactly what happened, I accept that Mrs B found the visit 
distressing and that this was made worse by her then finding out that money had been 
withdrawn from the wrong account.
Ive considered what Barclays did to resolve the issue. As part of that Mrs B had to spend 
time in another branch so that it could look into the issue. Barclays accepted that it shouldnt 
have withdrawn money from Mrs Bs husbands account. It offered her compensation and 
acted on her request for it to cover any potential overdraft charges that might have resulted 
from its actions. It also followed up with the staff member who had transferred the money 
and sent Mrs B flowers and chocolates. In the circumstances, I think Barclays was 
reasonable in how it dealt with the issue.
However, I am aware that Mrs B thinks that she should be awarded more compensation due 
to the difficulties Barclays actions caused to her relationship. I can understand why Mrs B 
thinks this, but having thought about the actions that Barclays has taken and the level of 
compensation already offered, this is in line with what I would expect and what I would 
award in the circumstances. On that basis, I dont think that Barclays needs to pay any more 
compensation or take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
However, Barclays Bank UK PLC is required to:
pay Mrs B the £100 compensation that it offered if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman