DRN-3711020
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by GM2 Ltd to transfer the benefits from his defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension 
plan. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). Mr W says he chose to 
opt-into the BSPS2.
Nevertheless, Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant 
for the security of his pension, so he sought advice. I understand that Mr W initially received 
advice from a different business, which couldnt be completed. So, following a referral from a 
colleague, on 21 December 2017 Mr W made contact with GM2 Ltd. Mr W was asked to 
complete a fact-find to enable GM2 Ltd to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr W was aged 39; he was married with 
two dependent children; he and his wife jointly owned their home, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £50,000 with 12 years remaining; he had no savings or investments to 
speak of; and he wanted to stop working at 57 on an income of (minimum) £2,000 a month 
but with a target income of £2,500 - £3,000. Mr W also indicated here that he was a 
moderate investor  GM2 Ltds assessment was that he was a medium risk investor.
On 12 January 2018, GM2 Ltd advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement and invest the proceeds initially in cash with a view to moving the 
funds to a portfolio of appropriate investment funds after the completion of the transfer. 
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: to provide 
Mr W with flexibility and the ability to draw a combination of income and lump sums from his 
pension to tailor his withdrawals, tax efficiently, alongside any other sources of income; and 
to provide better lump sum death benefits. The recommendation also referred to early 
retirement being an important consideration for Mr W and well as Ws concerns about his 
existing scheme and his preference to have his pension under his own control.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and in April 2018 around £260,000 was transferred to 
his new personal pension plan. In May 2018 Mr W met with GM2 Ltd again to discuss and 
arrange the investment of his pension funds in line with his stated attitude to risk.
Mr W complained to GM2 Ltd in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice because 
hed received a letter from the regulator, which said he might have received unsuitable 
advice to transfer out of the BSPS.
Because GM2 Ltd didnt complete its investigation of Mr Ws complaint within the required 
timeframe, Mr W asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider his complaint. One of 
our investigators looked at things and they upheld the complaint and required GM2 Ltd to 
pay compensation. In summary they said the advice wasnt suitable. They said Mr W had no 
firm plans for retirement and GM2 Ltd failed to carry out a detailed analysis of his needs in 
retirement. They said Mr W couldve opted into the BSPS2 and delayed any decision about 
transferring until much closer to his retirement when his needs would be clearer. As an 
example of how Mr Ws plans might be different to those estimated at the time of the advice, 
they said Mr W had gone on to purchase a new property rather than extend his existing one 
recorded in the advice paperwork, which meant his mortgage now extended beyond age 70.
The investigator went on to say that Mr W couldve met his income needs in part by retaining 
his DB scheme benefits and then drawing on his workplace pension flexibly to supplement 
things. They said it was important for Mr W to retain his guaranteed benefits as this was the 
only source of guaranteed income he had. They said GM2 Ltds cashflow analysis showing 
how his DB scheme couldnt support his income need from age 67 did not factor in his wifes 
pension income.
They said death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over providing an income in 
retirement and that life assurance couldve met Mr Ws objective of providing for his family. 
And they said Mr Ws concerns about the BSPS shouldve been managed appropriately by 
GM2 Ltd. The investigator challenged GM2 Ltds amended assessment of Mr Ws risk profile 
from medium risk to higher medium  they didnt think this was appropriate in his 
circumstances and the long-term to retirement. The investigator concluded that the transfer 
wasnt financially viable based on the required growth rate to match Mr Ws DB scheme 
benefits and that hed have to take on significantly greater investment risk just to match his 
BSPS benefits. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr W wouldve remained in the 
BSPS and subsequently moved to the BSPS2. 
GM2 disagreed. Firstly in relation to any redress award it said any calculation must be made 
against the PPF and not the BSPS2 because it was not guaranteed to go ahead the time. 
And in relation to the investigators key findings, in summary it said:
At the time of the advice the FCAs view on DB transfer was neutral and so the 
investigators assessment of the suitability of Mr Ws transfer should be from a 
neutral stance.
The key issue that has been ignored here are the timings and the likelihood that, if a 
transfer wasnt carried out the time, the opportunity would not be available in the 
future given that the PPF was the most likely outcome and the only option which was 
guaranteed to come into existence. To assume Mr W could transfer out of the BSPS2 
in the future assumes the scheme would exist in the future.
Any future transfer value from a potential new scheme offering lower benefits would 
be lower.Mr Ws BSPS benefits was not the only source of guaranteed income as his wife had 
a DB pension, which was the bedrock of their guaranteed income.
It disagreed that Mr Ws choice to subsequently extend his mortgage impacts the 
suitability of the advice.
The transferred funds wouldve benefitted Mr Ws children without an age limit, unlike 
Mr Ws DB scheme.
The cashflow / income projections did include Mr Ws wifes pension income.
It said it did provide reassurance about the PPF  it provided full details and 
highlighted the benefits available to Mr W through the PPF.
The investigators comment about risk and the long term to retirement runs counter to 
the commonly accepted risk practices and investment advice.
Given the investigators quoted discount rate of 4.6% versus the required critical yield 
of 4.77% does not suggest Mr W had to take investment risk significantly above the 
level he was prepared to take. The critical yield to match the PPF was 4.2%, which 
was lower than the discount rate and so supports the advice to transfer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the matter was passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of GM2 Ltd's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.I can see in the reply to GM2 Ltds rejection of their findings, the investigator clarified the 
regulatory rules and the presumption of unsuitability when a business advises on DB 
transfers. And while these rules are for businesses, as I set out above, I take them into 
account in my consideration of what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. For the avoidance of doubt, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that 
it is unsuitable. So, GM2 Ltd should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. 
Financial viability 
GM2 Ltd carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see that one of the pieces of 
analysis was based on the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2. GM2 Ltds 
suitability report explained that Mr W now had a choice  either remain with the existing 
scheme and move with it to the PPF or choose to switch to the BSPS2. But at the time of the 
written advice the deadline for Mr W to be able to opt-into the BSPS2 had passed, so he no 
longer had that choice. Nevertheless, because Mr W has said he did choose to opt into the 
BSPS2 before the 22 December 2017 deadline, it was appropriate (whether by design or 
good fortune) for GM2 Ltd to consider the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 in 
its analysis and advice.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 39 at the time of the advice and he indicated that he wanted to retire at 57. The 
TVAS dated 9 January 2018 set out the relevant critical yields: at age 57 it was 5.65% per 
year assuming Mr W took a full pension. No critical yield was calculated assuming Mr W took 
a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The critical yields required to match the benefits 
provided by the PPF at age 57 were 5.22% a year assuming Mr W took a full pension and 
4.94% a year assuming a cash lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.4% per year for 17 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little 
point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the critical yield 
was 5.65% based on the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2, which hed chosen 
to opt into. I can see in GM2 Ltds response to the investigators assessment that it referred 
to a critical yield figure of 4.77% and a discount rate of 4.6% and argues that Mr W didnt 
need to take significant risk to achieve the required return. But crucially these figures are 
based on a retirement age of 65. But Mr W indicated his target retirement age was 57 and this is what the advice was predicated on. So it is the critical yields based on the benefits 
available to Mr W at age 57 which are relevant here.
So given the required return of 5.65% was over 1% higher than the discount rate and still 
above the regulators middle projection rate, albeit by less than 1%, I think at best Mr W was 
likely to be in no better position at retirement, but more likely he would receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal 
pension, as a result of investing in line with a medium attitude to risk. Im mindful that the 
critical yield based on a reduced pension would likely be lower (if GM2 Ltd had produced 
analysis on this basis), but I dont think it wouldve been substantially lower such that it 
wouldve made a difference to my finding  I dont think there was much scope, if any to 
improve on the benefits available through the BSPS2. And I dont think the position was any 
different if the scheme moved to the PPF.
I can see the investigator referred to Mr Ws risk assessment as highest medium. But this 
appears to have been following a subsequent risk assessment later in 2018. At the time of 
the advice, Im satisfied Mr Ws risk profile was categorised as medium. 
GM2 has made several references to the fact that Mr Ws wife had a DB pension scheme, so 
Mr Ws BSPS benefits were not the only source of guaranteed income. It describes Mr Ws 
wifes pension income as the bedrock of their guaranteed income. I accept that Mr Ws wife 
also had guaranteed pension benefits. But I dont think that automatically means Mr W was 
in a position to risk his own DB scheme pension. At the time Mr Ws preserved benefits were 
greater than his wifes and while she had scope to gain more years service and accrue a 
larger pension than she was currently entitled to at retirement, Im mindful that not only was 
Mr Ws wife several years younger than him, the normal retirement age for what would be 
the majority of her DB pension income was 68. So, Mr W would be well into his 70s before 
Mr Ws wifes pension was payable  assuming she didnt take it early. So I think it wouldve 
been important for Mr W to have a guaranteed source of income in the earlier years of his 
retirement, which his BSPS could provide. Mr W already had a risk-based pension in the 
form of his current work place pension scheme, so Im not persuaded it was necessary or 
appropriate for him to place all of his future retirement provision at risk. I think Mr Ws 
willingness to adopt a medium level of risk with his pension benefits couldve been more 
appropriately focused on the investment choices within his DC pension scheme.
GM2 Ltd produced a number of cashflow models scenarios at the time of the advice to show  
that Mr W wouldve been able to meet his income need by transferring and that, while the 
DB scheme could meet his target income need assuming it remained static, if allowance was 
made for a 2% a year increase, a shortfall would occur. Ive considered these carefully.
Firstly and perhaps most importantly, Im not persuaded Mr W knew with any degree of 
certainty what his income need in retirement would be. Mr W still had a significant period of 
his working life in front of him and his needs would likely change over time. I think this likely 
explains why the word unsure is handwritten next to the estimated income in retirement 
section in the fact-find alongside the figures of minimum income £2,000 a month and target 
income £2,500 - £3,000 a month. 
But in any event, it doesnt appear that GM2 Ltd attempted to carry out anything that could 
reasonably be described as a detailed assessment of Mr Ws likely income and expenditure 
need to arrive at these figures. While I acknowledge it provided a checklist of possible 
expenditure items in this section of the fact find, it seems any calculation was left to Mr W to 
do.
Turning to the analysis itself  GM2 Ltd produced a scenario based on a monthly income 
need of £2,500 increasing by 2% a year, which showed that Mr Ws DB scheme income couldnt support this need and that from age 67 to 74, once hed used his DC scheme 
pension fund up, hed face a significant income shortfall  in some years more than £29,000.
Ive already said Im not persuaded how realistic this need was. In this scenario at age 65 
Mr Ws net income need is shown as over £50,000 a year, which on the face of it strikes me 
as being quite high.
But in the alternative scenario of transferring, this showed that Mr W could access the 
income he needed from his pension supplemented by his other income sources and that by 
age 95 hed still have a fund value of over £120,000. However, Im mindful that GM2 Ltds 
analysis assumed a consistent annual growth rate (3%) and it did not include any stress 
testing of the model. For example it didnt show the impact on Mr Ws fund in the event of a 
period of poor or lower than expected performance, or for example a sudden fall in the 
market in the early years of the investment. I think its possible the position couldve looked 
quite different and I think this wouldve been helpful to Mr W.
Looking at the scenario of a £2,000 a month income need (escalating) assuming 
Mr W retained his DB scheme benefits - I can see this shows he would have a shortfall in his 
income need from age 69 to 74. In this scenario, GM2 Ltd assumes that Mr W would start 
drawing his DB pension from age 58. But in doing so, taking into account the other sources 
of income  i.e. his wife would continue to work  this produces an annual surplus of just 
under £9,000. And this surplus continues for the next five years reaching a surplus of a little 
under £10,000 by the time Mr W is 63. So if Mr W saved this surplus income over this 
period, the total amount would be more than sufficient to plug the shortfall from age 69 to 74 
 a total deficit requirement of around £51,000. Alternatively, given Mr Ws wife could meet 
their joint income need from Mr Ws target retirement age of 57 until 64, Mr W could possibly 
delay taking his DB scheme benefits until this time meaning his starting income would be 
substantially higher and closer to the £16,048 a year estimated full pension amount at age. 
Mr W could then use his workplace DC pension to supplement his income need and meet 
any shortfall to age 74, which would be a lot lower in this scenario. 
Overall, based on financial viability alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was 
in Mr Ws best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower, or no improvement on the benefits available through the DB 
scheme. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons GM2 Ltd recommended the transfer was to meet Mr Ws objective 
for flexibility  to enable him to draw a flexible income and to tailor his withdrawals 
depending on other income, which it said wasnt available through the DB scheme.
But Im not persuaded that Mr W knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr W was 39 at the time of the advice. And while its possible he had given his future 
retirement some thought, given it was at least 18 years away and he still had a significant 
period of his working life in front of him, I dont think he had anything that could reasonably 
be described as a firm retirement plan. Mr Ws desire to want to retire early at 57, was, in my 
view, likely based on the current earliest age he would be entitled to access his benefits 
rather than being a firm objective of Mr Ws. I accept Mr W liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option available to him  
he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I also accept Mr W couldnt take his DB 
scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced 
annual pension, Mr W had to take those benefits at the same time. But nothing here 
indicates that Mr W had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his 
income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr W had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement. So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a 
consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Ws at the time.
But crucially, Mr W was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And the nature of 
a DC scheme means this already provided Mr W with flexibility  he wasnt committed to 
take these benefits in a set way. GM2 Ltd recorded that a total of 16% of Mr Ws salary was 
being invested here  a combination of employer and employee contributions. So by age 57, 
based on current contributions alone and without accounting for growth, salary increases or 
increases in contribution rate, this could amount to around £92,000. And based on GM2 
Ltds own analysis, this showed it could be worth just under £124,000 at age 57 based on an 
assumed growth rate of 3%. And as the analysis also shows, Mr W couldve taken lump 
sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. 
So, I think if Mr W retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, 
wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr W didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. And he didnt have
to sacrifice this by opting into the BSPS2. But if Mr W did in fact have a greater need for
flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his
intended retirement age. GM2 Ltd ought reasonably to have known that Mr W had chosen to 
opt into the BSPS2, so he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if 
his needs later demanded it. I think GM2 Ltd couldve explained this more clearly to Mr W.
Turning to Mr Ws income need  as Ive already discussed, I dont think Mr W was in a 
position to say with any certainty what his income need would be in 18 years time. 
Nevertheless, it was recorded that as a minimum hed need £2,000 net a month, with a 
target of £2,500 - £3,000. Im not persuaded that Mr Ws need would require a consistent 
year-on-year increase of 2% - the evidence doesnt suggest Mr W was seeking a lavish 
lifestyle in retirement, which necessitated an ever-increasing income need at that rate. So, I 
still think Mr W could likely meet his income need either through the BSPS2 or the PPF (if 
the new scheme didnt go ahead.)
For example, at age 57 and according to GM2 Ltds analysis, Mr W would be entitled to an 
annual pension of £10,672 through the BSPS2. But at this time Mr Ws wife would likely 
continue to work for another five or six years and its possible her income alone would meet 
their household need. As I said earlier on, this might give scope for Mr W to either delay 
taking his benefits to allow for a higher starting income or he could save any excess income 
for later use. Either way, when Mr Ws wife stopped working, Mr W could supplement things 
by accessing his DC pension flexibly. I think this would likely have a not insignificant amount 
at this time, which Mr W could use as and when needed. Mr Ws wifes pension would then 
later become payable and theyd both receive their state pensions at the appropriate age. 
Im mindful too that, given it appears Mr W and his wife jointly had a not insignificant monthly 
disposable income at the time of the advice, I think this couldve given Mr W capacity to save 
this excess income in the years to his retirement to provide a further source of 
supplementary income.
So, it seems likely that if Mr W did decide to retire at 57, which in my view was by no means 
certain, he couldve met his income need by remaining in the DB scheme and using the other sources of income available to supplement things at the various required stages. I 
dont think Mr W needed to risk his guaranteed benefits at this stage to achieve things.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr W wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And
while the income Mr W would receive was lower than the pension hed be entitled to
under the BSPS2, it wasnt estimated to be substantially lower such that it wouldve made a
difference to the recommendation - according to GM2 Ltd the difference was negligible at 
age 57. As Ive said above, while Mr Ws retirement plans and needs werent in anyway 
formulated, there were other sources of income available as well as his DC scheme to draw 
on flexibly.
So, overall I think Mr W couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the
BSPS2 or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his
pension just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
The suitability report recorded that providing for his family in the event of his death was one 
of his main priorities. And GM2 Ltd recommended the transfer to enable Mr W to be able to 
pass on all of his remaining funds within his pension to his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married, so the 50% spouses pension wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr W 
predeceased her. I dont think GM2 Ltd made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr W. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also 
be calculated as if no cash lump sum had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, GM2 Ltd should not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful that Mr W already had lump sum death benefits available to him through his 
workplace DC scheme  he also had death-in-service benefit, which wouldve paid out in the 
event of Mr Ws death before retirement. And Mr W couldve nominated his wife and/or 
children as beneficiaries of these if he hadnt already done so. But if Mr W genuinely wanted 
to leave a legacy for his wife and/or children, which didnt depend on investment returns or 
how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think GM2 Ltd shouldve instead 
explored and ultimately recommended additional life insurance. And the starting point here 
neednt have necessarily been to base the cover and the sum assured on the full transfer 
value  that would essentially assume Mr W would pass away on day one following the 
transfer, which isnt realistic. 
Ultimately, Mr W wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife, which would 
be a lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
wife and/or children, taking into account his existing means and this couldve been explored 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide 
and affordable given Mr Ws age and his apparent monthly disposable income. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a suitable alternative
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I understand that Mr W, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and he was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of negative 
things circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr W was leaning towards the 
decision to transfer because of these concerns. But it was GM2 Ltds obligation to give 
Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
Mr W had already chosen to opt-into the BSPS2, so to a certain extent some of Mr Ws 
concerns about moving to the PPF would have likely fallen away. But even if there was a 
chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that GM2 Ltd shouldve reassured Mr W that 
the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or had been led to 
believe. 
Importantly Mr W still had the option of taking early retirement through the PPF. 
Mr W didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think the income available to 
Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which the other means available 
to him, including his DC scheme could supplement to meet his overall income need at 
retirement. Crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr W might not have been able to 
later transfer out of the PPF, which is something GM2 Ltd has argued. But given what I said 
earlier on about Mr W already having flexibility, I dont think there was an apparent need for 
him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Ws concerns about his DB scheme was a compelling or suitable 
reason to recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But GM2 
Ltd wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF if the BSPS2 
didnt go ahead). By transferring to a personal pension arrangement Mr W was, in my view, 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at his intended retirement age. And I dont think 
there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this.
Mr W didnt have any firm retirement plans given his age, so he shouldnt have been advised 
to transfer out of the BSPS just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, 
and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme. And just because any future transfer value from the new scheme would 
likely be lower, this is not of itself a suitable reason for Mr W to have transferred at this time.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension at this time. And I think GM2 Ltd shouldve advised Mr W that, his decision to opt into the BSPS2 as a precautionary measure was a suitable one and in the 
circumstances in his best interests.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against GM2 
Ltd's advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against GM2 Ltds advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr W was likely motivated to transfer when he approached GM2 Ltd, and Im 
mindful that he received advice to transfer from another business before he met with GM2 
Ltd, I nevertheless still think Mr W wouldve listened to and followed GM2 Ltds advice if 
things had happened as they should have and it recommended he not transfer out of the 
scheme. Mr W was not an experienced investor  so he was not, in my view, someone who 
possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they were 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ws pension accounted for the majority of 
his own private retirement provision at the time and it was his only source of private 
guaranteed pension income. And in my view, it would continue to be an important and 
significance source of income at Mr Ws retirement age. So, if GM2 Ltd had provided Mr W 
with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If GM2 Ltd 
had explained that Mr W could likely meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, on balance, I dont think Mr W 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against GM2 Ltds advice.
In light of the above, I think GM2 Ltd should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And as 
per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for
comparison purposes.
I can see GM2 Ltd has argued that any redress should be based on the PPF and not the 
BSPS2 because it was only a proposal - it wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at the time. I think 
this argument is somewhat redundant now following the introduction of the FCAs BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate the redress under the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme. This requires businesses to determine which scheme a consumer wouldve joined  
either the BSPS2 or the PPF  and that the default scheme is the BSPS2. Because I have 
instructed GM2 Ltd to use this calculator to calculate Mr Ws redress, and in this case the 
evidence is clear that Mr W chose to opt into the BSPS2, Im satisfied the BSPS2 is the 
comparator scheme GM2 Ltd should use in its calculations. I think this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish GM2 Ltd  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr W. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr Ws retirement provision is 
clearly of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some 
distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and then joined the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
GM2 Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
GM2 Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what GM2 Ltd based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, GM2 Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts GM2 Ltds offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, GM2 Ltd may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. GM2 Ltd should also pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require GM2 Ltd to pay Mr W 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
GM2 Ltd pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on GM2 Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman