DRN-2238195
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Miss M has told us she was living with her parents and had been employed in her job for a 
year at the time of the sale. Shes told us she was entitled to sick pay but didnt have any 
savings or anything else like that to help pay her card if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss Ms representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. Also Miss M told us she wished to appeal.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Miss M has told us she wasnt aware she had PPI or aware she could have the card 
without it. She says that if shed known she wouldve opted out of it because she didnt 
need it due to her entitlement to sick pay and the help her parents couldve given her.
Ive given careful consideration to Miss Ms recollections. But I also take into account that 
she set these out for us more than 15 years after taking the card  so it wouldnt be 
surprising if she didnt recall everything in detail. So in weighing up what shes told us, I 
also take into account the other evidence we have  like evidence from the time of the 
sale itself, like the application form Miss M completed to apply for her card. 
Miss M applied for her card by completing a postal application form. This had a section 
headed Additional Information where various services were offered - with boxes to tick 
to say either yes or no to each of them. So the PPI part had boxes to tick to say either 
yes or no to the PPI  referred to as Capital Ones Payment Protection scheme. On 
Miss Ms form, which she signed to apply for the card, the yes box is ticked  and I think 
she wouldve known to tick no instead if she didnt want the cover. Also, nothing on the 
form suggests that Miss M had to take the PPI or had to tick the box to say yes to it. 
With all this in mind, on balance what I have makes me think Capital One did make it 
clear that Miss M could have the card without the PPI  in fact the PPI was presented as 
optional and was only added because Miss M chose to say yes to it. So I think she 
chose to take it knowing that she didnt have to. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
The application form says a leaflet was enclosed giving information about the PPI. I dont 
know how much of this Miss M read and its possible the information Capital One gave 
her about the PPI wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found she chose 
to take the cover, and I dont think she wouldve said yes to it without having at least a 
broad understanding of what it was and the cover it provided - so it looks to me like she 
wanted this type of cover. 
Also I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Miss M - and she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to it. For example, she didnt have 
health issues that mightve interfered with her ability to claim on the policy for accident or 
sickness. Also, nothing about her job or employment wouldve made it hard for her to 
claim on the policy for unemployment. Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar 
to what its likely Miss M thought she was buying from the information she was given.
The policy could pay out for up to 12 months per claim. Miss M was entitled to sick pay, 
but Ive seen nothing to persuade me she wouldve received this at full pay for as long as 
12 months  so it looks like the policy benefit couldve been useful. Ive thought about all 
shes said about help she couldve got from her parents, but Miss M was responsible for 
paying her card and other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change  also I 
note she chose to take the cover at the time in any event.
With all Ive said above in mind, bearing in mind also the policy cost which appears to 
have been affordable, I dont think Miss M wouldve declined the cover had Capital One 
done anything more in terms of the information it gave her when she applied.
The policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, restricting in particular the circumstances in which a claim could be 
made for mental health issues. But in light of Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale, 
and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her 
 and I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it..
Overall, I consider Miss M wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and, given her circumstances, I think it couldve provided 
a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or become too sick 
to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve taken the policy in any event.Miss Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Capital One should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on 
the chances of making a claim.
Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Im grateful to Miss M for her attention and assistance in providing us promptly with her 
further points, and for her courtesy throughout our consideration of her complaint.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman