DRN-3837948
The complaint
Ms F, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
sufficient proportionate affordability checks before it lent to her.
What happened
Ms F was advanced five home collected loans between August 2017 and July 2021. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £1,000.00 11/08/2017 07/08/2018 52 £35.00
2 £500.00 07/08/2018 08/08/2019 52 £17.50
3 £650.00 08/08/2019 09/07/2020 52 £22.75
4 £650.00 09/07/2020 12/06/2021 53 £22.75
5 £500.00 24/07/2021 15/04/2022 35 £25.00
Following Ms Fs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold it. Ms Fs representative, then referred the complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 - 2 and so she didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint about these loans.
But she thought loans 3 - 6 should be upheld because the lending had become harmful for
her.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached, and Ive read and
considered everything it has provided.
Ms Fs representative confirmed receipt of the assessment, but no further comments have
been provided.
The case was then passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons 
why I was intending to uphold Ms Fs complaint in part. A copy of the provisional findings 
follows this in italics and a smaller font, and it forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms F could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Fs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms F. These factors include:
Ms F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms F.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms F could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms F was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Fs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms F (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 2. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
Loan 3
The adjudicator upheld the loan because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Ms F.
I accept, that Ms F had been indebted with Morses for around 2 years by the time this loan
was advanced  and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 52 weeks.
This, in some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the
very least having longer term money management problems.
However, the lending wasnt always increasing in value and there didnt appear to have been
any previous repayment problems, in servicing loans 1 and 2. So, taking everything together,
I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised this loan was unsustainable for Ms F
and Im therefore intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to be so harmful that it
wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt and increased weekly commitment from loan 2 for this loan ought to have alerted
Morses to the possibility that Ms F may have been having some wider financial problems.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms F declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Ms F couldafford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Fs actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Fs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Fs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Ms F couldnt afford it.
Ms Fs representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements
covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be
sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold
the complaint about this loan.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 3 shouldnt have been granted.
So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Fs complaint about the loan.
Loans 4 and 5
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms F for details of her income and
expenditure. She declared, for each loan an income of £380 for loan 4 and £250 for loan 5.
Ms F declared £140.75 worth of weekly outgoings for loan 4 and £118 for loan 5. This left a
minimum weekly disposable income of £232 to meet her largest weekly repayment of £25.
Based solely on Ms Fs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms F had
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew
about Ms Fs finances and the lending. For example, Ms F returning for further borrowing on
the same day a previous loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for
Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the information it was being given.
Ive not seen anything to suggest carried out further checks in this case.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms F.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern
of Morses lending history with Ms F, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further
loans.
Given the circumstances of Ms Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say
this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms F was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. Ms F had taken out four loans in 35 months. So Morses ought to
have realised it was more likely than not Ms F was having to borrow further to cover
a long-term short fall in her living costs.
While Ms F didnt have more than one loan running at the same time, they were lent
in a consecutive manner. Which could suggest that Ms F was still in need for credit
and so was likely facing longer term cash flow problems.
While it appeared that Ms F had repaid all her loans on time this only seems to have
happened because she used later loans to repay them. For example, some of loan 4went towards repaying loan 3 and the same thing occurred when loan 5 was granted.
This is an indicator that there was a constant need for new funds.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Fs weekly commitments generally
increased from loan 1. Rising from £17.50 per week at loan 2 to £25 a week at loan
5. I accept the commitment drops following loan 1  when she was committed to pay
£35 per week, but this was the first time and only time this had happened in the
relationship, but I dont think one decrease is an indicator that Ms Fs financial
position had improved throughout the later loans.
Ms F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was
taken out almost 4 years after Ms Fs first loan. While this loan was smaller than her
first loan, as the repayment term was shorter it actually increased Ms Fs weekly
commitment compared to her previous three loans. Ms F had paid large amounts of
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms F lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Fs indebtedness by allowing her
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms F borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Ms Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Fs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Response to provisional decision 
Both Morses and Ms F were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event no later than 7 December 2022. 
Ms Fs representative let us know that Ms F had accepted the findings in the provisional 
decision. 
Morses responded and provided some further comments which Ive summarised below. 
No evidence has been provided to show Ms F was using other funds in order to meet 
her repayments. 
There was a short break in lending between loans 4 and 5 
Ms F overpaid loans 3 and 4 each week, she was due to pay £22.75 for each loan 
but actually paid £25. 
Due to the overpayments, Ms F settled loan 4 earlier than contracted. 
Loan 4 was for a holiday and due to her repayment record Morses had no concerns 
about lending the money. 
A screen shot of the note the agent made when loan 4 was provided and this shows 
Ms F declared that there was no change in her circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the additional comments provided by Morses, but this doesnt change the 
outcome that Im intending to reach in this case, and Ive explained my reasons for doing so 
below.
I accept Morses has provided a copy of a note made by the agent which shows no change in 
circumstances and the loans looked affordable. However, Ive already explained that while the loans may have looked affordable, Morses checks didnt go far enough when loans 4 
and 5 were provided. So, I dont think it was right to have just relied on Ms F was telling it.  
For the same reasons that Ive outlined in the provisional decision, Morses checks really 
needed to go further before these loans were granted, I say this for a number of factors 
including, but not limited to the length of the lending relationship and the consecutive nature 
of the lending. Morses in my view, didnt do this. But as I explained previously, I do think 
there was enough in what else Morses knew to have alerted it to the fact that these loans 
were now likely unsustainable for Ms F. 
Ive considered the gap in lending of around 7 weeks, between loans 4 and 5. However, I 
dont think in this case the gap is long enough to either consider breaking the lending chain 
and / or considering that this was a sign that somehow Ms Fs financial position had changed 
significantly enough that meant the loan was no longer unsustainable or she didnt need 
further credit from Morses. 
Ive also taken another look at the statement of account, and I do agree with Morses, that 
loan 4 was fully repaid before loan 5 was taken and the early repayment charge crediting the 
account at loan 4, was likely due to Ms Fs overpayment through the life of loan 3, rather 
than her using loan 4 to settle that loan. However, I still think the final two loans for Ms F 
were unstainable. 
 I still think these loans were unstainable for Ms F and Ive explained why below.
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms F was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. Ms F had taken out four loans in 35 months. So Morses ought to
have realised it was more likely than not Ms F was having to borrow further to cover
a long-term short fall in her living costs.
So, rather than a picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of repeated borrowing. I think taking out 
five high-cost loans, over this period, is a strong indicator that Ms F was starting to 
struggle financially.
Right from the start Mrs C was usually provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling an earlier one. So, there wasnt an appreciable time when Mrs C wasnt in 
debt to Morses. This could also suggest Ms F was still in need for credit and so was 
likely facing longer term cash flow problems.
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Fs weekly commitments generally
increased from loan 1. Rising from £17.50 per week at loan 2 to £25 a week at loan
5. I accept the commitment drops following loan 1  when she was committed to pay
£35 per week, but this was the first and only time this had happened in the
relationship, but I dont think one significant decrease at the start of the lending 
relationship is an indicator that Ms Fs financial position had improved by the time of 
loans 4 and 5.
Morses has only said loan 4 was for a holiday, and it isnt necessarily or 
automatically unreasonable to use this type of credit to do this. But using a high-cost 
form of borrowing over a prolonged period is still likely to have caused financial 
problems, and in this case the evidence suggests it left Ms F with little alternative but 
to borrow again in the future.
Ms F wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was
taken out almost 4 years after Ms Fs first loan. While this loan was smaller than her
first loan, as the repayment term was shorter it actually increased Ms Fs weekly
commitment compared to her previous three loans. Ms F had paid large amounts of
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.I still think Morses was wrong to have provided loans 4 and 5 and Ive outlined below what it 
needs to do in order to put things right for Ms F. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened if it hadnt lent loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms F may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Ms F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms F with loans 4 and 5.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms F towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms F the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Fs borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Fs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms F as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman