DRN-1471788
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Mr B completed an 
application form for a Barclaycard, most likely in a Barclays branch, and the policy was 
added to his card at the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed. 
Mr B mainly says that he has no recollection of PPI being discussed or explained and its 
unlikely he would've wanted PPI. 
Hes asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I think Barclays made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I dont know what was discussed about the PPI, if anything. But the application form he 
completed had Yes and No PPI options. So Mr B wouldve known it was up to him to say if 
he wanted PPI. 
And I can see the Yes box is marked on the form Mr B signed. So, I think its likely he 
decided at the time that PPI would be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it wouldve advised Mr B to take out PPI if (as Mr B thinks likely) he applied for 
his Barclaycard at the bank. And, looking at the likely policy terms that wouldve applied, I 
think the policy was suitable for him. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy. It wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  and the 
policy wouldve also protected Mr Bs credit card repayments if he lost his job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. It doesn't look like Mr B had any other way of making the monthly repayments on his 
Barclaycard if he wasnt able to work. So I think PPI offered Mr B worthwhile benefits in his 
particular circumstances.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Bs situation. 
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now. The policy seems to 
have been affordable for him  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mr B has told us, including what 
hes said in response to our adjudicators view about PPI not showing on his Barclaycard 
statements. Its unsurprising that neither Barclays nor Mr B now has copies of those 
statements  I wouldnt expect the bank or Mr B to have kept statements dating back so long 
ago. And I think whats most likely is that PPI would have been itemised on those statements 
for the months when Mr B paid for PPI  but if he didn't incur any PPI premium that month 
(bearing in mind that the cost was worked out as a percentage of the outstanding card 
balance) then there wouldnt have been any PPI charge shown on the statement. That might 
help explain why it wasnt always obvious that hed taken out PPI just by looking at 
statements. 
And in any event, this doesn't affect my overall view because Im looking at what happened 
when he took out the PPI  and for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to be 
able to say that Barclays mis-sold PPI to Mr B. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman