DRN-2274618
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) not accepting the 
documents she provided as being sufficient for her to open an EU bank account with it.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms F applied for an EU account with RBS. It is not our role to decide what documents 
RBS includes as part of its verification process, but we can consider whether Ms F 
has been treated fairly in this process. 
RBS account opening information sets out that the applicants identity and address 
need to be verified. It provides a table showing the documents that are accepted for 
this. The information then explains how to certify the documents and the language 
that is required. Having looked through this information, I find that it is clear regarding 
what is required and it is reasonable that an account is only opened once this 
process has been completed. 
Ms F provided documents to support her application. But as these didnt meet RBS 
requirements I do not find that RBS did anything wrong by requesting further 
information before it would open an account.
I understand that Ms F has provided a notarised document to evidence her address 
and I note her comments about the options listed by RBS. However, as the document 
Ms F provided isnt one of the accepted documents as listed by RBS in its application 
information, I cannot say that RBS has acted unfairly by not accepting this and 
requesting further documentation.. 
I understand why Ms F has raised her complaint and her comments about the 
address documentation she has provided. I can see this has been a frustrating 
process for her. But as RBS has provided her with the information she needs to 
complete the verification process and has said that once this has happened 
successfully it will be able to open an account for her, I do not find I can say it has 
done anything wrong.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman