DRN-3038576
The complaint
The estate of Ms T has complained that St Andrew's Insurance Plc wrongly declined a claim 
made under Ms Ts mortgage protection plan for life cover.
The estate is represented by its administrator, Mr T.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary in 2002 Ms T took out a total mortgage protection plan. This 
provided three benefits: 
mortgage protect, which paid a monthly benefit in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment for an initial monthly premium of £35.53
life cover designed to pay a lump sum of £77,550 in the event of a death claim,
            for an initial monthly premium of £8.15
critical illness benefit designed to pay a lump sum in the event of a valid 
claim paying a lump sum of £77,550 for an initial monthly premium of £18.98
The plan schedule explains that the schedule must be read together with the plan booklet, 
the terms and conditions.
Section 14 of the terms and conditions states:
(a) If Life Cover is included, we will pay life cover benefit if you die before the end of the
term and if we have not accepted any other claim under the plan for life cover benefit or
critical illness benefit.
And section 15 states: 
 (d) Once we have paid critical illness benefit, no further claims for life cover benefit or critical
illness benefit will be accepted and all Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover under the plan 
will end.
In 2016 Ms T fell ill and following a successful claim under the mortgage protect element of 
the policy she claimed for critical illness. St Andrews paid the lump sum of £77,550 in late 
2018. It advised that the life and critical illness part of the plan was then cancelled.
Very sadly Ms T passed away in April 2019. When St Andrews advised that no further 
benefit was due under the policy Mr T, on behalf of Ms Ts estate complained.
Our investigator didnt find that St Andrews had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. Mr T appealed. He said that the policy clearly states life and critical 
The estate of Ms Tillness cover not life or critical illness. He said that Ms T would not have paid three separate 
premiums for a policy that would only generate two benefits.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that St Andrews has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I recognise that my 
decision will come as a great disappointment, and that the personal circumstances 
surrounding the claim are very tragic, but I dont find that St Andrews have acted 
unreasonably in declining the estates claim for death benefit. Ill explain why.
The original plan schedule issued in 2002 says that it is to be read together with the policy 
booklet. The terms, as set out above, are very clear. The revised plan schedule dated 4 
November 2008 also explained:
Life cover benefit will be paid during the term of the plan on the first death of any of the lives
accepted for life cover. All life cover (and any critical illness cover) under the plan will end
once a payment has been made.
Critical illness benefit will be payable when any of the lives covered for critical illness are
diagnosed as suffering from a named critical illness and survive for a period of 14 days from
the date of diagnosis. All critical illness cover (and any life cover) under the plan will end 
once a payment has been made.
Im satisfied that it was clear in the documentation that the plan will pay out on the diagnosis 
of a critical illness, or on death, but not both. Following the critical illness claim in 2018 when 
the full benefit was paid, life cover was cancelled and no further premiums were due. It 
follows that no life cover was in place when Ms T sadly died in 2019.
In these circumstances there is no basis on which I could require St Andrews to make any 
payment to Ms Ts estate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms T 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman