DRN-3781849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about fees that Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML) has 
added to their mortgage. They say they have been overcharged.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage in 2004, through a broker. They borrowed £124,000 
plus fees, on a capital and interest repayment basis over a term of 25 years. The interest 
rate was fixed at 7.49% until September 2005, and was then set to track the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin for the rest of the term.  
Mr and Mrs W have struggled to make their mortgage payments at times over the years and, 
in November 2020, they complained to SPML that they had paid too much in fees and 
charges.
SPML looked at the six-year period before Mr and Mrs W complained. It identified six arrears 
management fees which needed to be refunded, on the basis that Mr and Mrs W had made 
their full monthly mortgage payments in the relevant months. It refunded £375 to the 
mortgage. 
Our Investigators explained that they must apply relevant time limits, and this meant they 
could only look into the fees and charges applied to the mortgage since 18 November 2014 
 six years before Mr and Mrs W complained. 
An Investigator went on to consider that period of time, and noted that SPML had already 
refunded a number of fees. But she recommended that interest be added to the refund. She 
also said SPML should refund an arrears fee it had charged unfairly in September 2019, and 
add interest to that refund as well.
Mr and Mrs W accepted that conclusion, but SPML did not. It said it was justified in charging 
a fee in September 2019, because Mr and Mrs W hadnt made a full payment to the 
mortgage in that month. It asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I agree with the conclusions the Investigators reached about the period of time I 
can consider  that is, from 18 November 2014 onwards. Ive looked carefully at the fees 
applied to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage during the period I can consider.
Mortgage lenders are generally entitled to pass on to borrowers any costs they incur in 
managing a mortgage, including those resulting from a borrower falling into arrears. SPML 
set out its entitlement to do that in the mortgage terms it provided to Mr and Mrs W when 
they took out their mortgage, and in its tariff of charges which has been updated over the 
years. The fees Mr and Mrs W have been charged reflect those set out in the various tariffs.  
However, lenders must also treat their customers fairly. Here, SPML had already refunded a 
number of fees to Mr and Mrs W before we became involved. Our Investigator identified a 
£30 arrears fee applied in September 2019 which she thought should also be refunded. 
SPML pointed out that Mr and Mrs W didnt meet the full contractual monthly mortgage 
payment for that month. It says that justifies it having applied the fee. I disagree. At the time, 
for around a year Mr and Mrs W had consistently been making more than the contractual 
monthly payment to their mortgage every month. It was only in August 2019 that they paid 
£400 instead of the £800 they had been paying, against a contractual payment of just under 
£780.
Ive looked carefully at the records SPML has provided of its contact with Mr and Mrs W at 
around that time. Having done so, I find nothing to indicate that SPML carried out any 
additional work in connection with the payment shortfall for that particular month to justify 
charging a fee. So I think its difficult to see what additional costs it incurred in managing Mr 
and Mrs Ws mortgage as a result of the payment shortfall that month. In the circumstances, 
I share the Investigators view that SPML should fairly refund the resulting fee. It should 
backdate the refund in order that interest on the fee is also refunded or, if the mortgage has 
since been repaid, add simple interest at 8% to the refund as set out below.
SPML has charged some other fees in connection with Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage arrears 
that it hasnt since refunded. Those, however, were applied in months when no payment was 
made to the mortgage, no payment arrangement was in place, and SPML was in contact 
with or trying to contact Mr and Mrs W about the situation. I dont therefore consider that it 
should fairly refund those fees.
In terms of the refunds SPML has already applied to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage, I note it has 
paid interest on some, but not all, of the refunds. It says it hasnt paid interest on those 
because they were made as a gesture of goodwill. But, as our Investigator pointed out, Mr 
and Mrs W had paid more than their contractual monthly mortgage payment in the months 
when those fees were applied  and the arrears fees in question shouldnt have been 
charged in the first place. I find that interest should fairly be applied to those refunds as well.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited should:
1) Refund the £30 arrears fee applied in September 2019
2) If the mortgage is still in place, backdate the refund to the date the fee was applied in 
such a way that no interest is charged on the fee and reduce the mortgage balance 
accordingly
3) If the mortgage has been repaid, pay Mr and Mrs W interest at the mortgage rate 
compounded from the date the fee was applied to the date the mortgage was redeemed. 
This represents the financial loss incurred in repaying too high a mortgage balance. 
SPML should then pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the total of the fee plus 
mortgage interest from the date the mortgage was repaid to the date of settlement. This 
represents compensation for being out of pocket on the additional sums paid to redeem 
the mortgage 
4) Re-work or pay interest as set out at 2) or 3) above (as applicable) on the fee refunds it 
made as set out in its 16 January 2021 final response letter.
If SPML deducts income tax from the 8% interest element of my award (if 3) above applies), 
it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much it has taken off and give them a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so that they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman