DRN-2728905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society no longer provides documents that 
it used to send by post.
What happened
Mr S has explained that he and Mrs S have had a savings bond with Nationwide for many
years. Until recently, Nationwide would send an annual savings statement showing the
interest paid on the account and any tax deducted. He was able to use that statement to
provide information to the tax authorities.
From 2018, however, Nationwide stopped providing this service, except for existing fixed
rate accounts, which receive a statement until the account matures. Nationwide has 
replaced the savings statement with a Savings Watch service, which enables customers to 
see an annual statement of their interest rates, as well as information about new products.
Mr S queried the position with Nationwide. It acknowledged that it did not answer those
queries as well or as clearly as it could have done and offered compensation in recognition
of that, totalling £125. Mr and Mrs didnt think that went far enough and referred the matter to
this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not believe that Nationwide
had acted unfairly. She didnt believe it was unreasonable to replace the annual savings
summary with the Savings Watch facility. She thought that the compensation offered was
sufficient in respect of the information Mr S had received.
Mr and Mrs S did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. I did that and, whilst I broadly agreed with the investigators findings, issued a 
provisional decision  because my reasons were slightly different. In summary, I said:
I did not agree that Mr and Mrs Ss savings bond remained open on maturity. The 
account number remained unchanged, but the investment term had come to an end. 
It was for Nationwide to decide whether to continue to provide the annual savings 
statement in the form it had in the past. 
I noted that, since 2016, banks and building societies have not generally deducted tax 
from savings interest. It is for the customer to tell the tax authorities how much they 
have received in interest and to pay any tax due. 
I noted too that Nationwide is required to provide statements of account, but was 
satisfied that it is doing that by providing online access.  
In conclusion, whilst I noted that Mr and Mrs S find the current arrangements less convenient 
than those were used to but didnt think that Nationwide had treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs S did not respond to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to this complaint has added anything since I issued my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change my proposed outcome or my reasons for reaching it.  
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs 
Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman