DRN-2942388
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc has unfairly used his benefit payments to repay his 
overdraft.
What happened
Mr S says his only income is that of benefits and that TSB forced him into an agreement 
where £20 was deducted from his account every month. He says that was illegal and TSB 
was not entitled to do so. Mr S also complains about how a telephone call was dealt with and 
would like his money refunded as well as compensation.
TSB says it agreed a temporary overdraft facility of £100 with Mr S in 2020. It says it agreed 
it would deduct £20 a month to reduce the facility over six months and that Mr S still had 
access to his benefits. TSB says it wrote to tell him the facility would be removed in October 
2020. It says it then agreed a further temporary six-month overdraft facility with Mr S and 
that £20 a month would be deducted from his account to reduce the facility. It also says it 
refunded charges to try and assist Mr S.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr S had agreed to the two agreements and that TSB tried to help him. 
The investigator thought in any event Mr S had other credits to his account and couldnt fairly 
comment on the telephone call as there wasnt an available recording.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says TSB has broken First Right of Appropriation rules. 
He also says he told TSB that it should not be taking his benefits and that the credits to his 
account were still benefits payments paid back into his account. Mr S says he had the right 
to break any agreement with TSB in these circumstances.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at TSBs records and I am satisfied that it tried to help Mr S by 
agreeing two interest free overdraft facilities. I am also satisfied that Mr S agreed to the 
arrangements which were for 6 months each reducing by £20 a month. And I can see that 
TSB fairly told Mr S that the agreements were coming to an end and what that would mean. 
Im satisfied that TSB fairly agreed to refund charges which would also have helped Mr Ss 
position.
The key part of this complaint is that Mr S says TSB has broken the law and hasnt followed 
First Right of Appropriation rules where a persons income is made up of benefits. I make 
clear to Mr S that we are not a court and so its not our role to conclude an activity is illegal. I 
am satisfied that Mr S agreed to both arrangements and have made clear that I think that the 
agreements were designed to help Mr S and its difficult to see what else TSB could have 
done or what Mr S says TSB ought to have done to help him.
Im satisfied that the Appropriation rules say that Mr S ought to have written to TSB setting 
out which payments out of his account he wished to be protected before any deduction was 
made. For example, a rent payment. But I have not seen any evidence on TSBs records or 
from Mr S that he ever followed the rules by writing to TSB about this issue. So, I dont think 
TSB has acted unfairly by deducting what I think was a relatively small amount every month 
with a view to preventing further unauthorised overdraft charges.
I can see additional credits into Mr Ss account that on the face of it do not appear to be 
benefits. I appreciate Mr S says they were payments paid back into his account. I dont think 
it clear why that took place but, in any event, I have made clear that I think TSB was entitled 
to deduct the £20 as it was agreed. I cant fairly comment on the telephone call complaint as 
it is not available to listen to and have made clear overall, I think TSB tried to help Mr S.
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint and so cant fairly order TSB pay compensation or 
refund an overdraft facility amount when Mr S clearly owed it that amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman