DRN-3145637
The complaint
Mr M complains that Skrill Limited blocked and closed his account. And havent released 
money held in the account back to him. 
What happened
Mr M had a Skrill account which he opened whilst he lived in Georgia.
In May 2020, Skrill reviewed Mr Ms account. As part of the review Skrill asked Mr M to 
provide proof of his address. Whilst it completed the review Skrill restricted Mr Ms account 
which meant he wasnt able to access the funds in his account. At the time Mr Ms balance 
was just under $3,000 USD.
Mr M sent Skrill certified copies of title deeds for his property in Georgia dated 2018 as proof 
of his address. However, Mr M said he wasnt living in Georgia at the time of the account 
review as he had to leave Georgia due to the pandemic. Mr M said hed moved to Iran, 
which is a country subject to sanctions. Skrill reviewed Mr Ms paperwork but didnt think it 
was sufficient as Mr M wasnt residing in Georgia. 
Following its review, in July 2020 Skrill decided to close Mr Ms account and wrote to Mr M 
asking him for details of a bank account so that it could release his balance to him. Skrill told 
Mr M that in order to comply with its regulatory obligations it was only able to return the 
balance to an account Mr M held in Georgia. And that it wasnt able to transfer money to Iran 
due to sanctions. 
Mr M told Skrill that he didnt have a Georgian bank account and wasnt able to open one 
due to migration issues impacting him. Due to the difficulties with transferring money into 
Iran, Mr M asked Skrill to release his balance to a relatives account. Skrill said it wasnt able 
to do this. And said it was only able to release the balance to a Georgian account in Mr Ms 
name, which was where Mr M had opened his account. Mr M said this wasnt fair. He 
pointed out that hed complied with all of Skrills information requests during its review and 
said Skrill didnt have the right to choose how his closing balance should be withdrawn. And 
that he should be allowed to nominate his fathers account to receive his funds.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators said she didnt think Skrill 
had done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ms account. And based on all the 
evidence, she didnt think it was unreasonable Skrill were only willing to return the money to 
an account held by Mr M in Georgia. Mr M disagreed. He said according to the terms of his 
account at the time he should be allowed to use his fathers account to receive his balance. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr M has made detailed submissions and also sought answers to his 
questions about why Skrill blocked and closed his account. Like the investigator, Ive 
considered all of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point 
that Mr M has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im 
required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be 
the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr M and Skrill 
have said before reaching my decision.
As the investigator explained Skrill has important legal and regulatory obligations it must 
meet when providing accounts to customers. To comply with these obligations Skrill is 
entitled to restrict an account and ask a customer to provide information. about how they use 
their account, personal information, and payments which are made into an account. And its 
not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. The terms of Mr Ms account also 
permit Skrill to review an account and ask its customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Skrill to block Mr Ms account. Skrill has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Skrill were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr M inconvenience 
when it blocked his account and he had to go to the trouble of collating and providing 
information to Skrill about his address, I cant say the bank has treated him unfairly. 
I understand that Mr M wants Skrill to explain the reason it applied the block to his account in 
the first place. But Skrill doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr M the reasons behind the account review 
and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving him this information. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Skrill has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail with Mr M, but 
Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is that he wants Skrill to release his closing balance to his 
fathers account. I appreciate Skrills unwillingness to do so and Mr Ms lack of a Georgian 
based account leaves Mr M in a difficult position and without his funds, but Ive weighed this 
against the evidence and information available to me. And based on everything Ive seen, 
including Mr Ms representations about the terms and conditions of the account, Im satisfied 
it was reasonable for Skrill to decline Mr Ms request to send the closing balance to his 
fathers account. And that it did so in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations.
In addition to this, it would only be appropriate to transfer the money to an account in Mr M's 
name. I say that because it's Mr M who is entitled to the money - not his father. Skrill would 
also have no way to verify Mr M's father, because he's not their customer. And it's Skrill's 
duty to ensure their customer's money is protected. So, I can't reasonably ask them to 
consider sending the money to an unauthorised individual.
In summary, having looked at the full circumstances of the complaint, I find that Skrill have 
been reasonable and appropriate in their actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman