DRN-2015597
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was unfortunately hit while parked by a driver who failed to stop. Mr W made a 
claim to his insurer, esure. It dealt with the claim but Mr W complained that esure had 
recorded the claim as a fault claim, charged him the excess and failed to provide him with a 
like for like courtesy car while his car was being repaired. Mr W was unhappy about the 
impact on his premiums in future as a result of the claim.
esure didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it had correctly recorded the claim as it couldnt 
recover its costs from a third party. And it had provided a courtesy car in line with the policy 
terms. 
Mr W asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought esure had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he was the victim of a crime which has had a financial impact on 
him. He feels esure has discriminated against him by treating the claim as a fault claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ws upset at the claim being recorded as a fault claim. This is the 
terminology insurers use for claims where it isnt possible for them to recover their costs from 
a third party. As the driver who caused the damage to Mr Ws car wasnt identified, esure 
isnt able to look to recover the costs of the claim from a third party insurer. We cant tell 
insurers what phrases they should use. But essentially claims are recorded by insurers as 
either recovered costs (non-fault), part recovered costs, or no recovery of costs (fault). So 
even if the incident wasnt a customers fault, the claim will be recorded as such for any 
customer in the same circumstances as Mr Ws. So for this reason, I dont agree that esure 
has discriminated against Mr W for recording the claim in this way. 
Insurers use a variety of information about a customers claims history to determine the price 
they set to provide cover. We cannot interfere with this as this is their commercial decision to 
decide what risk they wish to underwrite and the price of the risk. This can vary between 
insurers. But we know that insurers will consider a clear claims history a lower risk and their 
pricing reflects that. 
When any claim is made, the excess under the policy is always due. Some insurers can 
decide to waive the excess where it is clear from the outset that the claim will be settled as a 
non-fault claim: For example if a third party accepts liability from the beginning. So in this 
case I dont think esure acted unreasonably in requesting the excess due under the policy as 
Mr W had made a claim. 
Mr Ws policy with esure says that while his car is being repaired, it will provide him with a 
courtesy car for the duration of the repairs. The policy says:
The courtesy car will be a small car, such as a Ford Ka or Toyota Aygo, which will 
automatically be insured on your policy at no cost. Normal policy terms and 
conditions apply.
So I dont think esure did anything wrong by not providing Mr W with a similar car to his, 
which was an electric car. This isnt an unusual term in motor insurance policies as the 
replacement car is a benefit available for a short period of time while a customers car is 
being repaired.
I appreciate that Mr W is disappointed with the way esure dealt with his claim. And I 
understand his upset at having a claim recorded against him showing no recovery of costs 
was made. But the circumstances of the incident meant that recovery of the costs from a 
third party wasnt possible for esure. So I think esure treated Mr W fairly and as it would any 
other customer in the same position. I think it dealt with his claim reasonably and in line with 
the policy. So this means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman