DRN-2838827
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Bank of Scotland says that Mr M also took out a different PPI policy in 2002 to cover the 
same mortgage. Mr M says he doesnt know anything about that policy and doesnt 
remember taking it. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint, including Mr Ms email sent in June 2021. 
Mr M says he has no memory of taking a different PPI policy in 2002, and says Bank of 
Scotland has failed to explain this. Because this all happened so many years ago, there are 
very limited records. But I can see from computer screenshots that there is a record of a PPI 
policy in 1994 and a different one starting in March 2002. Each one covered the same 
mortgage. It looks likely that the 2002 policy was a replacement of the previously running 
one that started in 1994. Theres no record of the reason for the change in the policy. 
Mr M says that, when applying for his mortgage in 1994, as far as I can recall PPI was 
never explained an no options were given  it was all part o fth application process to get 
accepted. Mr M says he just went along with what the adviser told him. 
If it wasnt made clear to Mr M that he had a choice about taking the PPI, this would have 
been a mis-sale. However, the overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point. It wouldnt be fair to make Bank of Scotland prove it 
didnt do something wrong  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it 
probably did do something wrong. And, given how long ago this all happened, its not 
surprising that none of the original paperwork is available. I do though think its likely the PPI 
would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it would have been 
presented as a choice. 
And I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about 19 and 27 
years ago.  So it can be hard to know how much weight I can put on what they do now recall. 
So, in summary, I dont have enough evidence to fairly say Bank of Scotland mis-sold the 
PPI in the way Mr M believes. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr M, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Ms 
particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr M was eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr M would 
need to fall back on any other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mr M in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
And Mr M could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr M would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and that a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr M to decide whether he wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Mr M says he wasnt given alternative options. But I dont see strong evidence that Bank of 
Scotland had a duty to tell Mr M about other products available on the market. In the 
circumstances of this sale, it just had to make sure that the product it was recommending 
was suitable for Mr M. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr M took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman