DRN-1136606
 
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that he struggled to gain full access to his credit report through Experian 
Limited. Hes also disappointed with the time it took for Experian to address his concerns.
What happened
Mr F thinks he provided Experian with appropriate identification documents in order to be 
able to sign up and gain full access to his credit report.
Experian disagree. They say Mr F originally applied for a free Experian account, which 
wouldnt have given him access to his full credit report in any event. Experian say Mr F failed 
the authentication checks which is why he couldnt sign up online. They then claim Mr F 
applied for a statutory credit report. Experian advise that they sent Mr F an email around 7 
May 2019 explaining that they needed specific documents to authenticate his details in order 
to provide him with a copy of this report. Experian say the documents Mr F provided didnt 
meet the requirements. So they contacted him again around 11 June 2019. Experian say 
upon Mr F then providing the relevant documents, his statutory credit report was sent out 
around 21 June 2019.  
As Experian didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint, the matter was referred to our service. 
An investigator has already looked at this case. Overall he felt Experian had acted fairly and 
reasonably. So he didnt think that Experian needed to do anything further. As Mr F remains 
unhappy, this matter has now been passed to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Experian puts in place security requirements to reduce the risk of things like identity 
fraud potentially occurring. Mr F wasnt able to provide the documentation they needed in 
order for him to sign up online. Experian seem to have followed their internal guidelines and 
overall I dont think theyve behaved unreasonably. And its not for me to comment on these 
specific guidelines. As has already been explained, the free Experian account service 
wouldnt have provided Mr F with access to his full credit report.
Experian seem to have made it very clear to Mr F that the documents he sent werent 
acceptable and they then proceeded to tell him what he needed to send in. I think it only fair 
that Mr F adhere to the guidelines Experian sets. This means sending Experian the relevant 
documentation which they say supports an application for a credit report.
Overall Im satisfied that the timescales in which Experian handled this complaint were 
reasonable. I cant see anything to suggest Experian hasnt handled this case fairly. So I 
wont be asking them to do anything else.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Robyn McNamee
Ombudsman