DRN-3908531
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took too long to deal with a 
duplicated payment from his account.
What happened
Mr H holds an account with Barclays. In April 2022, he telephoned the bank as he had 
noticed what appeared to be a duplicated payment from his account. He called through the 
complaint line, and he was transferred between staff members until the third person he 
spoke to was able to assist. The unexpected payment was cancelled, and the money was 
returned to his account. He says that this took around 90 minutes, which caused him a great 
deal of stress due to his particular circumstances. 
Barclays agrees that it provided a poor level of customer service. It could have identified and 
addressed his issue sooner, rather than having such a long telephone call. It has apologised, 
and it offered to pay Mr H £75 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought that Barclays should have dealt with Mr Hs query more efficiently. 
They thought that the level of distress and inconvenience caused by this delay warranted a 
higher payment, of £100.
Barclays agreed to this, but Mr H did not, so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of this service, I can consider complaints where the customer has put them 
to the business for a response, and a response has been provided or else the business has 
not responded in good time. Here, Mr H has a number of complaints about the way that 
Barclays have treated him, but I can only make a decision based upon the specific elements 
of complaint which are before me under the rules. I have summarised these in the facts 
above. Mr H has made reference to additional elements in a letter sent to this service, but I 
hope that I have explained which parts of his complaint I can deal with at this stage. In 
particular, I note that complaints handling, which is not a regulated activity, is not something 
which I can consider. No part of this decision is intended to decide or impact any other 
complaints which Mr H might have made or might choose to make.
The parties agree that the service Mr H received over the telephone was unreasonable. I 
think that is fair. While delays in calls might be expected, Mr Hs call was not transferred to 
the appropriate department quickly enough, but was passed around. Given the fact that he 
was concerned about an unauthorised payment, I can understand that this would have been 
a stressful time, and the bank made it longer than it ought to have been. 
Putting things right
I have considered what Mr H has to say about his personal circumstances, and I am 
satisfied that the distress and inconvenience caused by the banks delays on the telephone 
call is properly reflected by a payment of £100.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Barclays Bank UK PLC shall pay Mr H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman