DRN-1896556
The complaint
 Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2016, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF. The agreement was for £8,250 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £220.  
At the time of supply the car was just over 5 years old and had done 50,000 miles. The car 
was supplied with a warranty.
Miss S says she kept suffering mechanical issues with the car, within the first six months of 
purchase. She says she took it back to the dealership for repair on multiple occasions. She 
complained about this to SMF, asking to reject the car. But she says SMF didnt deal with 
her complaints. 
Miss S paid off the remaining finance (around £5,000) in July 2019 and raised another 
complaint with SMF about the quality of the car. But SMF said they couldnt investigate this, 
because the agreement had been repaid. So Miss S brought her complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Miss S had problems with her car, and shed complained to SMF about 
this, asking to reject the car. And he was satisfied that SMF hadnt dealt with any of her 
complaints. 
Based on the evidence hed seen, the investigator said that SMF needed to do something to 
put things right. Because Miss S no longer had the car, he recommended that SMF refund 
her 10% of the final settlement amount to Miss S, plus interest, to compensate her for the 
loss of time and value she suffered having to keep a car despite it not being of a satisfactory 
quality. He also said that SMF should pay Miss S an additional £100 to compensate her for 
having to take her car to the garage several times and being without it while it was there.
SMF didnt agree with the investigator. They said that, on each occasion Miss S made them 
aware of an issue with her car, she took her own actions to resolve them. They said they 
never refused to assist her, but they werent given the opportunity to do so. And they think 
that all of the repairs Miss S had done to fix the faults with the car were unauthorised. 
Because SMF didnt agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, SMF are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when 
Miss S took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair 
and reasonable to ask SMF to put this right.
When Miss S took possession of the car, it was just over 5 years old and had done 50,000 
miles. Shes provided evidence that she took the car in for repair on 10 October 2016, due to 
a loss of power two days earlier. This was diagnosed as a turbo and actuator fault. These 
parts were replaced, and Miss M received her car back on 8 November 2016. This was done 
under warranty, and Miss S wasnt charged for the work.
The car suffered another loss of power in January 2017 and had to go back in for repair. 
There was an actuator fault (the same issue that was repaired in October 2016), and this 
needed replacing, as did the manifold and sensors. An actuator is not a part that anyone 
would reasonably expect to only last a few months. So, based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied there was most likely an underlying issue with the car that was causing these 
problems. And this issue hadnt been fixed when the dealership initially repaired the car.
Ive seen that, between November 2016 and February 2017, Miss S contacted SMF on 
multiple occasions about the problems with her car.
On 9 November 2016 she told them shed collected her car from the garage, after a new 
turbo was fitted. She said the garage had the car for four and a half weeks and had 
damaged the interior. And she sent SMF photographs of this damage. She followed this up 
with an email the following day explaining how she no longer felt safe driving the car, and 
that it was going to cost her to have the car valeted to clean up the mess the garage left. 
SMF told her they would investigate this and get back to her. But they didnt.
On 24 December 2016 Miss S complained to SMF that the engine management light had 
come on again. She said that the car had spent seven weeks in the garage since she took 
possession of it in August 2016 and that she didnt think it was fit for purpose. SMF replied to 
this saying theyd investigate, but I havent any evidence that seen they did. On 7 January 
2017 Miss S told SMF that her car was booked to go back into the garage for the engine 
management light issue to be looked at. And on 12 January 2017 she said the garage had 
agreed to fix it. So SMF took no further action.
On 8 February 2017 Miss S again complained to SMF that her car wasnt fit for purpose, and 
that shed been emailing SMF about this for five months. And she told them she wanted to 
reject the car. In response SMF told her theyd investigate and look to provide you with a 
suitable resolution. But Ive seen nothing to show me that SMF took any actions following 
this email.Its clear from these emails that Miss S had issues with her car, and that these issues 
became apparent within the first six months. What I wouldve expected SMF to do would be 
to have the car independently inspected to identify what faults were actually present. And 
whether those faults were present and developing when the car was supplied.
But SMF didnt do this. So, given that theres no evidence to the contrary, under the terms 
implied by the CRA its reasonable for me to conclude that the faults were present or 
developing at the point the car was supplied to Miss S. And, as the supplier of goods, SMF 
are responsible. This means that SMF wouldve had a single chance to repair these faults. 
And if they couldnt, Miss S would have the right to reject the car. 
When Miss S raised her complaints with SMF, they told her theyd investigate. What they 
meant by this was that theyd forward her emails to the company who arranged the finance 
on their behalf, and then tell Miss S what they said. I dont think this was an acceptable way 
to deal with the issues raised, and SMF took no responsibility to try and resolve the issue. 
Because of this, I think its reasonable that Miss S took matters into her own hands and 
arranged for the dealership to do the repairs herself. And the dealership didnt repair the car 
at the first attempt. Which meant that Miss S had the right to reject the car. But when Miss S 
asked to be able to reject the car, SMF ignored this request.
Given all of the circumstances described above, Im satisfied that Miss S should be able to 
reject the car. However, given the time thats passed since Miss S first raised the issues with 
SMF, she kept and used the car. And then in July 2019, she repaid the finance and disposed 
of the car herself. So saying that SMF should take car back is no longer possible and saying 
they should unwind the whole agreement isnt fair and reasonable.
Despite the issues shed experienced, Miss S had use of the car from August 2017 to July 
2019. But this usage was impaired because of the faults on the car, and the time it spent in 
the garage. The investigator recommended SMF should refund Miss S a proportion of the 
final settlement figure, plus interest, to compensate her for the impaired usage, plus £100 to 
compensate her for when she didnt have use of the car while it was in for repair. And Miss S 
agreed to this recommendation. I think the recommendation was fair and, because of this, I 
see no compelling reason to alter this.
Putting things right
SMF should:
refund Miss S 10% of the final settlement figure she paid in July 2019, plus 8% 
simple interest a year from the date of payment to the date of refund. This is to 
compensate her for the impaired usage she suffered while she had the car.
Pay Miss S an additional £100. This is to compensate her for the inconvenience she 
suffered while her car was in for repair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ss complaint. Startline Motor Finance 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman