DRN-2759091
The complaint
Mrs H feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to some 
cosmetic goods and services she purchased from a salon using a finance agreement.
  
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs H entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and cosmetic services. 
These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit provided by 
Etika. This credit was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total repayable amount of £1800 to 
be repaid over twenty-five monthly repayments. She signed the agreement electronically and 
paid an additional £200 as a deposit.
Mrs H says that she attended the salon on occasions in 2018 for treatments and received 
goods and a device. She then went through a period of struggling to get appointments for 
convenient times. So she tried to talk to the salon and then found out that the salon had 
closed. So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged there had been a breach of contract 
offered her a financial settlement. Mrs H felt she should pay nothing further. So she 
complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that Etika could ask Mrs H to pay a significant reduced amount bearing 
in mind the goods and services that she has received. Originally Mrs H accepted our 
investigators position. But now Mrs H doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Originally Mrs H accepted the view of the investigator and Etika relied on this. Mrs H has 
now said she didnt and doesnt understand the situation. As such and considering what has 
happened and considering that Etika says she has an outstanding balance, I think it is in the 
interests of all parties to bring finality to this matter by issuing this binding decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs H raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However it 
must be remembered that although this legislation places some obligations on Etika, it is a 
different entity to the salon. And my decision here is whether or not Etika has treated Mrs H 
fairly in relation to those obligations and duties Etika must adhere to. It is not a decision 
about what the salon did or didnt do. I should imagine this key issue is clear.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs H has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim against the 
credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika says Mrs H should 
receive a significant reduction in what she owes in light of the acknowledged breach of 
contract.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. 
Bearing in mind Etika has acknowledged that the entire course of treatments hasnt been 
provided and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter 
should be resolved fairly between the parties. And it must be remembered that although Mrs 
H has paid a deposit and made monthly payments towards the loan she took she hasnt paid 
for everything she has received.
Ive considered the invoice from the salon dated June 2018. I can see its personalised with 
Mrs Hs name and details. I can see it sets out that the agreement is for twelve treatments, 
two products and a device for a total price of £2000. It also notes that £200 has been paid 
direct by Mrs H and that £1800 is being paid for through the finance (provided by the firm 
now known as Etika). 
Mrs H has described what she received from the salon but then the salon ceased trading 
before she could complete the course of treatments. So I think Etikas approach of accepting 
that there has been a breach of contract and offering a settlement is fair.
It is clear that finding a fair way to consider the costs of items, treatments and devices is 
made difficult by the salons use of discounts and inconsistencies in its costings. Accordingly 
it is important that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and impartial but 
also that it applies a consistent approach. In this instance the Investigator has chosen to see 
the contract as being for fifteen items (as Ive described) and to treat them equally. I consider 
this to be fair. Furthermore I think it fair that Mrs H pays for the goods and services she did 
receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
The total price was £2,000 (including the deposit Mrs H paid). This divided by the fifteen 
equal parts of the contract means the value of each element is £133.33. Mrs H has 
confirmed what she did and didnt receive and Ive no persuasive reason to doubt her 
comments on this. I therefore feel Mrs H should receive a price reduction of £799.98 (6 x 
£133.33). The total price was £2,000 and this therefore means the total amount Mrs H is 
liable for on this agreement is £1,200.02. Mrs H paid up front £200 deposit and made a 
number of payments toward the loan repayment. So I think those amounts should be 
removed from the total amount Mrs H is liable for, leaving her with what her outstanding 
balance is. And this amount is what Etika can ask her to pay.
She says Etika didnt do enough with regard to the salon and should have known it was a 
scam. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that this salon was a scam. After all 
it is clear that goods and services were provided over a period of time by the salon. 
In the past Mrs H has said she never entered into any agreement. But she also has talked 
about paying a deposit and paying a monthly amount. These amounts tie up with the 
evidence in the agreement Etika has provided this service. She also provided significant 
details about herself which are evidenced on the fixed sum loan agreement. She also 
provided her bank details and direct debits paid on a monthly basis. Considering all the 
evidence available Im satisfied she entered this agreement fairly.In short, Ive considered everything that Mrs H has said. I appreciate how Mrs H feels about 
the whole situation. I think the price reduction Ive described is fair and I see Etika has put it 
in place. So Etika can ask Mrs H to repay the outstanding amount as Ive described above. 
  
Putting things right
Etika has already put the matter right as Ive described above so it doesnt need to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Etika 
Finance UK Limited. As it has put matters right already it doesnt need to do anything more. 
And it is entitled to ask Mrs H to pay what her outstanding balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman