DRN-3904942
The complaint
Mr O complains that, as a tenant under a block policy provided by Covea Insurance plc, it 
poorly handled a claim for water damage to his flat, and has failed to pay the cost of 
alternative accommodation (AA). Although the claim was handled by loss adjusters or a 
claim handling service, I shall for convenience refer to Covea throughout.
What happened
This case involves a claim for water damage that first started in October 2020. Mr O made 
previous complaints about the matter in November 2021 and March 2022. Those complaints 
were reviewed by Covea as a result of which Mr O was offered compensation of £1,000. His 
complaints were considered by one of our Investigators, who said that Coveas offer of 
£1,000 was reasonable. Mr O didnt ask for that to be referred to an Ombudsman.
Mr Os further complaints relate to further problems with the contractors employed to carry 
out the work, that they hadnt dealt with a number of outstanding issues and felt forced to 
employ his own contractor. He also said that, having stayed in AA in September/October 
2021 he had to stay for two further periods, in March and May 2022. The first period was a 
private let, for the second period he stayed with a friend.
Covea agreed that the service had been poor  however it said that as the contractors were 
employed under the block policy, it didnt have control over what happened. But it offered a 
further £250 compensation for the additional stress caused by the service from the claims 
team in addressing queries and providing updates.
Our Investigator initially said that Covea should increase its compensation payment to £350 
and that it should pay a disturbance allowance for the period Mr O was in AA. 
Covea agreed to the increased compensation, but pointed out that for previous periods of 
AA, Mr O had been paid a lump sum but had spent two weeks sleeping on the floor of his 
flat. As a result he hadnt had to spend over £3,800 of the lump sum on AA, which it felt 
should be taken into account.
Our Investigator accepted what Covea had to say and said it didnt need to pay any further 
disturbance allowance.
Mr O didnt agree. He said:
The previous AA money was part of the settlement.
Covea had already used the payment of that money in its defence of his previous 
complaint.
The amount is less than a disturbance allowance should be so he should receive that 
amount.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint is in respect of a continuing matter I should clarify that I am only 
considering matters which occurred after Coveas previous final response letter of 15 March 
2022, up until Coveas next final response letter of 7 June 2022. In respect of his previous 
complaint, although I understand that Mr O hasnt yet accepted the £1,000 compensation 
payment previously proposed, our investigator has issued a view which Mr O didnt require 
to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So I regard that matter as closed.
I do think that Covea was responsible for any delays and poor service by the contractors as 
it is the underwriter of the block policy, which I understand for Mr O covered both buildings 
and contents. In particular I understand that contractors were sent who Mr O had specifically 
requested not to return. As a result I understand that he is organising the further repairs 
himself. For the period which I am concerned with, I think the proposed compensation 
payment of £350 is fair and reasonable.
Turning to the AA, there are two periods in this timeframe during which Mr O was out of the 
property, from 14 to 20 March and from 22 to 31 May 2022. For the first period he says he 
stayed in a local private let, and for the second period, with a friend. 
When we consider payments for AA, we look at what actually happened rather than what 
could or should have happened. So it wouldnt be appropriate to award the cost of a hotel 
when Mr O didnt actually stay in one.
Mr O was paid a lump sum in September 2021 to cover the cost of 12 weeks AA in a flat. 
Mr O didnt use all of that money for rent/hotel costs. Because he stayed in his flat for two 
weeks, he had just over £3,800 left of that lump sum. Mr O says he was forced to do so, but 
I note that he had spent some of the lump sum on a hotel and he could have chosen to stay 
in a hotel for those two weeks.
Mr O says he regards that matter as being settled. But I dont think, when its part of the 
same claim that that can be the case. If the claim had closed after that without him needing 
further AA, in Mr Os particular circumstances, I wouldnt have expected Covea to ask for it 
back.
However as further AA was required, I think it was reasonable that the money be put 
towards further AA. On the assumption that Mr O was not paid separately for the AA in 
March 2022, the outstanding sum was ample to cover those six days, even at four star hotel 
prices. For the nine days in May when he stayed with a friend, it would be appropriate to pay 
a disturbance allowance. This is a nominal figure, paid without the need for receipts, to cover 
the increased cost of someone being unable to use basic facilities at their home like cooking 
or washing. Often that nominal figure is £10 a day and Covea has said it wouldnt pay more 
than £20 a day, a total of £180 which I think is reasonable.  As Ive said it reflects the reality 
of the situation, rather than what could have been paid if Mr O had stayed in rented AA or a 
hotel.
Mr O has pointed out that he incurred expenses of mainly takeaway food of over £750 in late 
2021, because he slept on the floor of his flat. Even deducting that cost from the figure he 
had retained from the lump sum AA payment, Mr O still had sufficient to pay for further AA or 
to cover a disturbance allowance. And it is worth noting that Mr O would always have had some food costs during that time anyway. So it likely isnt fair to say that £750 extra was 
spent by Mr O on food during this period.
On Mr Os point that this issue was brought up by Covea in its defence of his previous 
complaint, I cant see that the retained sum has previously been deducted.
So I think that Coveas position concerning the cost of AA was reasonable.
Putting things right
Covea should pay £350 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman