DRN-4042354
The complaint
Mr R complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him when 
it shouldnt have. Mr R says he had a high level of debt and proper checks would have 
shown Everyday Loans he couldnt take on anymore credit.
What happened
Mr R was lent a total of three loans between January 2019 and November 2019. The 
information provided shows the loans are as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount Term Repayment End date
1 30/01/2019 £1,499.05 18 months £177.61 11/07/2019
2 11/07/2019 £3,000 30 months £280.52 30/11/2019
3 30/11/2019 £5,000 36 months £316.05 15/10/2021
When Mr R complained to Everyday Loans, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said it carried 
out sufficient checks and those checks showed Mr R could afford the loans when it lent. 
Unhappy with Everyday Loans response, Mr R referred his complaint to this service where it 
was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought Everyday Loans did enough before agreeing to lend Mr R any of the 
loans. She didnt recommend that any part of Mr Rs complaint be upheld as she thought the 
checks didnt show that Mr R would struggle to repay the loans.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said had 
Everyday Loans carried out proper checks it would have seen he had many credit accounts 
and was in persistent debt. And so, it shouldnt have lent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered. And Id like to assure Mr R that if I dont mention a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I 
believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint.
Everyday Loans is aware of the regulators rules and guidance about lending to consumers, 
so I dont intend to fully repeat them here. Essentially, before lending money to a consumer, 
a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer could repay 
without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending any of the loans, it 
searched Mr Rs credit file, asked for his monthly income and housing expenses. It said it 
used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to work out Mr Rs monthly living 
costs. I can see it worked Mr Rs living costs as £771, for all loans.
Everyday Loans also verified the information Mr R provided by requesting bank statements 
and payslips. When Mr R was lent loan 1, he was borrowing to consolidate the debt on three 
of his credit accounts and loans 2 and 3 were for a house move and purchase of white 
goods and furniture respectively.
Having considered all the information, I think Everyday Loans checks went far enough. I say 
this because it didnt only rely on the information Mr R provided but it took steps to verify this 
information and get a better understanding of Mr Rs financial circumstances before lending. 
I think that level of check was necessary given the loan amounts and terms. 
The results of the checks showed Mr R had a steady income of over £3,000. I can also see 
that Mr R had another source of income from temporary work which he did (I note Everyday 
Loans hasnt relied on this income due to its temporary nature).
Both Mr Rs bank statements and credit file showed he had a number of credit accounts, but 
they were all well managed and I cant see there were any signs he was struggling to repay 
them. From what I can see, his credit commitments were the highest at the time of loan 1 
over £1,300 and by loans 2 and 3 they had reduced to under £1,000. Mr Rs bank 
statements also show he had savings which put him in a good position to repay the loans 
over their respective terms.
Overall, the checks showed Mr R had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
repayments, and although he had a number of credit accounts, he was manging these 
reasonably well. I dont think Everyday Loans should have declined to lend on that basis.
Given what Everyday Loans knew about Mr R, I dont think it was unreasonable to lend any 
of the loans and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. Everyday Loans hasnt done 
anything wrong by lending loans 1  3.
I appreciate my findings will disappoint Mr R but I hope my explanation provides him an 
assurance that Ive fully considered his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint or make any awards against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman