DRN-3730965
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax held him responsible for
transactions that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr K explained that he noticed unusual activity on his account that had occurred about a
week earlier. There were two outgoing payments and one incoming payment that he didnt
recognise. Mr K stated that he didnt authorise the outgoing payments and knew nothing
about the incoming payment.
Mr K notified Halifax about the activity on his account and sought a refund. Mr K confirmed
that he hadnt given his security details to anyone else. Halifax looked into what had
happened and declined to refund the transactions, believing that Mr K had authorised them
after registering a new device (mobile phone) some weeks earlier.
Mr K complained to Halifax who again looked into the situation but didnt change their
position. Mr K remained unhappy with how Halifax had dealt with his loss and brought his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about
the complaint. Mr K explained how hed been the subject of suspicious activity on other
online accounts and supplied evidence of items that had been ordered on an online platform
that he believed were fraudulent. Mr K thought that his account had been hacked to take
his money.
Halifax provided details of how the payments were made and referred to an additional device
(mobile phone) that had been authorised on the account some weeks prior to the disputed
transactions taking place.
Halifax provided details of how the new device was registered using Mr Ks password, and
evidence of a security message that was sent to his phone. Shortly after this a new phone
number was recorded on the account and it was this new device which was used to set up
and make the disputed transactions.
After reviewing the evidence our investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Mr
K liable for the transactions and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr K disagreed with the
investigators outcome and questioned references made about a security call to Mr Ks
mobile. Mr K stated that he hadnt changed his device and the new phone number didnt
belong to him.
Mr K asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much has been made about whether a security call was made to Mr Ks mobile - he denies
ever receiving such a call or making a call to the bank. Having reviewed the evidence, I
asked Halifax for further detail about the sequence of events which led to the setting up of a
new device on Mr Ks account.
It's apparent from the detail provided that Halifaxs security system sent a message to Mr Ks
registered mobile phone and received a positive response from it. There was no call to his
phone from a person or a call made to Halifax at this time from Mr Ks phone. The security
message is part of the system used to check that the user of the device is authorised to
make changes to the account  which is what happened here.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mr K liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr K authorised the
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the internet banking application
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Ks account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr K. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr K responsible for the disputed
transactions or not.
The complaint revolves around the issue of a new device which was registered on the
account some weeks prior to the disputed transactions taking place. It was this device that
was used to set up and make the payments. Mr K has denied setting this new device up and
knows nothing about it.
Halifax provided details of what happened when this device was set up on their system. It
required the knowledge of Mr Ks password in order to access the banking app and enrol
the new device. A text message was then sent to Mr Ks registered mobile phone, which
Halifaxs system recorded as successful and allowed the new device to be registered on Mr
Ks account.
The user then updated details on the account and confirmed the changes using Mr Ks
password, including the change of mobile phone number. The new number was only two
digits different to the old mobile number (changing from a 6 to a 4) and used the same
network provider as Mr Ks old number.
On the day of the disputed transactions, a new payee was set up using the new device and
a payment was made to it. Shortly after this payment left the account, an incoming payment
was received into Mr Ks account which he explained he knew nothing about. This payment
was then sent to another new account. Mr Ks account was left with just over £100 in it.
Mr K explained that he received suspicious messages and may have clicked on links in
these messages that were sent to him leading up to the disputed transactions, but he also
explained that he hadnt entered details of his Halifax account or revealed his security details
to anyone.
So, in order to set up a new device and enrol it on Halifaxs banking app, the password was
required and access to the registered mobile phone. Its not clear how anyone other than MrK could have both the access and the knowledge of the password required to change the
device. His personal circumstances seem to rule out other family members and he confirmed
no-one else was at his home on the day of the device changes.
With the evidence provided, its difficult to see how an unauthorised third party could enrol
a new device without Mr Ks knowledge. The timing is also unusual because the device was
registered some weeks prior to the disputed transactions taking place. If the device was
registered by an unauthorised third party, they appeared to be waiting for funds to arrive in
Mr Ks account and this seems quite a risk that Mr K would become aware of the new
device. There were also undisputed transactions between the registering of the new device
and the disputed transactions.
If it was an unauthorised third party who registered the new phone, they somehow managed
to acquire a mobile phone number that was only different by two digits (a 4 instead of a 6), it
seems unlikely this was the result of someone unknown to Mr K. Halifax were also able to
identify the type of phone registered, which is the same type of phone used by Mr K (iPhone
6).
Taking everything into account, my current thinking based on the evidence Ive reviewed is I
think its implausible to conclude they werent authorised without stronger evidence to the
contrary. That means I currently think its more likely than not that Mr K carried out these
transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did so.
I invited Mr K and Halifax to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr K didnt respond and Halifax didnt have 
anything further to add about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman