DRN-2198391
The complaint
Mr D has complained about a loan was taken out with My Finance Club Limited trading as 
Monkeydosh that he didnt authorise. 
What happened
In 2015, a loan for £250 was opened with Monkey Dosh Limited in Mr Ds name. Monkey 
Dosh Limited was later acquired by My Finance Club, so for the sake of simplicity I will just 
refer to My Finance Club in this decision. 
Mr D has disputed having authorised this loan. He has said that, in 2015, a number of loans 
were taken out fraudulently in his name. Mr D has never made any payment toward this 
loan, but it has remained on his credit file since it was taken out. 
During the life of the loan, My Finance Club had sent regular notices and requests for 
payment. However, these were sent via SMS text message and email. And it does not seem 
the telephone number or email address My Finance Club had were those of Mr D. 
Mr D says he first became aware of this loan in 2018, and he contacted My Finance Club to 
dispute it. My Finance Club asked Mr D for some further information at this time, including a 
crime reference number which Mr D supplied. My Finance Club apparently told Mr D at this 
point that they needed the police to contact them before they could resolve the issue. This 
did not happen and the loan remained active. My Finance Club considered that it had carried 
out adequate checks when the loan was taken out. But it did not write to Mr D in 2018 to 
inform him of this. 
In 2020, Mr D realised the loan was still present on his credit file and contacted My Finance 
Club again. My Finance Club agreed to cancel the loan after Mr D had obtained confirmation 
from the third party bank, to which the loan was originally paid, that the receiving account 
was not his. As My Finance Club has accepted that this loan was likely taken out 
fraudulently, this service has not investigated whether Mr D authorised it or not.
Mr D remained unhappy though and brought his complaint to this service. He did not think 
the loan should have been granted in the first place and was also unhappy with the service 
hed been provided by My Finance Club when hed raised the issue.
Our investigator felt that My Finance Club had carried out appropriate checks when the loan 
was taken out and that, unfortunately, a level of inconvenience was necessary for Mr D to 
resolve this issue. So, she did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D was not 
satisfied with this and his complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I considered that My Finance Club had likely carried out appropriate checks at the time the 
loan was approved. But that the level of service provided by My Finance Club later on, 
particularly in 2018, had fallen short of what could be expected. So, I asked My Finance Club 
to pay Mr D £100 in compensation for this. My Finance Club agreed, but Mr D remained 
unhappy. He felt he was still being inconvenienced by the loan appearing on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue to address is whether the checks My Finance Club carried out when the loan 
was granted were appropriate. 
It is significant, to my mind, that this was a loan for £250. The checks required of a lender 
should be proportionate to the amount of borrowing and this was not a large loan in 
comparison to some others. That said, My Finance Club were still required to carry out some 
checks. 
Looking at the information provided at the time of the application though, largely speaking, I 
am satisfied My Finance Club acted appropriately. Mr Ds name, address and age were all 
correctly provided. Contact details and details of employment were also provided. The 
contact details included a work email address. 
This work email address appears to be fake. But it has been constructed to closely resemble 
the email address that an employee of the business it was claimed Mr D worked for, would 
have had. Given this, I feel it was understandable that My Finance Club believed Mr D was 
employed with this business. It does seem that My Finance Club attempted to further verify 
this by directly calling this business. They were informed that no-one by Mr Ds name was 
there. This might have raised some concerns and potentially My Finance Club could have 
pursued this further. But it is necessary for me to consider what was proportionate. 
Overall, I am satisfied that based on the information My Finance Club had at the time they 
did not act inappropriately by approving the loan.
The second issue relates to the actions of My Finance Club when Mr D disputed having 
authorised this loan. 
Having considered the actions of My Finance Club in 2018 particularly, I dont think they did 
enough. Whilst it is often necessary for a lender to request further information from a 
borrower when investigating a disputed transaction, I am not persuaded it was necessary for 
My Finance Club to require Mr D have the police call them. Apart from anything else, 
whether or not a criminal activity took place is a separate consideration to Mr Ds rights 
under the Payment Service Regulations. Under these regulations, My Finance Club should 
have investigated Mr Ds allegations and provided him with a response. But My Finance 
Club did not communicate the outcome of any investigation to him. 
Had My Finance Club taken the action it should have in 2018, I think Mr D could have 
provided the additional evidence he did in 2020 which ultimately resolved this issue. But as a 
result of My Finance Clubs failings, Mr D was further distressed and inconvenienced in 
2020. And I think My Finance Club should compensate Mr D for this.
However, I must bear in mind that the majority of the distress and inconvenience Mr D has 
referred to experiencing was as a result of the third-party fraudsters who set up this loan in 
the first place. Experiencing fraud is an understandably distressing event. 
As I have set out above, I do not consider My Finance Club to have been at fault when the 
fraud was apparently committed. And unwinding a situation where a disputed transaction 
has occurred will also cause a level of inconvenience to the customer who has been 
defrauded. So, whilst this was not helped by My Finance Clubs actions, Mr D would 
inevitably have experienced some inconvenience as a result of the situation. I do note Mr Ds comments over the loan still appearing on his credit record. Part of My 
Finance Clubs responsibilities, in a situation like this, is to ask for the customers credit 
record to be amended to remove reference to the loan. But My Finance Club has confirmed 
that it has asked various credit reference agencies to carry this out. It is then for those credit 
reference agencies to amend the records, and My Finance Club is not able to influence this 
further. So, if Mr D has an issue with his credit record, he will need to contact the credit 
refence agencies to resolve this.
It is fair and reasonable for me to only hold My Finance Club responsible for the parts of this 
situation that it should reasonably have avoided. And I consider £100 compensation to be a 
fair reflection of this.
Putting things right
My Finance Club Limited trading as Monkeydosh should pay Mr D £100 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. My Finance Club Limited trading as 
Monkeydosh should put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman