DRN-3672082
The complaint
Miss E says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss Es complaint is about a credit card account provided by Barclays. The account was 
opened in September 2021. Miss E was given an initial credit limit of £800.
Miss E complains that Barclays irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think Barclays had lent 
irresponsibly, because it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks which didnt 
show any signs that Miss E was likely to find the lending unsustainable or unaffordable.
Miss E disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website.
Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss E could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure.
Less detailed affordability checks can be reasonable and proportionate where a consumers 
financial situation is stable, and where borrowing is insignificant given the consumers overall 
financial circumstances.
I can see that Barclays obtained information about Miss Es income and expenditure and her 
credit commitments. Miss E declared annual income of £55,000 on her application form. 
Barclays converted this to a net monthly income figure and had this validated via a third 
party, which produced net monthly income of £4,236.00.
Barclays also carried out checks on Miss Es expenditure and existing consumer credit 
borrowing. This produced a monthly expenditure figure of £1673.00 which left monthly 
disposable income of £2005.00.
Taking into account the amount of credit being offered to Miss E (£800), Im satisfied that the 
checks carried out by Barclays were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether Miss E could sustainably repay the lending, based on the 
outcome of the checks.
Barclays checks showed that Miss E had existing consumer credit borrowing of £765.00. 
This is low, in the context of Miss Es overall financial situation, and there was nothing to 
suggest that the existing borrowing wasnt being repaid sustainably. Miss E did have an 
existing county court judgment, but this was over 3 years old. This of itself isnt an indicator 
that Miss E wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the lending.
Taking all of the information into account, I dont think that the checks carried out by 
Barclays showed anything which might suggest that Miss E wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay the loan.
Miss E has said that she was struggling to pay her priority bills at the time she applied for the 
credit card with Barclays. Shes provided some utility bills to support this, but these dont 
relate to the time when the application for the credit card was made. Theres nothing to 
suggest that Barclays ought reasonably to have been aware of the situation with Miss Es 
bills. I can see that Miss E missed some payments on her bills but there was no indication on 
her credit file that there was an issue. So, there was no reason for Barclays to carry out 
further checks.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Barclays were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything to suggest that the lending wasnt affordable for Miss 
E or that Barclays should have carried out further checks. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman