DRN-4474332
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with three international payments.
What happened
Mrs T says she made three international payments to Poland in October, November 2022 
and in January 2023. She says all three payments were returned to her TSB account but 
due to exchange rate differences, lost about £3,000. Mrs T says the fault must be either 
TSBs or the intermediary bank it chose to use. She would like compensation for the loss 
and distress caused.
TSB says Mrs T made the transactions online and the payments were sent to its 
intermediary bank which I will call S before being sent to a Polish bank and then to the 
beneficiary bank which I will call I. It says its records show it didnt make a mistake and that 
it was the beneficiary bank that returned the money without speaking to it. TSB says it cant 
be responsible for the actions of the two Polish banks.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think there any evidence that TSB itself made a mistake and that it sent the correct 
details. The investigator didnt think TSB responsible for the actions of the two Polish banks 
and thought it seemed the problem was with them.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and says TSB must take responsibility for the banks it chose 
to use. She has provided a translated copy of the letter from the beneficiary bank (I) which 
refers to a bank I will call S1 as being responsible for the mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I cant fairly hold TSB or its instructed 
intermediary bank responsible for what took place. I appreciate that Mrs T will be 
disappointed by my decision and accept that what took place was not her fault either.
I agree with Mrs T that TSB ought to be responsible for any mistake made by S, the 
intermediary bank. But I have not seen any evidence that either TSB or S made a mistake. I 
can see from TSBs records that it correctly sent the payment using the information inputted 
online by Mrs T. And I cant see any evidence that S then made a mistake as it sent the 
payment to the Polish banks.
I can see that I rejected the payment, which provides further evidence it was sent to it. I dont 
think it clear why I didnt ask for further information from TSB or S and I dont think it clear 
which of the two Polish banks may have been at fault. But I have made clear that I think the 
problem was caused by one or both of the Polish banks and in those circumstances, I cant 
fairly hold TSB responsible. I think it more likely that the beneficiary bank I required the 
involvement of the intermediary Polish bank rather than S. I can also see from the translated 
letter from I that there is reference to a completely different bank whom I have called S1 
which appears to have not had any involvement in the transaction.
Overall, Im satisfied that TSB correctly processed Mrs Ts transaction but on balance the 
problem was caused by either a bank or banks outside of its control. It follows that I cant 
fairly order TSB to repay losses caused by I returning the money to Mrs Ts TSB account. 
Im satisfied the money was correctly sent by TSB using the information Mrs T provided. I 
accept that Mrs T will have unanswered questions about what took place and can see that I 
says it doesnt have a bank document to confirm what took place. Again, that is not 
something I can fairly hold TSB responsible for. I think this now brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman