DRN-4066996
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc wouldnt assist her with handling her claim made 
on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out a policy through Sainsburys, a broker. When she made a claim, she was 
disappointed that Sainsburys referred her to the policys underwriter. She was also unhappy 
with how Sainsburys handled her complaint. Sainsburys said the policys underwriter was 
responsible for handling claims. But it paid Mrs B £25 compensation for how it had 
responded to her complaint. Mrs B remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs Bs 
policy documents made it clear that the underwriter was responsible for handling claims. So 
he didnt think Sainsburys had done anything wrong in this. He explained that complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so he couldnt comment on this part of Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B replied that she thought that as Sainsburys customer she could complain about it and 
the policys underwriter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs B feels frustrated by the lack of progress with her claim and 
repairs. I agree with Mrs B that she is entitled to complain about the level of service she 
receives from Sainsburys as it provides regulated services. But the scope of her complaints 
about Sainsburys are limited to the services it is contractually obliged to provide for her as 
her broker. I can see that these are set out in her policy documents:
Our relationship with you and your insurer
Please note that Sainsburys Bank is acting as an agent of the insurer(s), noted in your 
Policy Schedule.
Our service includes arranging your insurance cover with insurers to meet your 
requirements, and helping you with any changes you need to make, such as an amendment 
to the cover, use or vehicle insured.
Well also arrange the cancellation of your policy and arrange cover, where it is possible to 
do so, with an alternative insurer if your requirement to amend your policy isnt acceptable to 
your original insurer. Additionally, well arrange optional additional covers such as legal 
protection and breakdown requested by you and will arrange the renewal of your insurance. 
So Sainsburys, as a broker, administers Mrs Bs policy. But her policys underwriter is 
responsible for dealing with any claims. 
I can see that Mrs Bs Statement of Fact document states clearly who the policys 
underwriter is. And it provides contact details for it. Mrs B said she hadnt been able to 
contact her policys underwriter about her claim and she thought Sainsburys, as her broker, 
should assist her with this. I can understand Mrs Bs frustration. But I can see that 
Sainsburys forwarded her complaint to the underwriter. And I cant say that it needs to do 
more than this. Mrs B said she has also complained directly to the insurer. 
Mrs B thought that Sainsburys was responsible for the insurers actions and for choosing an 
insurer that was poorly regarded. But the insurer, and its agents, are separate businesses 
and so I cant say that Sainsburys is responsible for their actions. And we cant tell 
Sainsburys which insurers it chooses as underwriters as this is its commercial decision. I 
can see that Mrs Bs insurer is regulated, so it is entitled to provide insurance services. 
As our Investigator explained, complaints handling per se isnt a regulated activity except 
where it is integral to another valid complaint. I can see that Mrs B was unhappy with how 
Sainsburys administered her complaint about its service. So, as this was specifically about 
complaint handling, I cant consider this concern further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman