DRN-3128290
The complaint
Mr A complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) made an entry about him on the 
CIFAS fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
Mr A applied for a mortgage with Skipton in January 2019. Skipton refused the application 
and left a fraud marker on the CIFAS database, although it didnt tell Mr A that at the time. 
The CIFAS database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which allows financial 
services providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards.
Later Mr A found out about the marker following a credit application. He made a subject 
access request to CIFAS, which showed that Skipton had reported application fraud, saying 
that Mr A had provided false information about his employment status in support of his 
mortgage application. Mr A complained to Skipton saying that at the time of the application 
he did work where he said he did and had provided wage slips to prove it. He said Skipton 
should have done more to investigate what had happened before leaving the fraud marker 
on the CIFAS database.
Initially Skipton said it wouldnt remove the marker, so Mr A brought his complaint to our 
service. After that Skipton considered the matter again and changed its mind. Mr A says that 
in May 2021 CIFAS wrote to him to say that it was going to remove the marker with 
immediate effect. 
Mr A remained unhappy. He said that while he welcomed the removal of the fraud marker, 
Skipton shouldve listened to him before he had to go to the trouble of approaching CIFAS 
and the Financial Ombudsman. He complained that Skipton hadnt apologised to him or 
offered to compensate him for the impact of the fraud marker on him.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said that after Mr A brought his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman, Skipton agreed to uphold the complaint. It removed the fraud 
marker, agreed to send Mr A a written apology, and offered to pay him £500 compensation. 
Our investigator thought that was a fair and reasonable way for Skipton to resolve this 
complaint. She appreciated that Mr A wanted more compensation, but she thought the £500 
offered was reasonable for the trouble and upset Skipton caused. She said our awards 
arent intended to punish businesses for their mistakes, and that the £500 is in line with what 
the Financial Ombudsman would award for mistakes that have had a substantial impact on 
consumers.
In coming to her view our investigator said shed considered what Mr A had told us about 
being declined finance and bank accounts from different lenders. Mr A had provided her with 
a letter from a bank that said it was closing his account due to further checks. The letter 
suggested Mr A checked his CIFAS record. Our investigator said that while the letter didnt 
explicitly state that his account was closed as a result of the CIFAS marker, she thought it 
was reasonable to conclude it was.
However, this was the only letter Mr A was able to provide to support what hed told us about 
being declined finance. Our investigator had asked Mr A to send us a copy of his credit 
report so that she could see whether applications for credit were declined. But Mr A didnt 
provide this. Our investigator said shed considered all the evidence shed been provided 
with.
Our investigator said it wasnt possible for us to consider any occasions when 
Mr As business was declined credit in this complaint. Thats because Mr As business was 
run though a limited company and the CIFAS marker was in Mr As name - not the limited 
company.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services landscape, 
allowing sharing of information and assisting in the prevention of fraud. However, the 
consequences for an individual of being added to a database can be severe, so its 
important that a marker is only entered where it can be justified. 
The standard of proof for putting a marker on the CIFAS database is that there must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence of fraud, such that Skipton could confidently report the 
matter to the police or other authorities (whether or not it has actually done so). 
The standard required is therefore one of reasonable suspicion, not proof. But there must be 
evidence of fraud. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is acting 
dishonestly for financial gain.
In May 2021 Skipton accepted that it shouldnt have put the marker on the CIFAS database, 
and I understand the marker has now been removed. So the only remaining matter for me to 
decide is what it should do to put things right. 
Skipton has offered to send Mr A a letter of apology and pay him £500 compensation. Mr A 
doesnt think this is enough. He has told us that he had to make complaints to his broker, 
Skipton, CIFAS, and the Financial Ombudsman Service to get this matter resolved. That 
involved his having to spend time on numerous phone calls and write letters. Mr A has also 
told us about the impact this matter had on his mental wellbeing, and the difficulties he 
experienced obtaining credit.
Putting things right
Mr A has told us he was put to significant inconvenience between March and May 2021  
the period in which the marker was on the CIFAS database. However, I think that the £500 
offered fairly reflects that inconvenience and the impact on Mr A given the amount of time 
the marker was on the database. I also think it covers Mr A for the impact he says this matter 
has had on his health and wellbeing. As our investigator said, our awards arent intended to 
punish businesses for their mistakes, and I can see that Skipton acted quickly to remove the 
marker once it reviewed the matter again in May 2021. £500 is line with awards this service 
makes in cases where there has been a substantial impact on a consumer.
Like our investigator, Im conscious that Mr A has only provided us with written evidence to suggest that one application for credit was likely to have been declined as a result of the 
CIFAS marker. Mr A has told us that although other applications were refused, he no longer 
has correspondence to support what he has told us. I appreciate what he has told us. 
However, as Mr A has only been able to demonstrate that one application for credit was 
declined, I think can only fairly require Skipton to compensate Mr A for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused him.
I appreciate that Mr A is unlikely to be happy with my decision, but for the reasons set out 
above, I think the offer Skipton has made is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Skipton Building Society to apologise to Mr A in writing and pay him £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman