DRN-3012572
The complaint
Mr V and Mr V complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV), trading as ETI 
International Travel Protection, declined their claim against their travel insurance policy. 
Reference to ERV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr V and Mr V planned a trip to Southeast Asia. On                  
17 January 2020, they took out a single trip travel insurance policy with ERV. Cover 
under the policy was from 23 February 2020 to 27 March 2020. 
Mr V and Mr Vs original return date was 27 March 2020. In response to the covid-19 
pandemic, the country in which Mr V and Mr V were in imposed a travel ban, so they  
couldnt travel to the departure point of their return flight. Mr V and Mr Vs father phoned 
ERV on their instruction to try to find out what the delay meant in relation to their travel 
insurance. Ill refer to that phone call in more detail below.
Mr V and Mr V eventually returned to the UK in June 2020. They made a claim against 
their policy in relation to additional accommodation and flight costs. ERV declined the 
claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy in relation to catastrophic events.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that it was 
unreasonable for ERV to decline the claim. Mr V and Mr V didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considerable sympathy with Mr V and Mr V. Through no fault of their own, their trip was 
extended beyond their planned return date in what was no doubt very worrying 
circumstances. But I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy, 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive looked carefully at the policy and theres no cover for extending a trip in the 
circumstances which arose here. 
Ive also considered the Travel delay and disruption section of the policy. Theres 
an exclusion in that section relating to:
Any costs or expenses arising from a Catastrophe.
The policys definition of a catastrophe includes a medical epidemic.
I dont think that ERV acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on that exclusion.     
Mr V and Mr Vs claim arose from the travel restrictions imposed as a response to 
covid-19, a medical epidemic. Thats something ERV sought to exclude under the 
policy. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, the maximum limit of Mr V and   
Mr Vs claim under the travel delay part of the policy is £200 each, so their 
substantial claim for additional accommodation and flight costs wouldnt be covered. 
Ive listened to the phone call between ERV and Mr V and Mr Vs father. I dont think 
that theres anything in that phone call which alters the outcome here. ERV said that 
the policy would cover Mr V and Mr V until they returned home, as long as the delay 
is no fault of their own. That means, for example, that ERV would deal with an 
emergency medical claim. It doesnt extend the policy terms to cover claims that 
wouldnt otherwise be covered by the policy. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr V and Mr Vs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr V and Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman