DRN-2960582
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated him unfairly since the end of his 
mortgage term by instructing solicitors and applying costs for this to his mortgage. 
What happened
In 1993 Mr G took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays. He borrowed just under 
£32,000 over a term of 25 years.
The mortgage term expired in July 2018. Mr G had an investment product in place with the 
intention being that it would generate enough money to repay the mortgage. But 
unfortunately, it did not perform as intended. Mr G has said that was partially because, due 
to changes in his situation  including his health and employment status  he wasnt able to 
fully fund the policy.
The proceeds that were generated from the investment were paid to the mortgage in 
November 2018. This left an outstanding balance on the mortgage of approximately 
£17,500.
Barclays wrote regularly to Mr G, after the mortgage term expired, to ask him to contact it to 
discuss how this would be repaid.
Throughout 2019 Mr G sent letters regularly to Barclays saying he was looking into ways to 
repay the mortgage and would update it once plans were in place. He explained he had not 
worked for a number of years due to his health conditions and was in receipt of benefits. 
Mr G continued to pay interest each month and make small additional overpayments to 
gradually reduce the outstanding balance.
Barclays asked, on a number of occasions, that Mr G provide details of his income and 
expenditure so it could see what solutions it could offer him. It also asked for additional 
details of the plans to repay the mortgage. But Mr G did not provide this information.
As a result, in July 2019, Barclays said it would instruct a field agent. Mr G objected to this, 
as he didnt want to incur any associated costs. But, as he still declined to provide further 
information about his circumstances, the field agents visit went ahead. No costs were 
applied to the mortgage in respect of this visit. 
Mr G declined to discuss the mortgage with the field agent or provide any further information 
about his plans. He continued to regularly write to Barclays saying he was looking into how 
he could repay the mortgage. And he did continue to maintain interest payments and make 
small overpayments.
In September 2019, as Mr G declined to provide information about his situation  including 
his income and expenditure or repayment plans  Barclays instructed solicitors to begin 
litigation. In November 2019 a charge of £229.20 was applied to Mr Gs mortgage in respect 
of solicitors costs. A further £180 was charged in February 2020.
Mr G complained to Barclays about it adding costs to his mortgage and increasing the 
balance. He said he didnt think this was fair as hed continued to pay interest after the term 
expired.
In March 2020, while the complaint was ongoing, Mr G made two large lump sum 
repayments to the mortgage, bringing the outstanding balance down to just over £2,100. He 
has also continued to make overpayments monthly, so that, by April 2021 the balance stood 
at just over £1,700.  
In response to the complaint, Barclays said it didnt think it had acted unreasonably in 
beginning litigation. It said Mr G had declined to provide information about his circumstances 
to allow it to look at solutions. And, as the balance of the mortgage was due following the 
expiry of the term, it wasnt unfair for it to request repayment.
Unhappy with this response, Mr G asked our service to consider the complaint as he still 
didnt think it was fair that Barclays had added £409.20 in costs to his mortgage.
One of our investigators looked into matters but didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably, as Mr G had declined to provide information when requested.
Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said, while he might not 
have followed Barclays processes, he had written to it regularly and maintained regular 
repayments. So, he still didnt think hed been treated fairly. As a result, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage agreement made between Mr G and Barclays was that, when the term 
expired in July 2018, the balance owed would be repaid. It wasnt unreasonable for Barclays 
to expect the repayment to be made as agreed or, when this was not forthcoming, for it to 
make enquiries or request this. 
Mr G has explained that part of the reason for this was a change in his circumstances and 
the underperformance of an investment. And I appreciate these things were beyond his 
control. But they also werent due to anything Barclays did, so I still think it was fair for it to 
request repayment, or details of how Mr G was planning to repay.
I can see that Mr G continued to repay interest on a monthly basis after the term expired and 
make overpayments to reduce the balance. And he has said he thinks this means it was 
unfair for Barclays to take further action. But I dont think Barclays was required to simply 
accept those repayments or that it was unreasonable to ask for additional information about 
longer term plans for repayment. Again, the original term had expired, and the outstanding 
balance was due in full. And I dont think Barclays was required to just continue to accept 
interest repayments indefinitely.
Ive also seen evidence that Barclays calculated, at the rate repayment was being made, it 
wouldve taken a significant number of years for the mortgage to be repaid in full. So again, I 
think it was fair for it to ask for details of Mr Gs circumstances and his plans for making 
repayment. And I dont think these payments being made meant it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to take further action.
Id expect Barclays to look at what it could do to assist Mr G when his term expired and what 
solutions could be offered. But it would be unable to do this without up to date information about his circumstances, which he needed to provide. So, I think it was fair for Barclays to 
ask for this.
I can see that Mr G did write to Barclays regularly, saying he was looking into how he could 
repay the mortgage. He has said this shows, while he might not have followed Barclays 
process, he was keeping it informed. But having reviewed the available letters he sent to 
Barclays, I dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays to say it needed more details. The 
letters from Mr G provided no specific plans for repayments or details to allow Barclays to 
assess what was affordable for him longer term or if his plans were likely to result in 
successful repayment. While Mr G might not have wanted to provide this additional detail, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays to ask for this  particularly as the term of the 
mortgage had expired. And when this information wasnt forthcoming, I dont think it was 
unfair of Barclays to take additional action.
Mr G has said he is unhappy that Barclays instructed a visit by a field agent when he asked 
it not to. But I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in doing this. Mr G hadnt engaged 
with Barclays by providing information it was reasonably requesting. So, I think it was fair to 
take this additional action. And despite what Mr G has said, having review his account 
statements, there doesnt appear to have been any charge for this. So, I dont think this 
action has left him any worse off.
The report from the field agent and Barclays notes say Mr G refused to speak to the agent or 
provide additional information about his circumstances. The outstanding balance on the 
mortgage at that stage was a year overdue  having supposed to have been repaid in full in 
July 2018. Mr G has said he was trying to repay the mortgage as best his circumstances 
would allow. But he refused to have any meaningful discussion about these circumstances 
with Barclays. And it isnt unreasonable for Barclays to have wanted some more details 
before just accepting repayment of the interest indefinitely.  So, given that it was still owed a 
significant sum and Mr G had declined to provide it any substantive update, I dont think it 
was unreasonable to take the decision to begin recovery action.
The costs incurred as a result of this, £409.20, were added to the mortgage balance. And 
this is the main point of contention here  as Mr G thinks this was unfair. But I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to apply these costs to the mortgage in line with its 
usual practices. Im satisfied it had made a significant number of attempts to engage with 
Mr G before that point, which hed declined. So, I dont think it was wrong to instruct 
solicitors. And I cant fairly say that Barclays should have to bear the associated costs, as it 
hadnt done anything wrong. So, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, I 
dont think Barclays has done anything wrong, and I dont intend to require it to refund the 
costs charged to the mortgage.
Moving forward, as Ive said, I understand that the mortgage balance has been significantly 
reduced. I think it is reasonable that Barclays would still want to engage with Mr G about a 
plan for repayment of the remaining balance. And I think he should discuss this, and his 
situation with Barclays, so that a plan can be agreed. If he declines to do so, as the balance 
is due to it, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Barclays to continue to pursue 
repayment. I would though expect it to be conscious of how far the balance has now 
reduced, and for any further action to be proportionate.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman