DRN-2786640
The complaint
Miss C says that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop 
Car Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss C entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement, with 1st Stop Car 
Finance for a used car, which was three years old and had a mileage of 79,000.
During the life of the agreement Miss C has missed payments and arrears have built up. 
1st Stop Car Finance says the car is at risk of being repossessed.
Miss C said that having had the car for around six months she noticed it was making a 
whistling noise, and then the car started to show it was low on coolant. Miss C said she 
had to top up the coolant several times in a short space of time and took the car to a 
garage for it be looked at. The garage carried out a health check and reported that there 
was a milky sludge in the oil, the coolant was bubbling, the water level was below the 
minimum, there appeared to be a water pump leak, an issue with the auxiliary belt and 
tensioner, a brown residue around the water pump, an engine squeak and the brake discs 
were corroded.
Miss C said she was told by that garage that looking at the previous service record the 
coolant level had been identified as an issue in January 2019. Miss C said she didnt think 
that the cars previous owner had dealt with this at the time.
Miss C complained to 1st Stop Car Finance about the condition of the car. 1st Stop Car 
Finance asked Miss C to have the car independently inspected to investigate what 
issues the car had, and whether any faults had been either developing or present at 
the point of sale to Miss C. Miss C declined to have the car inspected and said she 
believed she had supplied enough evidence.
1st Stop Car Finance decided to close Miss Cs complaint. It said Miss C had had the car 
in her possession for over six months and driven 9,000 miles before it developed a 
problem and there wasnt evidence any faults which may now be present had been 
either developing or present when Miss C had acquired the car.
Miss C disagreed with 1st Stop Car Finances decision and complained to this service. 
During this services investigation, Miss C agreed that the car could be independently 
inspected to assist with identifying what the issues were. But before this inspection could 
be undertaken Miss C received a Safety Recall notice for the car from the manufacturer. 
The recall was in relation to the EGR module which the manufacturer warned could 
develop a leak. The symptoms described by the manufacturer of a faulty EGR included 
low coolant levels and a loss of power.
Miss C said this was proof the car had an inherent fault, and 1st Stop Car Finance 
should have done more to check there were no outstanding recall notices before 
providing the car to her. She said it would be fair for the car to be repaired, for the 
arrears that had built up under the agreement to be wiped off (as she hadnt been able 
to use the car since December 2019), that the costs of hiring a replacement car be 
reimbursed and that she should also receive compensation.
1st Stop Car Finance said it couldnt have known about this recall notice but thought that, 
if Miss C had agreed to the earlier inspection, it would have been likely this would have 
been picked up sooner than it had.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Cs complaint should be partially upheld. He 
said that in light of the safety notice, and that the symptoms described by Miss C 
matched those that would arise with a faulty EGR module, he thought it was likely there 
was a fault with the car and that this had been present at the point of sale. The safety 
recall notice had been issued prior to the date the car had been provided to Miss C. Our 
investigator said that 1st Stop Car Finance was responsible for repairing this issue 
although, in this case, it would be the manufacturer who would carry this out.
As Miss C had stopped paying for the car under the agreement, and had declined the 
inspection, our investigator didnt think shed helped to mitigate her losses. He said he 
noted the car hadnt been usable since December 2019, so he thought a refund of some 
of the payments under the agreement would be fair. Looking at the evidence, our 
investigator said it would be fair for 1st Stop Car Finance to reduce the outstanding arrears 
by half, covering the period from December 2019 until October 2020 (being the date of 
the investigators view).
Our investigator also said that, as the burden of showing the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality rested with Miss C, and she hadnt provided that evidence, it wouldnt 
be fair to ask 1st Stop Car Finance to cover the car hire costs shed incurred for the 
period shed chosen not to engage with it to resolve the issues.
In regard to the adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file for this agreement, 
our investigator said that 1st Stop Car Finance was obliged to record accurate 
information. Miss C had missed payments and then chosen to stop paying altogether. 
Even though the car had a fault she wasnt entitled to take this action. Our investigator 
said he wouldnt ask 1st Stop Car Finance to remove this information from her credit file.
Finally, our investigator said that he thought £200 compensation was fair for dealing with 
the faulty car. He said this amount could be offset against the arrears.
Miss C disagreed with the view reached by our investigator. She said that the car had 
been faulty and 1st Stop Car Finance should have done more checks before selling the 
car. She said all the arrears under the agreement should be wiped off. Miss C disagreed 
that the car rental fees she had claimed were excessive and said she had needed a car 
to get around, so had had to hire one. She also thought the compensation award was 
insufficient for the distress this had caused.
Miss C said that, although the car had gone for the EGR repair, it had broken down on 
the way back from the garage and had been unusable since. It was now SORN.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
When looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I was not bound by them when I considered what was fair and 
reasonable.As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss C wa a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. 1st Stop Car 
Finance was also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, theres an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being just over three-years old and with a mileage of 79,000, 
which was higher than the average mileage for a car of that age. And I thought that, 
taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to be 
issues with maintenance and repair, since components of the car would have been 
subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be 
expectation that the car was fault free.
Miss C had experienced issues with the car after shed had it for around six months. In 
that time, she had also driven an additional 9,000 miles, so I thought a reasonable person 
would have reasonably expected repairs to be required at that point. Id seen that Miss C 
took the car to a garage where a health check was carried out. 1st Stop Car Finance wasnt 
satisfied this report was enough to show the car had faults that had been present at the 
point of sale. And, looking at this report, I thought 1st Stop Car Finance had acted fairly 
when it took that view. As set out by our investigator, this report didnt provide any opinion 
as to the cause of the defects or their age. It also included a number of items that would 
be expected to need maintenance and repair over time, such as the brakes and the 
auxiliary belt and water pump.
I appreciated Miss C believed that, as the issue with the coolant level had been 
identified at the service in January 2019, this had shown there was an issue with the car. 
However, again I agreed with our investigators view that this service record didnt really 
assist and there could have been a number of reasons for the coolant level to be low. 
So, I didnt think that Miss C had produced sufficient evidence to show there was a fault 
with the car that had been present at the point of sale. I appreciated Miss C had declined 
to have the car independently inspected, as shed thought shed provided enough 
evidence and that shed been advised that she didnt need to do more but, by rejecting 
the request, it had made it difficult to assess the condition of the car. 1st Stop Car 
Finance said originally that it was closing her complaint because it was unable to 
investigate, and I didnt think that was an unreasonable step for it to have taken at that 
time.
Id seen that, during the investigation by this service, Miss C had received a safety recall 
notice from the manufacturer. I was satisfied that this wasnt a deliberate oversight by the 
dealership, and that this wasnt known about at the point of sale. But this lack of 
knowledge didnt mean that 1st Stop Car Finance wasnt still responsible for the quality of 
the car.
Looking at the issues Miss C said shed been having with the car, the findings of the garage during the health check and the symptoms described as being due to a faulty 
EGR, I thought that it was experiencing issues with this part. So, I thought it was 
reasonable to say that its more likely than not that the car had a faulty EGR module and 
that this, being a manufacturing issue, would have been present or developing at the point 
of sale of the car to Miss C.
Miss C said the car was now SORN, having broken down a short time after the EGR 
module was repaired via the manufacturer. But I didnt have any mechanical evidence 
that tells me what the current issues were with the car, whether the EGR repair had 
failed, or whether the problem with the car was related to something else. As set out 
above, I thought it was reasonable to expect a car of this age and mileage to require 
some maintenance and repairs, so I couldnt fairly say that because the car wasnt 
currently working Miss C was now entitled to reject it for having a failed repair. I didnt 
have enough evidence to reach that conclusion.
In these circumstances, I thought it was reasonable for me to say that the evidence Id 
seen showed that it was more likely than not the car had had a faulty EGR module at the 
point of sale. However, this had been repaired, and I thought Miss C needed to show via a 
report from a garage that the car was still unusable because this repair had failed. In the 
absence of that evidence, I thought it was reasonable for me to consider the car had new 
issues which were likely to be related to wear and tear. So, I treated the car as though the 
EGR repair had been successful.
As the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality from the point of sale, I needed to consider 
what would be suitable redress. Id seen that Miss C had built up substantial arrears under 
the agreement. I understood she had paid about £800 toward the car, which equated to 
around three months worth of payments. I didnt know the cars current mileage, but Id 
seen that Miss C had driven at least an additional 9,000 miles in it. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, a deduction for use of the car was permissible. And I thought it was fair 
that she paid for that mileage which, taking 1,000 miles per month as average use, 
equated to nine months worth of use. So, I thought it was fair for Miss C to pay all the 
instalments that had fallen due in the first nine months of the agreement. This took the 
agreement up to March 2020.
I was aware that Miss C said shed been unable to use the car from December 2019, 
though I was  also aware she had the car MOTd in November 2020, before then taking it 
off the road. However, as I had no evidence the car had been further used, I thought that it 
would be fair for Miss Cs account to be credited back all payments that fell due between 
March 2020 and November 2020 (nine months worth of instalments) which was when the 
repair to EGR had been due to be undertaken. From December 2020, the payments would 
again fall due.
Miss C had requested she received all her car hire payments back, but I didnt think that 
was reasonable. Miss C had been able to use the car up to December 2019, and she 
had driven an above average number of miles in it. As set out above I thought she 
should pay for that use whichtakes the agreement up to March 2020. So, I didnt think it 
was fair to ask 1st Stop Car Finance to cover the costs of Miss Cs rental car up to March 
2020. And, as she was being reimbursed her payments from March to November 2020, 
(when the car was repaired), then I didnt think it was fair that 1st Stop Car Finance also 
paid for her car hire costs as she would expect to have to pay travel costs whether the 
car had been faulty or not.
From December 2020, as I didnt have enough evidence to say the car was suffering from 
an inherent fault, it wasnt fair to ask 1st Stop Car Finance to cover her travel costs. So, for 
the reasons given, I wasnt intending to ask 1st Stop Car Finance to reimburse Miss C her rental car fees.
I appreciated that dealing with the faulty car had caused Miss C distress and 
inconvenience. Looking at the impact of the faulty EGR module I thought £200 was a fair 
and reasonable amount.
I also appreciated Miss C was concerned about her credit record, however, I had to take 
into account that she had chosen to stop paying under the agreement, which she wasnt 
entitled to do. Id also seen that there were issues with payments being made from shortly 
after the agreement was taken out. In light of the evidence I thought 1st Stop Car Finance 
had correctly recorded that there had been missed payments and the agreement was in 
arrears. I wasnt intending to ask it to remove this adverse information.
,
So, for the reasons given above I was intending to partially uphold Miss Cs complaint.
1st Stop Car Finance has agreed with my view, but Miss C doesnt. She says as the car was 
subject to a recall notice when she acquired it this shows the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and she should be able to reject it. She says she would now agree to receive the 
£200 compensation and be reimbursed the £600 she has spent to consider the matter 
ended. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any further evidence from either party about the condition of the 
car, so having reviewed my provisional decision and looked again at all of the evidence I 
havent changed my mind.
I appreciate my decision is lengthy and so I hope a summary will assist Miss C in 
understanding why I disagree that she is entitled to reject the car and receive back all the 
money she has paid out under the agreement. I also disagree that all of the arrears that had 
built up under the agreement should be written off by 1st Stop Car Finance.
I accept the car was subject to a recall notice for the EGR module and that the problems 
Miss C describes as experiencing with the car at the start of her complaint were similar to 
those described as signs of a faulty EGR module in the recall notice. I think that this means 
that its more likely than not the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale due to 
an issue with this part.
1st Stop Car Finance, as the provider of the car, was responsible for putting this right. 
However, due to there being a recall notice it was actually the manufacturer who agreed to 
take responsibility for carrying out this repair. 
Miss C says that the car broke down a short time after the car under went the EGR module 
repair and hasnt been used since. But I didnt have any evidence as to what had caused this 
break down. I wasnt able to say whether this was due to a failed repair to the EGR module 
or had some other cause. And taking into account the age and mileage of the car, I cant 
reasonably rule out that a new fault having developed due to wear and tear. So, as I couldnt 
say there was an ongoing fault with the car that had been present since the point of sale, I 
couldnt reasonably say that Miss C was now entitled to reject the car.
Having decided Miss C wasnt entitled to hand the car back and unwind the agreement, I did 
think, however, that she was entitled to some redress for having to deal with the faulty car up until the point the manufacturer had undertaken the repairs. And, when looking at this, I took 
into account the mileage Miss C had done in the car as I think its fair she covers the cost of 
using it. I have set out above my decision in respect of which periods under the agreement 
should be reimbursed and which Miss C should be responsible for and I havent changed my 
view on that.
I also think that £200 compensation is due to Miss C for the distress and inconvenience 
dealing with the faulty car caused. However, in light of the arrears that Miss C will need to 
clear with 1st Stop Car Finance I think its fair for it to credit that amount to her account rather 
than paying this amount directly to her.
Miss C hasnt asked me to look again at the recording of adverse information on her credit 
file and again looking at the evidence I havent changed my mind that my provisional view on 
that was fair.
So, for the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking 1st Stop Car Finance to do the following:
Credit Miss Cs account with nine months worth of payments under the 
agreement (to reflect March to November 2020)
Credit Miss Cs account with £200 to reflect an award of £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
As set out above, Im partially upholding Miss Cs complaint. Im asking 1st Stop Car 
Finance Ltd to do the following:
Credit Miss Cs account with nine months worth of payments under the 
agreement (to reflect March to November 2020)
Credit Miss Cs account with £200 to reflect an award of £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 01 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman