DRN-2612717
The complaint
Mr N complains about the settlement amount offered by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
following a total loss claim under his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In April 2020, Mr Ns car was unfortunately struck by a third-party whilst parked on the 
roadside  causing damage. Admiral deemed Mr Ns car a total loss after reviewing photos 
of the damage.  
Admiral were unable to obtain a valuation from the motor trade guides. So, they appointed 
an independent engineer to inspect the photos and provide a market value. Following this, 
Admiral offered Mr N £3,500 to settle the claim. Mr N didnt think this was a fair amount as 
he said hed seen similar cars to his selling online at a much higher price. 
Admiral looked at what Mr N said and increased the settlement to £4,000. But Mr N still 
didnt think this was fair. He also felt Admiral had caused unnecessary delays when handling 
the claim, so he raised a complaint. 
Admiral responded to the complaint. They said their offer of £4,000 was fair and reasonable 
and didnt agree to increase this. Mr N said Admiral provided him with a separate response 
about claim delays and offered him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr N remained unhappy with the claim settlement amount and brought a complaint to this 
service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint. She checked the motor trade guides and 
found a fourth guide gave a valuation which was higher than the amount offered by Admiral. 
She felt Admiral should therefore increase their offer and include interest. 
Admiral didnt agree. They felt their offer of £4,000  which was given by an independent 
engineer  was fair and reasonable. They also said Mr Ns car had pre-existing damage that 
would cost £3,000 to repair. Admiral also said Mr N placed a value of £4,000 on his car 
when he took out the policy. 
Our investigator accepted the valuation she obtained didnt take the pre-existing damage 
into account. So, she recommended Admiral should increase the settlement amount from 
£4,000 to £7,578 and deduct 50% of the pre-existing damage repair cost. She also said 
Admiral should include interest from the date the initial payment was made, to the date of 
settlement of the remaining amount. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns policy provides cover for damage caused to his car following an incident. This says 
Admiral will either pay to repair the car or provide a cash settlement which represents a fair 
market value of the car at the time of the loss. Market value is defined as: 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in 
which you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if you 
bought your car privately or at an auction. Non-European manufactured cars will be 
valued based on European import values or the nearest British equivalent. 
I should explain this services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car 
is. We look at whether the insurer has applied the policy terms correctly and valued the car 
fairly. Generally, I think the most reliable way to establish a cars likely market value is to rely 
on the figures quoted in the national motor trade guides. These are based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely selling prices. Whilst I do take adverts into account, I can see 
here there is quite a significant range of asking prices which reflect a sellers desired price 
and allows for a negotiation process. 
Admiral considered the motor trade guides but were unable to produce a valuation during 
this process based on the guides they used. So, as an alternative in this case, they 
appointed an independent engineer to inspect the photos Mr N provided. They reached a 
final value of £4,000. They said this also reflected the valuation Mr N placed on the car at the 
time he took out the policy. 
Our investigator used a fourth guide and was able to obtain a valuation of £7,578. Ive 
considered this along with the independent engineers valuation. And in this case, on 
balance, Im more persuaded by the motor trade guide because this is based on nationwide 
research into likely selling prices. Though I do accept the guide doesnt take account of the 
pre-existing damage to Mr Ns car thats unrelated to the incident that took place in April 
2020. So, I think its fair a deduction is made to take this into account. 
Admirals said the repair costs to make good the pre-existing damage is £3,000. Ive 
considered this along with the photos of Mr Ns car, and Ive seen nothing to persuade me 
that this is unreasonable. So, I think a 50% deduction of the repair costs is fair and 
reasonable in this complaint. 
Overall, I accept it has been difficult to reach a fair market value given Admiral were unable 
to produce a valuation from the motor trade guides they used. As above, there are also 
several online advertisements which give quite a significant range of asking prices. So, Im 
most persuaded by the fourth guide our investigator found to determine whether Admirals 
offer is fair and reasonable. And its because of this, I dont think Admirals offer of £4,000 is 
fair and reasonable. 
The market value of a car is impacted by its condition at the time of loss. So, I think a 50% 
deduction of the pre-existing repair damage fairly takes the condition of Mr Ns car into 
account. 
Admiral also said their offer of £4,000 is the same as the value Mr N placed on his car when 
taking out the insurance. But I dont think that means Admiral should pay what Mr N insured 
the car for when he took out the policy. This is because the policy limits Admirals liability to 
the market value at the time of loss. And so, I dont think this should have a bearing on the 
outcome of this complaint. So, I think Admiral shouldve paid Mr N £7,578 minus 50% of the repair costs which is 
£1,500. I also note Admiral deducted the policy excess from the settlement amount, and Mr 
N will need to claim this back if he hasnt done so already. Admiral should include interest at 
the simple yearly rate of 8% from the date of the payment to him for his car to the date of 
settlement. 
I can also see Mr N complained about delays experienced during the claim process. This 
aspect of Mr Ns complaint wasnt included as part of Admirals first response about the 
claim value. Ive seen he told us Admiral wrote to him and sent him a cheque for £150 in 
relation to this. This aspect of Mr Ns complaint isnt something Ive gone onto consider as a 
separate response was provided to Mr N whilst his complaint about the claim value was 
being considered by us. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Admiral should increase the settlement amount from £4,000 
to £7,578 and pay Mr N the difference of whats already been paid. They should deduct 
£1,500 from the remaining amount payable which takes account of 50% of the pre-existing 
damage repair costs. 
Admiral should include interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the payment to him 
for his car to the date of settlement. Mr Ns policy excess has already been deducted from 
the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to put matters right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman