DRN-3145041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a curtailment claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs B booked a tour to a country Ill call C through a company Ill call 
T. They took out a Trailfinders single trip travel insurance policy in July 2019. Cover under 
the policy began on 1 March 2020 and was due to end on 23 March 2020, when Mr and Mrs 
B were due to return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs B travelled to C as planned and travelled on the planned tour. However, on 11 
March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 18 
March 2020, Cs government declared a state of catastrophe and on 19 March 2020, the 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) had strongly encouraged UK 
nationals to leave C.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs B cut short their trip and booked new return flights. They flew back 
to the UK on 20 March 2020. T offered a refund for the portion of their tour which had been 
cut short, but it appears that this didnt include the cost of their original return flight. As Mr 
and Mrs B were left out of pocket for the costs associated with curtailing the trip, they made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that 
the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the 
policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. 
This meant Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been covered if theyd cancelled and they wouldnt 
have been covered if they travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined 
effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr and Mrs B had been aware that they 
wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before they travelled, they wouldve been 
unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for AWP to assess Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP disagreed. It said the policy didnt cover every eventuality and its impossible to list 
every exclusion. It said its a customers decision to review the policy and decide whether or 
not the policy is right for them. The FCDO only strongly encouraged UK nationals to leave C 
and it also said that Mr and Mrs B had already been abroad when the advice was given. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines 
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. The 
FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to: 
 act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer; 
 handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the 
information that must be set out in an IPID, which gives customers an at a glance summary 
of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks 
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of 
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors 
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 2, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of 
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions set out the listed, insured events which AWP 
covers if a policyholder curtails their trip. These are:
The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy legislation, 
cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security staff, summoning to 
jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your travelling
companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of, 
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the 
presence of the person concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of an 
emergency service requires your presence.
In the event of curtailment, the policy states that AWP will pay:
a A pro-rata proportion of non-refundable unused inclusive tour costs, or
b Alternatively the original value of non- refundable unused air tickets up to the sum insured 
for any of the above reasons.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things AWP doesnt cover and which apply to the 
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 14 of the policy:
You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the 
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to turn down the claim? 
Mr and Mrs B cut short their trip because Cs government declared a state of catastrophe, 
which led to the FCDO strongly encouraging non-residents of C to leave the country. In my 
view, I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to conclude that the FCDO was advising 
against travel to and remaining in C. FCDO advice against all but essential travel to or to 
leave a policyholders destination isnt something that is covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads 
to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on 
to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs B had remained abroad (in 
the event that it was possible for them to do so), theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So 
it seems they wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions. 
But, under the terms and conditions of the contract, curtailment of a holiday due to changes 
in FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Mr and Mrs B. Mr and Mrs B wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and 
conditions in order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, 
regardless of the presence of a cooling off period in the contract, I dont think that this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont 
think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs B 
and AWP. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve purchased the policy if theyd 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after theyd 
bought it. And, at the time Mr and Mrs B bought the policy, they wouldve been able to find 
cover elsewhere which did cover the circumstances they subsequently found themselves in.
It's clear that the situation which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was unprecedented and 
couldnt have been foreseen by either insurers or policyholders. But for the reasons Ive 
outlined, and in these circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for 
AWP to treat Mr and Mrs Bs claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy 
and to assess it in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Mr and Mrs Bs claim as covered under the curtailment section 
of the policy and to assess it in line with the remaining terms and conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman