DRN-3342581
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he got from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G)
following a claim on his electrical appliance breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had an insurance policy with D&G covering the breakdown of his oven once the
manufacturers guarantee period ended.
Mr M called D&G when two bulbs in his oven went out. An engineer came out to replace
them. After the engineer left, Mr M realised the second bulb hadnt been replaced. Mr M
says when he called him up, the engineer said he didnt have the second bulb. But Mr M
later found it, unopened, when he was clearing up after the engineers visit.
So Mr M called D&G to make another appointment for the second bulb to be fitted. He was
initially told this wouldnt be for more than a week (although an earlier appointment was
subsequently made). Mr M says the second engineer couldnt replace the bulb because a
wire in the oven had melted  so both a new bulb and a new wire had to be ordered. A third
appointment was made to carry out the repair.
When the third engineer visited, he said the wrong part had been ordered so he couldnt
repair the oven. At this point, following what Mr M says were lengthy discussions, D&G said
it would replace his oven.
When the replacement oven was delivered, Mr M found it needed to be installed by an
electrician. And D&G said it wouldnt pay for this, or for the old oven to be taken away,
because the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy excluded these things.
Mr M complained to D&G. It offered him £55 for failing to make a promised call-back and for
poor customer service. D&G didnt agree to pay Mr Ms costs in installing the new oven and
disposing of the old one.
Mr M says the compensation D&G has offered him is inadequate for the distress and
inconvenience hes been caused. In brief, he says hes had a lot of hassle dealing with the
repair and couldnt use his oven for about ten days. He also says D&G broke his oven and
so should pay for its disposal and the installation of the new one.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. He thought the terms and
conditions of Mr Ms policy meant D&G didnt have to pay Mr Ms installation or removal
costs. And he thought the compensation D&G had offered Mr M was fair and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed and so his complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 31 
January 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold part of Mr Ms complaint. Mr M hasnt 
had anything to add to my provisional decision. D&G disagrees with it. Mr Ms complaint has 
now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and 
direct D&G to pay him £350 in total in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
handling of his claim has caused him. In my decision, I said:
I think its fair and reasonable to direct D&G to pay Mr M £350 in compensation for
the distress and inconvenience its caused him. But I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable to ask D&G to pay Mr Ms installation and disposal costs.
When Mr M brought his complaint to us, he said D&G had caused him (as well as his family)
a lot of anguish and inconvenience. He says he couldnt use his oven and hob for about ten 
days following the second engineers visit. He says both are connected to the same
electrical point and that, while the second engineer had told him the oven was safe to use,
when Mr M tried to use it the oven turned itself off and tripped the other electrics. So Mr M
says he and his family had to have takeaway meals until the new oven was delivered. And
he says this was especially hard because a member of his family with complex medical
conditions needed a special diet which, without cooking facilities, Mr M couldnt provide.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr M also says he had to deal with a lot of hassle with D&G. He
describes the incompetence of D&Gs engineers (the first of whom Mr M also says lied to
him about not having the second bulb), the time taken between each visit, the ordering of the
wrong parts, the advice that his oven was safe to use when he says it wasnt and the
numerous calls hed had to make to D&G to progress his claim, as well as a failed call-back.
Mr M describes the impact of these things as severe. I can understand why he feels this
way. Ive listened to some of the phone calls Mr M had with D&G. Its clear hes very anxious
to get the oven fixed as soon as possible, particularly because of his family members
special dietary needs. So it mustve been especially hard for Mr M that something as
seemingly simple as replacing two bulbs in his oven took so long and, after many phone
calls and visits from three engineers over the course of a couple of weeks, was ultimately
unsuccessful.
In assessing Mr Ms complaint, I can only look at the impact of D&Gs actions on Mr M as the
policyholder (and not his wider family). But I think D&Gs poor handling of Mr Ms oven repair
has caused him considerable distress, upset and worry, as well as inconvenience and
disruption that its taken him time to sort out. In these circumstances, and based on what Ive
seen so far, I intend to award Mr M £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
D&G has caused him.
Mr M also says D&G should pay his costs in getting his new oven installed and his old one
disposed of. He says this is because D&G broke his old oven. D&G says it wont pay these
costs because Mr Ms policy excludes them.
I can understand why  following the second engineers visit  Mr M says D&G broke his
oven, in the sense that he couldnt use it. But its my understanding D&G gave Mr M the
option to get a new oven because of its delays in getting the old one fixed, and not because
it couldnt be repaired. Mr M no longer has the old oven so theres no way of finding out
whether D&Gs actions broke it beyond repair. Without more evidence to support Mr Ms
view about what happened, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct D&G to pay
Mr Ms installation and disposal costs for the ovens.As Ive said, Mr M hasnt given any comments on my provisional decision. D&G doesnt 
agree with it. It says, among other things, the plan Mr M holds is a repair plan and its D&Gs 
business model to repair appliances and extend their lifecycle without automatically 
replacing them. It says D&G stepped outside Mr Ms terms and conditions to try to resolve 
the issues by agreeing to replace Mr Ms oven rather than asking him to wait for another 
repair. So it thinks its already gone above and beyond for Mr M in writing off his oven 
rather than attending for a second time. It says Mr Ms oven wasnt beyond economic 
repair and its confident it didnt need to be replaced.
D&Gs comments on my provisional decision dont change my findings on this complaint, 
which now form part of this final decision. Mr M had three visits from D&Gs engineers over a 
period of 10 days or so for what (at least at the start) was the straightforward replacement of 
two bulbs. None of these visits dealt with the problem  and so Mr M was faced with waiting 
for a fourth visit. 
Mr Ms policy says there are circumstances in which D&G will replace a product rather than 
repair it (the examples given are where it cant be repaired or is beyond economic repair). 
D&G says its confident Mr Ms oven wasnt beyond economic repair. But D&G has given us 
no evidence to support this statement  and because, as I understand it, the oven was 
disposed of, theres now no way of knowing if it was or wasnt broken beyond repair. So, in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it was fair and reasonable of D&G to agree to 
replace Mr Ms oven, rather than asking him to wait for another repair visit. But doing this 
doesnt compensate Mr M for the distress and inconvenience D&Gs handling of his claim 
caused him, as Ive described in my provisional decision. And thats why I think 
compensation of £350 in total is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay him £350 
compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim has caused 
him. If Domestic & General Insurance Plc has already paid Mr M the compensation of £55 it 
previously offered him, it can deduct that amount from this award.
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple*.
*If Domestic & General Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman