DRN-3715516
The complaint
Mr P complains about the issues he has experienced when trying to obtain information as 
part of a data subject access request (DSAR) from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr P initially requested a DSAR in person in August 2020 during a branch visit, where he felt 
there may be some inaccuracies in the information Barclays held. His request was for all 
relevant information including emails, system notes and calls.
During the same visit he also raised a complaint about another matter. The staff member at 
the branch told Mr P that she would raise the DSAR request on his behalf and would write to 
him regarding his complaint.
Having allowed extra time for the letter and the information he requested to arrive, due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, he decided to chase Barclays in November 2020. He initially did this by 
emailing the branch staff member. When he received no reply, in March 2021, he emailed 
Barclays Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He received an acknowledgement but no formal 
reply.
He later emailed the CEO again in June 2021 before bringing his complaint to this service.
Through various back-and-forth exchanges it transpired Barclays had responded to Mr P's 
initial complaint and his March 2021 email by letter. However, Mr P had never received 
these, so was unaware of what had been happening. He was further confused as later 
correspondence referred him back to these letters even though it was clear from his actions 
of chasing answers that he had never received them. It was also made clear that the DSAR 
request had not been registered and actioned.
Barclays issued a final response letter on 5 July 2021 upholding Mr P's complaint and 
offered £400 in compensation for this. They also logged a DSAR request to provide him with 
the information hed asked for. Mr P still wanted our involvement as he didn't feel this 
resolved things for him.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint, in summary she said:
Barclays failure to act on Mr Ps DSAR request when he visited the branch had caused 
significant delays. And although Barclays had upheld Mr Ps complaint and awarded £400 
for its failings, there had been further issues since they issued their final response that 
stemmed from the same issue and so she had decided to consider those as part of this 
complaint. 
Mr P had asked for the information to be adapted for him to large font, before being sent, as 
part of a reasonable adjustment, as he has failing eyesight. Barclays had provided three 
batches of information, in July, November and December 2021. The first two batches werent 
adapted at all, but as they were sent before 25 November 2021, when Barclays say they 
were aware of Mr Ps accessibility needs, she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly here.
The third batch had been adapted but not to the specification Mr P had asked for and so 
didnt meet his needs. There was also information missing as no call recordings were sent to 
Mr P even though he had specifically requested these. 
To put things right the investigator suggested Barclays:
Pay Mr P a further £250 bringing the compensation total to £650.
Call Mr P at a mutually agreed time to discuss the requirements of his DSAR- and 
raise a new request in accordance with this
Make every effort to ensure all future communication with Mr P is in large font.
Barclays accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr P did not accept her findings  Ive summarised his points:
he raised the issue of needing large font in August 2021, and that Barclays continued 
to send him correspondence in regular fonts even after 25 November 2021, when 
they say they were aware
he felt the original £400 compensation was for data protection failures
he considered the additional £250 to be significantly lower than average 
compensation for DSAR breaches, and he felt that there were numerous aggravating 
factors in his case based on Barclays repeat failings
he was willing to accept £500 in addition to the original £400 if Barclays would agree 
and settle within 14 days 
Shortly after the investigator issued her findings the case was reallocated to another 
investigator. He initially tried to mediate the outcome between Barclays and Mr P. He had 
seen that since the original investigators findings Mr P had raised a further complaint with 
Barclays in May 2022, stemming from the same issue and they had awarded £150. This 
brought the amount Barclays had already agreed to up to £800 and he suggested they 
increase this to £1000. Mr P agreed on the condition it was settled within seven days. 
Barclays didnt agree, they didnt believe an increase was warranted. So, the investigator 
issued more detailed findings. He included the May 2022 complaint as part of this one.
In summary his findings were:
The previous investigators findings of delays, failure to include relevant information and 
failure to adapt the information included in the DSAR were accepted by Barclays as was the 
award of £250 (in addition to the £400 already paid).
The £400 already paid was not in relation to a data breach it was related to the DSAR 
request. Although Mr P had thought there had been a data breach because statements had 
been sent to his sons address, this wasnt the case as the account the statements were for 
was a joint account with Mr P and his son.
Barclays had also accepted further failings in their final response letter of May 2022 and 
agreed to a further £150 compensation for the same issues. 
Mr P had approached Barclays again in July 2022 following the receipt of the new DSAR, 
saying much of the information was too small for him to read and he still hadnt received any call recordings. Barclays had responded to this telling him they had sent them tracked 
delivery through the postal service and that he should contact the postal service. The 
investigator didnt think this was fair and thought it was Barclays responsibility to either 
contact the postal service to pursue delivery or resend the calls to Mr P. He felt this was poor 
service from Barclays and exacerbated Mr Ps frustrations.
He considered extracts of the information sent to Mr P under the latest DSAR request. He 
found there were some things Barclays could have increased font size on but hadnt, and 
there were some documents where he agreed the font size was out of Barclays control, such 
as screenshots of their systems. Mr P had said the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
require DSARs to be sent in chronological order. The investigator said he had not been able 
to find any reference to this on the ICOs website nor from speaking to subject matter 
experts at this service and so he couldnt say Barclays had done anything wrong by not 
sending information in that way.
Overall to put things right he suggested that in addition to the £400 already paid, Barclays 
should compensate Mr P a further £600 in total, including £250 agreed to with original 
investigator and £150 offed in May 2022, bringing the total compensation to £1,000.
Mr P didnt agree. He reiterated previous points in argument to the findings. 
Barclays did agree but wanted to deduct two payments of £75 they had paid on other 
complaints Mr P had made to them, separate to those mentioned above.
The investigator put Barclays offer to Mr P, but he said he felt the two £75 awards were 
unrelated to this complaint and Barclays should now have to pay more than the £1,000 total, 
recommended by the investigator.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. And although Ive read and considered the 
whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific 
point, its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on 
it in order to reach the right outcome.
There is no dispute here between the parties about what has gone wrong, both investigators 
have explained this in detail in their findings and I see no benefit in doing so again here. In 
the main all thats left here to be settled is the compensation amount. 
However, before moving on to compensation, Id like to point out, its not clear at this stage if 
Mr P has since received the call recordings, so I think it would be fair for Barclays to check 
with Mr P if he now has all of the information he requested under the DSAR  and if not 
make sure they provide any outstanding information to him, in an accessible format (where 
possible).
CompensationIts clear that Mr P has been hugely frustrated by the lengthily process he has gone through 
to be able to obtain his information in an accessible format. And there have been repeated 
errors, of the same nature from Barclays which has compounded issues. 
In essence both parties have agreed at different stages to the compensation the investigator 
suggested. Mr P agreed to £1,000 when the investigator tried to mediate, with one of the 
conditions being that it was settled in seven days.  And Barclays agreeing much later but 
wanting to make deductions for other payments made, not related to the complaints 
considered under this case reference as mentioned above.
I know Mr P feels that Barclays should pay more but my role is not to punish the business 
but to fairly assess the impact the mistakes made by Barclays have had on him and to 
recommend a fair compensation amount for this. Overall, taking into account all of the 
mistakes made and the frustration caused by them I think £1,000 is a fair reflection of the 
impact caused to Mr P, so Im not going to recommend Barclays pay more. Having said that, 
I dont think its fair for Barclays to deduct money paid to Mr P in relation to other complaints 
that this service hasnt considered, under this complaint reference. 
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays should now:
Pay Mr P £1,000 compensation for the errors made in relation to his DSAR request. 
They are entitled to deduct any money already paid to him in relation to the 
complaints mentioned in this decision. But cannot deduct the two payments of £75 
made to him under separate complaints, not considered under this complaint 
reference number.
Ensure Mr P has received all of the information, in the correct format (where 
possible), he requested as part of the DSAR, including call recordings. They should 
make sure he is provided with anything that is missing from this.
Ensure that future correspondence is provided to Mr P in a format that is accessible 
to him as he has requested.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
I now require Barclays to put things right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before XXXDecember 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman