DRN-3209192
The complaint
Ms L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly handled her 
claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Ms L had an accident in her car on 7 September 2021. She contacted Admiral immediately 
and the car was towed to a recovery site nearby. She was informed that an approved 
repairer would be in touch that day to discuss a courtesy car.
Ms L called Admiral again on the same day to arrange the courtesy car and on this second 
call it informed her that a courtesy car would not be provided until it had agreed to authorise 
the repairs to her damaged car.
Admiral gave a timescale of up to 7 days for the repairs to be authorised. Ms L said this was 
too long to wait as she needed a car to get to work. 
Ms Ls car arrived at the garage that was to assess the damage on the evening of 8 
September 2021 and a courtesy car was authorised by Admiral for her on 9 September 
2021.
Ms L said she spent the two days between her accident and the car hire being authorised in 
complete stress and unable to perform her job properly as the communication about 
timescales from Admiral had not been clear.
Admiral agreed it had been unclear about the timescales to arrange a courtesy car during 
the initial claim call Ms L had made. It paid her £25 compensation for this.
Ms L would also like her policy excess of £300 to be refunded, as during the Covid pandemic 
she received an email advising that her excess would be waived.
As Ms L was not happy with Admiral she brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and did not think that 
Admiral had acted unfairly, and the terms and conditions are clear about when a courtesy 
car will be provided.
As Ms L is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to this complaint.
Delays in providing a  courtesy car 
Ms L complains that a courtesy car was not sorted out on the first day of her claim. 
Within the policy it states
A courtesy car will not be provided until the repairs have been authorised.
When Ms L made her initial claim call, Admirals claim handler implied she should expect a   
call from the garage that day. When Ms L called Admiral back it said that a courtesy car 
wouldnt be provided until the garage had inspected the damaged car.
Admiral agreed it had not been clear during her initial call and paid her £25 for this mistake. 
 
Ms L said the timeframes are not clear in the policy and therefore the terms are misleading.
I found there are no timeframes documented in the policy regarding courtesy cars. Ms L was 
entitled to a courtesy car only after the repairs had been authorised, and not immediately 
after her accident. I consider that that the terms and conditions of the policy are clear. 
Ms L had a courtesy car authorised two days after the accident. So I dont think Admiral has 
acted unfairly. It provided her with a courtesy car in line with the terms and conditions of her 
insurance policy and within a reasonable timescale.
Car delivered to garage late
Ms L initially complained that the car wasnt delivered to the repairer on the same day. 
I recognise Ms L needed a car to carry out her job and so she was eager to have the repairs 
to the damage to her car assessed and authorised. I understand that this will have been a 
stressful day for her. Miss L arranged cover on her parents car so she could carry out her 
job.
Within the policy it states
If the damage to your vehicle is covered and it cannot be driven safely from the accident 
site, we will:
 collect your vehicle from the accident site and deliver it to either an approved repairer, 
your home or a safe place of storage
Again, there are no timescales detailed within the policy. 
Admiral explained, in its letter to her - Plans must be made to collect the car and recover it 
to the garage. Our garages have 24 hours to do this. Ms L responded that Admiral had 
broken its own time frames as her car was not delivered to the garage within this time scale.
In this case the car was removed from the accident location and was taken into storage until 
a repairer was assigned by Admiral. 
The day after the accident the car was delivered to the authorised repairer. The actual timing 
meant this was slightly over 24 hours however, I still consider that this is reasonable as it 
was the next day and it did not delay the claim process or authorisation of a courtesy car.Excess not waived 
Admiral did offer an incentive to waive the claim excess to selected customers for a 
period of time. Ms L was included in these customers.
The incentive began on 5 January 2021 and came to an end on 2 April 2021. 
Ms Ls claim was on 7 September 2021 which is after this promotion had ended and 
therefore she was not entitled to it.
Therefore, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. I consider Admirals payment of £25 
compensation due to it being unclear about the timescales to arrange a courtesy car was 
fair. I do not require Admiral to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman