DRN-4053280
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt tell him that his car 
insurance policy wasnt going to renew.
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy that had renewed annually for a number of years, which was 
administered by Hastings  a broker. In July 2022 he was stopped by the police for driving 
without insurance. He contacted Hastings to understand what had happened and it said the 
policy had lapsed on 1 July 2022. And it said it had written to him on two occasions in 
June 2022 to say the policy wasnt going to renew. And it said it wrote to him again on 1 July 
2022 to say the policy had lapsed. It also said these communications had been sent by email 
and post.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said she could see that the emails Hastings had 
sent had bounced back as undelivered, so she said it was aware that Mr S hadnt received 
the emails. And she said shed expect Hastings to use two forms of communication to advise 
that a policy isnt going to renew. Given Hastings was aware the emails werent going 
through, she thought it should have taken further steps to notify Mr S that the policy wouldnt 
renew. So she thought it should do the following to put things right:
Write a letter of indemnity to Mr S to help him defend his court case for driving without 
insurance;
Refund all his expenses which have happened as a consequence of being uninsured; 
and
Pay £350 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused.
Hastings maintained it had acted fairly. It said Mr S had selected email as his chosen 
communication method and hadnt updated his email address. And it maintained that it had 
sent Mr S letters and a text message as well. 
The investigator still thought Hastings should have done more to contact Mr S once it 
became aware the email address it had was wrong. 
Hastings didnt respond to the investigators second opinion, so the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first set out that Im only considering the actions of Hastings in this case. It was the 
insurers decision  not Hastings  to not want to renew the insurance policy. So I cant 
consider whether it was fair to not renew the insurance policy or not. However, Hastings was 
the administrator of the insurance policy, so it needed to take reasonable steps to firstly 
ensure it made Mr S aware the policy wasnt going to renew and subsequently to let him 
know when it lapsed.
Hastings has said that, in addition to the emails it sent, it also sent Mr S a text message and 
letters. Mr S has consistently said he didnt receive any correspondence from Hastings about 
the renewal. This Service has asked Hastings a number of times to evidence that it sent the 
letters and text messages, but it hasnt done so. Ultimately I havent seen anything to show 
that Hastings used a different form of communication either before or once it became aware 
that that Mr S wasnt receiving the emails it was sending.
Generally, due to the significant risk of driving without insurance, I think its good industry 
practice for an insurer to use two different forms of communication when notifying a 
policyholder that it wouldnt be insuring them any long  either when cancelling an insurance 
policy or notifying them that they wouldnt be offering renewal. The same principle applies 
where a broker is acting on behalf of an insurer to communicate with the policyholder. But I 
think this is especially important where the insurer/broker is on notice the chosen method of 
communication isnt working  e.g. when emails it sends bounces back.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that Hastings did enough to notify Mr S that the insurer wasnt 
going to renew the insurance policy or that the policy had lapsed. And I havent seen 
anything to show that Mr S was or should have reasonably been aware that he wasnt 
insured. As a result of this, it seems Mr S unknowingly drove the car uninsured and, as a 
result, hes being prosecuted for driving without insurance.
Putting things right
Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr S has been stopped for driving without insurance due to Hastings 
actions. He has had his car impounded, incurred a fine of £300 and also had to pay costs to 
get his car released from the compound. I think Hastings should refund these costs, subject 
him demonstrating hes incurred them, plus 8% simple interest.
Mr S has also notified us that hes already attended court once and is due to attend again for 
a final hearing in July 2023. Hastings should also provide Mr S with a letter of indemnity to 
help him defend his court case for driving without insurance.
Finally, I think Hastings should pay Mr S some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered. The investigator thought Hastings should pay £350 but I think 
£500 is fairer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. Refund the £300 fine Mr S says he incurred for driving without insurance *;
2. Refund any costs Mr S incurred in having to get his car released from the impound  
including any amount he paid to get a temporary insurance policy to release the car *;
3. Write a letter of indemnity to Mr S to help him defend his court case for driving without 
insurance; and
4. Pay Mr S £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.* Hastings is entitled to ask Mr S to demonstrate that hes incurred these costs before it 
refunds them. But it should also add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from 
when he paid them until he gets them back (or two weeks after it requests evidence of Mr S 
being out of pocket whichever comes first). If Hastings thinks that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell him, how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman