DRN-3294600
The complaint
Mrs M complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs M was looking to invest and came across an advert on a social media platform 
after being referred to a broker by her son, who received a cash bonus for the 
referral. She checked the business website, looked at reviews and spoke with an 
existing customer who had made profit and had made a successful withdrawal. She 
spoke with an agent of the firm who came across as knowledgeable and genuine. 
She was able to invest and was not pressured to invest more.  In May 2020, Mrs M 
invested a total of £450. 
In June 2020, her son started to experience delays when trying to withdraw funds. 
Then calls with her were cancelled and the website was experiencing technical 
difficulties; a very short time later the website disappeared as did any messages on 
the social media platform. It was at this point Mrs M realised she had been the victim 
of a scam and reported it to Monzo. 
Monzo declined to reimburse Mrs M as it wasnt persuaded she had done enough to 
ensure she was paying a legitimate business. Our investigator upheld the complaint 
as she was satisfied Mrs M had a reasonable basis for belief in who she was paying 
and so she was due reimbursement under the Lending Standard Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). Monzo disagreed that Mrs M had a reasonable basis 
for belief and so it asked for a final decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
Although not a signatory Monzo has agreed to adhere to the CRM. The CRM says 
customers who are victims of authorised push payment fraud should be reimbursed 
except in limited circumstances. Those exceptions are:
oThe customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
oThe customer made the payment without reasonable basis for believing that:
oThe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay
oThe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
oThe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Monzo has explained it isnt relying on whether it provided an effective warning to 
Mrs M in deciding not to reimburse her. Rather it doesnt believe she had a 
reasonable basis for belief. So I have considered this.  
It isnt enough for Mrs M to believe she was paying a legitimate person/business for 
genuine goods or services, she had to have a reasonable basis for belief. 
Monzo has sought to argue that social media platforms arent used by genuine 
investment brokers. It argues the social media platform is not a place to find 
investment opportunities and that other people falling victim to a similar scam isnt 
enough to find any basis for belief was reasonable. It considers customers ought to 
educate themselves before investing and Mrs M ought to have checked whether the 
broker was regulated. It says the evidence relied on by Mrs M came from the 
scammers and she ought to have checked third party sites for reviews.  
I can see the business said it was a trading broker for people who only wanted to 
invest small sums. It isnt strictly true that legitimate businesses dont use social 
media platforms  they do, to advertise. So I dont think Mrs M being recommended a 
broker that advertised on social media ought to have alerted her to something being 
wrong. Her son had had some success with the broker, and Mrs M took steps to 
speak with another customer before investing, and theyd had a positive experience 
also. I accept that customer may have been planted, although thats far from certain, 
but that wouldnt have been known to Mrs M. She also looked at online reviews, 
checked the business website and spoke with staff. So she took several steps 
before investing. That Mrs M could have checked reviews with different sites isnt that 
persuasive  third party sites such as trust-pilot can also have fake reviews. 
Although accepting Mrs M could have done more  as can most customers - overall, 
Im not satisfied Monzo has established she didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
that she was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine goods or services. It 
follows that Im not persuaded the exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to 
Mrs M, such that Monzo can choose not to reimburse her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to:
Reimburse £450 to Mrs M (less any funds since recovered); and
It should add 8% simple interest per year to that sum from the date it declined to 
reimburse Mrs M, to the date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman