DRN-4285140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that esure Insurance Limited declined their storm damage claim.
Mr and Mrs R were joint policyholders for the buildings insurance underwritten by esure. A 
claims consultant raised the complaint on their behalf but, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
mainly to Mr R throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr R claimed under his policy after his flat felt roof came down during high winds. esure 
looked into his claim but it said the high winds didnt meet its definition of a storm. And if 
weather conditions other than a storm caused the damage, theres no cover under the 
policy. So, esure declined Mr Rs claim.
Mr R complained to esure. He provided an invoice from his roofer which confirmed the roof 
was in good condition prior to the high winds. However, esure said regardless of condition, 
there hadnt been a storm to cause any damage. So Mr R brought his complaint to us.
Initially, our investigator upheld the complaint. Although there were no storm conditions, she 
thought the accidental damage section would provide cover. But after reconsidering the 
policy, our investigator said the exclusion for damage caused by weather conditions meant 
there was no cover for damage caused by winds not meeting the storm definition. Therefore, 
our investigator said esure had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy.
Mr R didnt agree. He said thered been a storm two months earlier which mustve weakened 
the roof, allowing the subsequent high winds to remove it completely. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I realise theyll be 
disappointed, but Ill explain why Ive reached my decision.
The main issue of Mr Rs complaint is that esure hasnt accepted his claim for storm damage 
under his policy.
For a storm damage claim to succeed, the answer to all three of the following questions 
would need to be yes. 
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Was there a storm?
The policy clearly defines a storm. Theres no dispute that weather records show high winds 
that dont meet the storm definition. So, based on this alone, esure has declined the claim in 
line with the policy.
But Mr R said there was a storm two months or so earlier, and that mustve weakened the 
roof such that lesser winds caused the final damage. esure said if the damage had 
happened during an earlier storm, Mr R wouldve been aware of it sooner. 
Ive thought carefully about this alongside the terms and conditions of the policy. To make a 
successful claim under the storm damage section, Mr R would need to show that there was 
a storm and that it caused damage. However, the evidence shows that the most recent 
storm conditions were two months earlier. I think it's reasonable that esure declined the 
claim on the basis that Mr R was unable to show his claim was for damage caused by a 
storm.
As the answer to the first question is no, Im satisfied esure declined Mr Rs claim fairly 
under the storm damage section.
Accidental Damage
esure also looked at whether Mr Rs claim was covered under the accidental damage 
section.
The policy defines accidental damage as:
Single, sudden, unexpected and physical damage, which was not deliberate.
The policy provides cover as follows:
We will pay for Accidental Damage to Your Buildings or Contents as a direct result of a 
single, unexpected and unintended event 
If, as Mr R says, the damage happened during the high winds subsequent to the storm, then 
it follows that the damage was not caused by a single event.
The policy also has the following exclusions:
We will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting from or consisting of:
damage caused by weather conditions
As the high winds didnt meet the storm definition, esure reasonably classed them as 
weather conditions. As such, the damage caused by the high winds falls within the overriding 
policy exclusion of damage caused by weather conditions.
In summary, Im satisfied that esure considered Mr Rs claim under the relevant sections and 
declined it fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions.I wont be asking esure to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman