DRN-3771190
The complaint
Ms W complains about the response she got from Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance) (HPF) after she raised a complaint about goods and services she 
bought with a fixed sum loan HPF provided. Shes also unhappy about the application of 
interest and charges to her account and the way that refunds were dealt with.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms W ordered a new kitchen from a third party supplier (that Ill call W). Ms 
W paid a deposit and took out a loan with HPF to finance the balance. It was important to Ms 
W that the kitchen would be delivered and installed before Christmas. She says W assured 
her this would happen and she wouldnt have placed the order and taken out the finance if it 
hadnt been guaranteed. The kitchen was due to be delivered in the first week of December 
and installed a week or so later but W said the installer (who Ill call E) was ill and installation 
might be delayed until the New Year. Ms Ws partner (who Ill refer to as Mr M) contacted E 
who said he wasnt unwell and he could do the job before Christmas so they paid him 
£1,700. to carry out the work. 
Ms W feels W wasnt honest about problems with the fitter and let them down by failing to 
arrange installation as agreed. She also says some items were missing and faulty and W 
didnt help when they complained. In addition she was upset when HPF started to collect 
monthly payments by direct debit in September 2020. She wasnt expecting this as her 
dispute with W was unresolved and she contacted HPF shortly after asking for a full refund 
and compensation.
HPF says the loan was activated in August 2020 so it started collecting payments a month 
later (in line with the terms and conditions) and agreed to investigate when Ms W got in 
touch to say she was unhappy - but explained that she remained liable for payments. HPF 
contacted W who said the kitchen was delivered and Ms W hadnt notified any missing 
items. W accepted she shouldnt have to pay for installation (because she paid the fitter 
direct) but said it had tried to contact her about this and received no response. 
On 16 December 2020 HPF told Ms W that the cost of installation would be removed from 
the finance and she should contact W so this could be processed and notify W of any 
missing items so these could be taken into account. W invited Ms W into store to sort things 
out but Ms W had lost faith in W and that didnt happen. In March 2021 HPF removed 
installation costs from the loan and adjusted interest so approximately £2,790 was removed 
from the balance owing. Ms W remained unhappy about faulty and missing parts (among 
other things) and she wanted the entire kitchen removed and the finance cancelled. 
HPF sent a final response on 10 March 2021 to say it was closing the complaint as 
information requested hadnt been provided and the kitchen was supplied and should be 
paid for. HPF told Ms W that she had the right to refer the matter to our service and offered 
to suspend payments for a few months so she could consider her options. 
Ms W brought her complaint to us and said (in summary) misrepresentations were made at 
the outset, W breached the agreement to supply and install the kitchen, she wanted faulty 
items/items ordered but not delivered to be removed along with compensation, she thought 
HPF was wrong to take payments in 2020 and 2021 and interest and charges werent 
applied properly.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld initially as there wasnt 
enough evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by W and she was satisfied 
payments were adjusted and installation costs (plus interest) were removed - which seemed 
fair. Ms W disagreed as she was unaware of any amount owing and believes interest and 
charges were added to her account unfairly. She thinks its unacceptable, for example, that 
she was charged late payment fees when she hadnt had a full response to her complaint.
The investigator looked at the account history. She was satisfied that HPF wasnt required to 
put payments on hold while this service investigated - so missed payments in 2021 could be 
charged for. But, she thought the complaint should be upheld, in part, because HPF agreed 
to refund two payments in 2020 but only provided one - telling Ms W to reclaim the second 
via the direct debit guarantee (DDG). The investigator considered this confused matters and 
resulted in Ms W receiving three refunds not two which caused arrears - and it wasnt 
surprising that Ms W didnt realise what had happened. She recommended HPF should 
remove one monthly payment from the overall balance owed to put things right
HPF objected to providing a refund or compensation. It said (in summary) it agreed to refund 
two payments as a goodwill gesture and told Ms W only one would be refunded direct and 
she could claim the second via her bank under the DDG. HPF refunded one payment but Ms 
W went on to claim two back via the DDG which caused one months arrears and it wrote to 
Ms W about this but she didnt respond. HPF then rescheduled payments and/or put 
payments on hold (several times) between October 2020 and August 2021, as a goodwill 
gesture, to give Ms W time to resolve things. In addition installation costs were removed 
reducing the amount owed, interest was adjusted appropriately and HPF told Ms W it would 
start taking payments again in August 2021. Payments were missed in September and 
October that year however (because the direct debit instruction was cancelled) which 
caused further arrears and late charges were applied to the account.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She didnt think HPF had explained 
things properly in 2020. She remained of the view that one payment should be refunded. 
HPF didnt agree and the matter was referred to an ombudsman for a decision. Having 
considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I thought it was 
fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted 
to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2022. 
Ive set out what I decided provisionally, and why, below (in italics) and this forms part of my 
final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms W brings this complaint about HPF to our service because shes unhappy with goods 
and/or services that she paid for with a loan that HPF provided. I can see Ms W feels 
strongly about what happened and shes disappointed with the service she got from W, in 
particular. I note she asked (in the letter she sent us) for a senior person at W to investigate 
and provide a full apology, amongst other things so I want to be clear from the outset about 
my remit here.
A lender, like HPF, may be held equally liable with a supplier (like W) for breach of contract and misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), in certain 
circumstances. I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and, when considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take 
taking relevant law into account (among other things). Im satisfied that section 75 is relevant 
here. Its not my role to apply the law however - only a court can do that. Instead, Im looking 
at whether HPF has taken appropriate steps in response to Ms Ws complaint. In doing so, 
Ive considered whether W made misrepresentations and/or there were breaches of the 
agreement that Ms W had with W. But its not within my power to require W itself to take any 
particular steps and/or provide a refund or compensation.
Misrepresentation
Ms W has explained that she considers misrepresentations were made by W at the outset. 
To be specific, she says W guaranteed that her kitchen would be supplied and installed 
before Christmas 2019. For me to find that misrepresentations were made, Id need to be 
satisfied that W told Ms W something untrue and she reasonably relied on this when she 
agreed to buy the kitchen and take out the finance. However Im unable to hold HPF 
responsible for things that W may have said to Ms W after that  or any failings in Ws 
general customer service or complaints process.
I cant be certain what was said exactly when Ms W placed her order. Ive seen a copy of the 
order itself and the terms and conditions of sale. As I understand it, the installation was to be 
carried out by one of Ws approved fitters under separate terms and conditions. I havent 
seen these and Ill say more about installation further in this decision.
I cant see anything in the sale paperwork to show that W guaranteed the kitchen would be 
installed before Christmas. The sale terms and conditions say (as regards delivery) Our aim 
is to deliver your order within the published lead-time current at the date you placed your 
order. Please check with any member of staff for details of such lead-time. We will do all we 
reasonably can to meet the date agreed with you for delivery. In the case of unforeseen 
circumstances beyond our reasonable control preventing us meeting that date we will 
contact you to agree an alternative date.
Im satisfied that W drew Ms Ws attention to these terms specifically in an email sent the 
same day she placed her order. In the same email W confirmed that it was trying to get 
installers who could do the job before Christmas. I dont think this sounds like a firm 
commitment that the kitchen would definitely be installed before Christmas. I also find it 
unlikely, on balance, that W would guarantee an installation date when it doesnt guarantee 
to deliver by a specified date  given the kitchen would need to be delivered first. I think its 
more likely than not the parties agreed to try for pre-Christmas delivery and installation. Ive 
seen reference to this agreed lead time but Im not persuaded thats the same as a 
guarantee and I cant reasonably conclude that there was a misrepresentation in this 
respect.
Breach of contract
I can see the loan included the cost of both supply and installation initially. Theres no 
dispute that Ms W subsequently engaged and paid the installer direct and this element was 
removed from the finance. And that means I cant fairly hold HPF liable (under section 75) 
for any issues arising out of the installation work itself (because the loan didnt pay for it).
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that there was a term in the contract 
between Ms W and W that guaranteed the kitchen would be delivered and installed before 
Christmas. I accept the parties agreed they would work towards this timescale. And I think 
its understandable Ms W was unhappy to be told the kitchen couldnt be installed when she wanted - given the lead time agreed.
The circumstances around this are somewhat unusual. W said it was unable to meet this 
timescale - as regards to installation - due to unforeseen circumstances, as the appointed 
fitter was ill. I appreciate Ms W thinks W wasnt telling the truth  because the fitter told Mr M 
that wasnt true and he could take on the work. I cant be certain what happened. But Im 
satisfied the kitchen was delivered in early December and Id expect W to want it installed  
enabling the loan to be activated and the funds released. So its difficult to see why W would 
seek to mislead Ms W about that. I cant rule out the possibility that E may have had his own 
reasons for accepting the job direct.
In any event, even if I were to accept that W had breached the agreement by failing to 
supply an installer before Christmas, I cant see that Ms W incurred any financial loss as a 
result. Im satisfied the work was carried out in time for Christmas - for about £800 less than 
the sum originally agreed  and HPF has removed installation costs from the loan itself. I 
think its understandable Ms W decided to pay for the kitchen to be installed separately. And 
I realise that must have been really stressful and frustrating for her and Mr M. But, I think 
that was her decision to make - and parties are expected to mitigate their losses in this sort 
of situation.
Ms W also told us that some items ordered werent supplied and others are faulty. On the 
information I have at the moment, I think its reasonable to assume that there was only one 
missing item  a splashback (based on the chronology Ms W provided). Ive checked the 
original order which contains two splashbacks so I accept these were ordered. However it 
looks as if at least one splashback was provided  I can see what looks like a splashback in 
photographs of the kitchen that Ms W sent us. And Ms W also refers (in her chronology) to a 
poor seal between the splashback and the worktop. If only one of the two splashbacks 
ordered was supplied - or Ms W had to source and pay for the splashback I can see herself 
 she should let me know in response to this provisional decision and provide any relevant 
paperwork.
Ms W says other parts are defective  a tap is faulty and theres a broken oven seal and the 
oven door has moisture between the glass panels. As far as its relevant, the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says goods supplied should be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply  and (broadly speaking) any faults found within six months are taken to have been 
present at the outset, unless theres evidence to the contrary. In addition the CRA provides 
that a supplier like W is usually entitled to have one opportunity chance to rectify faults.
Im not sure when the faults above first appeared. I havent seen the original complaint to W 
and I cant see any reference to faulty parts in the letter Ms W sent HPF near the end of 
October 2020. HPF has supplied customer notes which seem to be reasonably detailed and 
consistent with events (so I think its reasonable to take whats recorded there into account). 
Im satisfied that HPF asked Ms W to provide more information about missing items and 
faulty items - such as photographs - but this wasnt received. I can see HPF also offered to 
re-open the complaint if such evidence was provided  which seems reasonable - but Mr M 
said they wanted a final response in order to refer the matter to our service.
Ms W has sent us some photographs of the tap and oven but I cant tell from these when or 
how faults occurred. Im not persuaded, on the current evidence, that there are sufficient fair 
and reasonable grounds to find issues present are likely to have been there at the point of 
supply (meaning the goods were of unsatisfactory quality). I cant reasonably exclude the 
impact of wear and tear over time and/or the possibility that faults present were due to 
installation. I note Ms W also refers to a poor joint in the worktop and the seal from the 
backsplash that has come away. I think those sound like installation problems rather than 
faulty goods. And installation work is not something I can consider here  as the loan didnt include that cost.
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not presently persuaded that theres been a breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation here that caused Ms W to lose out financially. Im satisfied 
this kitchen was supplied and I dont have enough evidence to fairly conclude that parts are 
missing or faulty. Even if I accepted that the items Ms W refers to are missing or of 
unsatisfactory quality at the outset, I dont think thats sufficient to require HPF to cancel this 
loan, remove the kitchen and provide a full refund  which is the outcome Ms W requested 
from HPF. I consider that would be disproportionate in all the circumstances - not every 
breach of contract entitles a party to end an agreement and receive a full refund. And, as I 
explained above, a supplier like W would, in any event, generally be entitled to have the 
chance to put things in this situation.
Payments and refunds in 2020
Ive also considered what Ms W says about HPFs administration of the loan account. It 
looks as if shes unhappy that payments were taken by HPF in September and October 
2020. She told us she wasnt expecting this  as the contract with W hadnt been fulfilled as 
agreed. Im satisfied the loan agreement says payments would commence one month after 
either the date of this agreement, or, if later, the date of supply of the goods/services. We will 
tell you in writing the date on which the first monthly payment will become due. So, I think it 
was open to HPF to take the first direct debit in or around January 2020. It looks as if W 
didnt actually activate the account until about seven months later, in August 2020. Im not 
sure why that was. It may have been due to outstanding issues  W says it tried to contact 
Ms W in December 2019 and February 2020 about removing installation costs. Or it may be 
been due to the pandemic - or a combination of both.
I appreciate Ms W says she heard nothing from W throughout this time  even though 
marketing emails reached her account. And the mobile number W quoted isnt hers (and her 
number hasnt changed). I can see Ms W had at least two different email addresses. W and 
HPF both used the same email address so I think that must have been the one she provided 
initially. And I cant explain why she would have received some communications but not 
others. According to HPFs contact notes  Ms W was sent a welcome email on 26 August 
2020 to say payments were about to start. Im satisfied the kitchen had been supplied at this 
stage and Ms W doesnt seem to have reported any problems to HPF - so I cant fairly find 
HPF made an error here. 
Ms W contacted HPF around this time and, on receipt of her section 75 claim, HPF said it 
would investigate. It also offered, as a goodwill gesture, to refund the two payments already 
taken and, in effect, freeze the account for a few months. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. I appreciate Ms W says she had no explanation about what was happening 
in terms of payments and arrears at this time. But, looking at the contact notes and 
correspondence from the relevant time, Im satisfied that HPF made it fairly clear that one 
payment would be refunded by HPF and Ms W could obtain the second refund via the DDG 
from her bank. I can see HPF refunded one payment on 4 November 2020 and Ms W 
acknowledges this (in her chronology of events)  so I dont think she was confused about 
that. She also confirms that HPF said (on 17 November 2020) she should claim the second 
payment back via her bank. Its not clear however why Ms W went on to reclaim two 
payments via the DDG on 18 November.
Claiming a refund via the DDG means the refund would come from the bank initially and 
then be reclaimed (by the bank) from HPF. Im satisfied that Ms W made two payments but 
received three back from HPF  and she received the additional payment because she 
claimed two via the DDG, even though she knew that HPF had already refunded one. The 
additional refund claimed caused the loan to fall one month in arrears and I cant fairly criticise HPF for that.
I appreciate Ms W may have been somewhat confused when HPF sent a notice of arrears in 
early December 2020. I think this was probably generated automatically  because two 
payments were (technically) missed. But I can see HPF wrote to Ms W the next day 
explaining that the account had been frozen and payments were re-scheduled. So, I think 
she should have been reasonably aware what was happening. Im satisfied, in any event, 
that no charges were applied at this time  so Ms W didnt lose out financially. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that HPF reported adverse information to her credit file either - about this 
one month arrears. And I cant fairly find HPF should provide a refund or compensation in 
this regard.
Other arrears, interest and charges
I think HPF explained what was happening fairly clearly in December 2020 and I consider 
the steps it took at this stage  refunding and rescheduling payments  seem fair. This 
allowed Ms W some time to either provide more information to HPF to support her section 75 
claim or sort things out with W direct. Im satisfied that W had acknowledged that Ms W 
didnt have to pay for installation and explained shed still need to pay for the goods supplied 
by the start of 2021. It looks as if W then suggested the original loan could be cancelled if a 
new finance agreement was taken out - to pay for supply only. But Mr M said Ms W didnt 
want to enter into a new loan agreement.
Ms W had the use of the kitchen for some time by this stage and I think she should 
reasonably have appreciated shed need to pay something for that. I realise Ms W was very 
upset with W about what happened and she feels HPF should have done more to help. But, 
as far as I can see, HPF made efforts over several months to try and resolve matters to her 
satisfaction  this included investigating the section 75 claim, requesting additional 
information and removing installation costs from the loan as well as suspending and re- 
scheduling payments.
I can see HPF also agreed to suspend payments until May 2021 - as a further goodwill 
gesture  and it extended this by another three months in May. HPFs notes indicate that Ms 
W was then notified that payments would recommence in August 2021. I appreciate Ms W 
had referred the matter to our service in the meantime - and she feels its unfair she had to 
pay while the matter was being investigated. However, as the investigator explained, HPF 
isnt required to suspend payments just because a complaint has been brought to our 
service. Im satisfied that Ms W remained liable to meet the payments due under the loan. 
And payments requested in September, October and November 2021 (and possibly later) 
were not made because the direct debit was cancelled. It follows I cant fairly find it was 
wrong of HPF to apply late charges and take steps to recover arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that (based on the evidence Id seen) I wasnt 
persuaded that HPF has treated Ms W unfairly or acted unreasonably overall and I wasnt 
inclined to uphold this complaint. I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and 
let me have any further comments or new information by 20 October 2022. I said Id look at 
all the evidence available after that date and make my final decision. Both parties responded 
and they have nothing further to add. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my 
provisional conclusions in the circumstances. I remain of the view that there arent enough 
fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint and Im unable to reasonably require HPF to pay compensation or do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman