DRN-3908956
The complaint
Ms T  complains that a used car supplied by Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) under a finance 
agreement was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Ms T acquired the car in September 2021 under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) she took 
out with BMF. About a year later, in August 2022, the car wouldnt start and she called the 
AA. The AA technician said there was a problem with a connection to the engine control unit 
(ECU) which was corroded and a pin had snapped off the ECU terminal. A temporary repair 
was carried out and Ms T complained to BMF who asked her to get an independent report. 
Ms T engaged the RAC to check the car in September 2022. The inspector confirmed that 
the ECU had corroded connection pins and a new ECU may be needed as internal damage 
could have occurred. The inspector also noted the engine management warning lamp (EML) 
was illuminated which may be linked to the corrosion but considered this should be 
investigated further and couldnt say, based on the corrosion present, when this fault 
developed.   
BMF says the car was serviced just before supply, this issue wasnt present then and neither 
of the reports confirm that the car was faulty when Ms T got it. As Ms T had the car for more 
than six months when the problem occurred, BMF considers its for her to show this issue 
was present when the car was supplied but she hasnt done so and it rejected the complaint. 
Ms T didnt think that was fair so she referred the matter to our service. She believes the car 
was probably faulty when she got it and BMF should pay for repairs and compensation. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. He was satisfied the car has a fault, based 
on the independent reports which found corrosion on the ECU terminal. He acknowledged 
the issue appeared around eleven months after supply, when the car had about 19,000 
miles on the clock, but he was satisfied water was found where its not expected, around this 
component. He accepted theres nothing to explain how the moisture got there  theres no 
indication that other parts, such as seals, may have failed  or how long it wouldve taken 
before the corrosion became apparent, so its difficult to be certain about when and what 
caused the issue exactly. However, considering the age and mileage of the car at supply 
and when it broke down, hes satisfied it wasnt reasonably durable and its more likely than 
not the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
The investigator recommended BMF should refund the cost of repairs, the RAC report and 
any monthly payments made in full, for the time the car was off the road until it is repaired, 
plus 8% interest. He accepted Ms T was unable to use the car from August 2022 because of 
the fault and she was put to some trouble and upset as a result of being supplied with this 
faulty car. He found it was fair for BMF to pay her £125 compensation to reflect that and 
remove any related adverse information from her credit file. 
BMF didnt agree and said (in summary):-
when a fault is discovered after 6 months, its the consumers responsibility to provide 
proof that this was present at the point of supply;
Ms T arranged an RAC inspection and she had a previous report from the AA but 
neither shows that this issue was there at the point of supply - the RAC report states 
that the EML appears to have been a recent fault and the technician was unable to 
say when this fault developed; 
if the corrosion was present at the point of supply, this would have been noticed at 
the last service in September 2021;
the corrosion shown in the photo is green which doesnt mean water has got into the 
ECU as the investigator suggests and neither the RAC or AA reports say water 
caused the problem - the RAC report states that corrosion to the ECU connection 
(by the battery) may require a new ECU as internal damage may have occurred. This 
must be investigated further and rectified as necessary and BMF thinks the green 
corrosion may have been caused by a leak in the battery terminal; 
the investigator based his findings on the balance of probability, this wasnt impartial 
and he recommends BMF should pay for repairs but no estimates have been 
provided.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He acknowledged the fault appeared 
more than six months after supply but he thought it was difficult for Ms T to prove with 
certainty that this was present at the outset, in these particular circumstances. He was 
satisfied however that she had a reasonable expectation the ECU  a part which would 
reasonably be expected to last the lifetime of the car - would last longer than it did. 
Ms T sent further information including details and the cost of repair work which had been 
undertaken. The investigator sent this on to BMF noting that work was carried out to the 
ECU and wiring only, the battery wasn't replaced - suggesting there was nothing wrong with 
this part. He accepted specks of liquid can be seen on images supplied but he thought the 
reference in the RAC report to by the battery was intended to specify the location of the 
terminal affected (because one image shows two terminals) and did not suggest that 
moisture present had come from the battery. Hes satisfied the AA report doesnt suggest the 
battery was leaking, the third party garage (TPG) observed the battery seemed in good 
condition and both the AA report and the TPG refer to water ingress. He remained of the 
view the car was likely of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and BMF should take 
the steps recommended to put things right. 
BMF asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. It says the various reports dont show 
that this issue was present at the point of supply and, if the corrosion had been there then, it 
would have been noticed at the last service in September 2021.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here - I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure the parties that Ive taken everything thats been said and sent to us into 
account. If I dont address every point thats been made its not because I havent considered 
it. In this decision Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. Im satisfied that I dont 
need to comment on every single argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  
and it reflects the informal nature of our dispute resolution service, which is a free alternative 
to the courts. I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall. But, I must 
have regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice, at the relevant time. Im 
satisfied the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here. BMF supplied the car under 
a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car was of satisfactory quality at the outset, 
under the CRA. 
satisfactory quality
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances, but it 
is generally considered reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at the point of supply 
into account in the case of a used car. The car Ms T got here was around three years old, 
cost about £15,000 and had around 15,000 miles on the clock at the point of supply. I think a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect it to meet the same standard as a brand new car - which 
is reflected in the lower price paid - but theres also a reasonable expectation that parts 
would last a reasonable time and the vehicle would be fairly durable. 
Mr E had this car for nearly a year and covered round 4,000 miles when it failed to start in 
August 2022. There seems to be no dispute as to the cause - Ive seen two reports prepared 
by the AA and the RAC and a vehicle health check (VHC) from a third party garage  that 
identify corrosion to the ECU connection and a missing pin. 
I understand BMF considers its for Ms T to prove that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied as this problem appeared more than six months after that. And I accept 
19(14) of the CRA says if goods do not conform to the contract (are of unsatisfactory 
quality - for our purposes here) within six months of supply then theyre taken not to have 
conformed at the point of supply. The CRA goes on to say (under Section 19(15)) that the 
presumption under s19(14) doesnt apply however if its established that goods did conform 
to the contract at the outset - or its application is incompatible with the nature of the goods 
or with how they failed to conform with the contract. 
I think its possible for faults that appear within six months to prove not to have been there at 
the outset sometimes - and issues that arise after six months can turn out to have been 
present at supply on other occasions. In this case, Ive considered all of the available 
evidence about the particular part that failed in order to decide whats most likely. 
Im satisfied that moisture wouldnt usually be present where it was found here. For the same 
reasons as the investigator, Im not persuaded the problem was a leaking battery or the 
presence of battery acid. I agree that the reference in the RAC report to corrosion (by the 
battery) means adjacent or next to and this doesnt suggest the battery was the cause. I 
havent got any clear evidence about the exact source of the moisture but I have no reason 
to think it was present as the result of something Ms T did or didnt do. I think its more likely 
the car has a fault which allowed moisture to penetrate where it shouldnt have and, over 
time, this caused the corrosion and damage found. 
Im not persuaded that any corrosion in this location must be fairly recent or it would, as BMF 
suggests, have been noticed during the service at just over 15,000 miles carried out in 
September 2021. Im satisfied the relevant part isnt a service or wear and tear item. It 
wouldnt ordinarily be expected to fail in the normal course of events - it should reasonably 
be expected to last for the lifetime of the vehicle. 
I accept the RAC report refers to the EML having only just come on but Im not persuaded 
that means the fault was recent. I think its more likely the water ingress (which was 
identified by both the AA technician who saw the car when it broke down and the TPG that 
carried out repairs) and the corrosion caused took place over time until it reached a point where it affected the cars performance. I cant be certain when the ingress started but Im 
satisfied this shouldnt have happened. I dont think a reasonable person would expect the 
ECU to fail at the time and in the way this one has. And, on balance overall, I find this car 
was probably of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
Putting things right
I understand the car has been repaired now. Ive seen an invoice from the TPG dated 
November 2022 that sets out the work undertaken costing over £1,000. I dont think that 
seems unreasonable. And Im satisfied BMF had the opportunity to comment further on this 
but it hasnt raised any objections to either the work undertaken or the cost. 
Like the investigator, I think its reasonable Ms T should have the cost of these repairs 
refunded including any relevant diagnostic tests. And Im satisfied that she wouldnt have 
had to pay for the RAC report if she hadnt been supplied with this faulty car so I think she 
should have the cost of that back as well. 
The car broke down on 21 August 2022 as a result of the ECU problem and I find it 
understandable that Ms T was unable to have it repaired for several months. I think its 
reasonable for BMF to refund any monthly payments made (in full) for the time the car was 
off the road  to reflect her loss of use. And I consider it is fair BMF should also pay 8% 
interest on any refunds and rectify Ms Ts credit file. 
Im satisfied Ms T likely experienced some upset and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with this faulty car  she had to arrange for it to be inspected and repaired, for 
example. And I find it is reasonable for BMF to pay her £125 compensation to reflect that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd to:-
1. refund the cost of repairs (including any diagnostic tests) as well as the cost of any 
experts report that Ms T paid for, on proof that this cost was incurred;
2. refund any monthly payments made from the date the car broke down until it was 
repaired;  
3. pay 8% simple interest a year on any refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
4. pay Ms T £125 compensation for distress and inconvenience and remove any 
adverse information recorded about the finance from her credit file. 
If BMF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman