DRN-3854868
The complaint
Ms M complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Service Limited cancelled her motor 
insurance policy. She wants the cancellation marker removed and compensation.
What happened
Ms M took out a policy through Somerset Bridge via an online comparison site and it sent 
her details of how to access her online account. It sent Ms M a welcome pack and requests 
for documents to validate her policy. But Ms M said she didnt receive these. Somerset 
Bridge then cancelled her policy and applied a cancellation charge. Ms M then took out a 
new policy directly through Somerset Bridge and it refunded her £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But Ms M remained unhappy as she was still out of pocket due to the cancellation.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Somerset Bridge had sent the requests to Ms Ms email account. He thought it had 
reasonably warned her of the potential cancellation. So he thought it had fairly and 
reasonably cancelled her policy. 
Ms M replied that Somerset Bridge knew she hadnt accessed her online account and so 
hadnt seen its emails. She said it tried to text her, but this failed as she hadnt given it a 
mobile number. She said Somerset Bridge didnt try her landline or to email her directly 
except when the policy had cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this matter has caused Ms M a lot of stress and frustration. I can also see that 
shes spent considerable effort and time in putting together her evidence so that we can 
understand her position. And Ive considered this carefully. Im satisfied that Ms M didnt 
intend for her policy to be cancelled as she had already paid her premium in full. 
Somerset Bridge maintains that it cancelled Ms Ms policy correctly when she didnt respond 
to its requests for validation documents. Ms M said she didnt receive any of these requests. 
So Ive looked at the evidence to see if Somerset Bridge did send them and if it took 
adequate steps to ensure that Ms M was aware that her policy would cancel. 
This service believes that insurers and brokers should take reasonable steps to ensure that 
policy holders are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious 
consequences for them and expose them to possible court action.
Somerset Bridge said it sent Ms M an email to direct her to her online account and then 
provided login details. Ms M said she received the first email, but not the latter. But she 
didnt query this as she said she only accessed her policy if she needed to make a claim. 
This was unfortunate, as if Ms M had checked her policy details she would have seen the 
request for validation documents. 
Somerset Bridge said it then sent Ms M two emails to prompt her to provide the validation 
documents. Ms M said these went to her online account, but not to her email address. 
However, whilst I can see that the letters were posted on Ms Ms online account, I can also 
see from a screenshot provided by Somerset Bridge that the letters were also sent to her by 
email as attachments. Somerset Bridge had Ms Ms correct email address. She received 
later emails from it. And so I cant say that these emails werent sent to her. 
Ms M thought that Somerset Bridge should be able to provide copies of date stamped emails 
sent to her email address. But I dont think this is reasonable as the emails were sent from 
its system and the screenshot provides a record that they were sent. 
I can see that Somerset Bridge accepts that its attempts to text Ms M failed as there wasnt a 
mobile number on the policy. But I cant see that Somerset Bridge was aware of this at the 
time as the system is automated. Its procedure is to rely on emails and texts and so I cant 
say that it should also have written to Ms M or called her landline. And I dont think it treated 
Ms M differently to any other customer. 
One chaser letter was emailed after 14 days and one after 21 days warning of the impending 
cancellation. And then the policy cancelled. I can see that Somerset Bridge sent the final 
cancellation email to Ms Ms email account. But she didnt notice this until a month later 
when she received a refund, and she then called Somerset Bridge to query it. 
So I think Somerset Bridge made reasonable attempts to contact Ms M to request the 
validation documents. As she didnt provide these by the stated deadline, I think it then 
correctly cancelled her policy and charged her its cancellation fee as set out in its terms of 
business. So I cant say that Somerset Bridge has done anything wrong or needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman