DRN-4176764
The complaint
Ms E complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Advantage Finance Limited (Advantage) and that the car was misrepresented to 
her.
 
What happened
In August 2021 Ms E acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage. 
Ms E said she experienced problems with the car soon after acquiring it and had been 
receiving charges as the car wasnt Ultra Low Emission Zone (ULEZ) compliant. 
Ms E complained to Advantage in August 2022 about the faults and that ULEZ information 
hadnt been provided before she acquired the vehicle. Ms E said she wanted to return the 
vehicle as she couldnt afford it. 
Advantage sent Ms E their final response to her complaint in August 2022. They said Ms E 
needed to check the car met her needs, and there was no obligation to tell her about ULEZ 
requirements before she bought the car. They said they hadnt received any evidence of the 
faults, but if Ms E were to provide this, theyd consider it, and they gave her options to exit 
the agreement early. 
Unhappy with this, Ms E brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
shed had to pay to fix the car herself and should have been told about ULEZ requirements 
before she entered the agreement. Ms E was also unhappy with the figures provided in 
respect of early settlement, but these were resolved, and Ms E decided to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. 
Our investigator gave his view that the invoices Ms E had provided for work shed had done 
were dated around a year after she acquired the car and appeared to relate to general wear 
and tear of the vehicle. So, he thought it was of satisfactory quality when supplied and didnt 
ask Advantage to do anything further. 
Our investigator said there was no obligation for the dealer or Advantage to inform Ms E 
about ULEZ or the status of the car unless she specifically asked for it, and he was satisfied 
that she hadnt done so. So, he didnt think the car had been misrepresented to Ms E. 
Ms E didnt agree. She said shed only ever driven petrol cars and had no knowledge of 
ULEZ, and someone shouldve told her about this. She said the repairs shed had to 
complete werent general maintenance. Ms E asked that Advantage honour an offer theyd 
made to write off the balance following voluntary termination of the agreement. 
Our investigator asked Advantage if theyd honour this offer, but they confirmed it had been 
made as a gesture of goodwill and had now been withdrawn. Our investigator didnt ask 
them to do anything more. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Oodle as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £6,000. It was nine years old 
and had travelled around 103,000 miles at the time of supply. 
When a person acquires a used car like Ms E its reasonable to say that the expectation of 
quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for 
the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The 
chance of encountering an issue sooner, is higher. 
Ive seen evidence that Ms E had work completed on the car in December 2021 for a bulb, 
June 2022 for replacement tyres, September 2022 for the diesel particulate filter sensor and 
regeneration and a turbo pipe. Ms E has also said that she had to replace an air mat sensor 
early on in the agreement. 
Ive considered the repairs that Ms E has carried out to the vehicle, and they all relate to 
parts that I think a reasonable person would expect to be subject to wear over time and may 
need replacing or repairing at some point. 
I think, that at nine years old and having covered around 103,000 miles, Ms Es car was 
around the age when a reasonable person might expect that some wear related, or even 
relatively serious repairs may be needed. As a result, I find that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Ms E, and Advantage arent responsible for the cost of the 
repairs. 
Ms E has said that she wasnt aware of ULEZ requirements at the time she acquired the car, 
having only had petrol cars in the past, and she should have been informed of this. 
In order to say that the car was misrepresented to Ms E, Id need to be satisfied that there 
was a false statement of fact, and that this false statement of fact induced Ms E into entering 
an agreement that she wouldnt otherwise have entered. Ms E has admitted that she didnt know anything about ULEZ requirements, and so Im 
satisfied that she didnt ask the dealership about this before acquiring the car. I havent seen 
any evidence that ULEZ information was provided on the advert for the vehicle, and so Im 
satisfied that Ms E wasnt provided with false information about the ULEZ status of the car 
before she acquired it. 
A misrepresentation can also occur though omission of facts. So, Ive thought about whether 
Advantage were obliged to give Ms E information about the ULEZ status of the car, and I 
dont think they were. ULEZ information is publicly available and couldve been checked by 
Ms E if it was important to her. The car being non ULEZ compliant doesnt prevent Ms E 
from driving in a ULEZ, it just means that she faces a charge, and Im satisfied that it was Ms 
Es responsibility to check that the car was suitable for her, and that Advantage had no 
obligation to tell Ms E about the ULEZ status of the vehicle. 
So, it follows that Im satisfied that no false statement of fact was made, and the car was not 
misrepresented to Ms E. 
Ms E has asked Advantage to honour an offer they previously made to reduce the balance 
she owes following voluntary termination of the agreement. Advantage have told his service 
that the offer is no longer available. 
Im not asking Advantage to do anything more in respect of Ms Es complaint, so, whilst I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms E, I wont be directing Advantage to 
reinstate this offer.
If there is an outstanding balance remaining to be paid by Ms E I would remind Advantage of 
their responsibility to treat Ms E with forbearance and due consideration if she is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman