DRN-1186856
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about what Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) did with his money 
when it closed his account. He said it sent him a cheque, which was useless to him as he 
was out of the country for some time, and Halifax knew that.
What happened
Mr B said Halifax had been told, when it was closing his accounts, to pay the money to a 
new bank account. But it had sent him a cheque instead. Mr B said by the time he got back 
from overseas, the cheque would no longer be valid, and Halifax knew that. He said Halifax 
was trying to steal his money. 
Mr B wanted Halifax to pay the money into the new account hed opened, and pay 8% 
interest on it.
Halifax said it had written to Mr B to say that the money would be paid by cheque unless he 
made other arrangements. So it didnt think it had made a mistake. It said that it could stop 
the cheque and reissue it once he returned to the UK, or he could go into a branch with 
photo ID and it would pay him the amount in cash. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax had followed 
its usual procedure in sending Mr B a cheque once the account closed. Mr B was given 65 
days notice that the account was closing. So he could have arranged for his money to be 
moved elsewhere during this notice period. She didnt think Halifax had stolen Mr Bs money. 
It wasnt able to transfer money to him, and she thought it had provided reasonable 
alternatives. She said she wouldnt ask it to do any more now. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said our service had previously told Halifax to pay the money to him by 
an alternative method, and Halifax was disobeying. But our investigator looked at Mr Bs 
previous complaint, and said we hadnt told Halifax to do that. 
Because our investigator and Mr B didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has previously complained about the closure of his account to our service, and weve 
produced a decision on that, so I wont comment further on that here, other than to say Im 
satisfied we didnt instruct Halifax to take any particular steps in paying the money from the 
closed account. We simply noted that Halifax intended to pay the money by cheque to Mr B, 
and expressed the hope that Mr B would be able to contact Halifax and make alternative 
arrangements if that wasnt suitable. When Halifax wrote to Mr B about the closure of his account, it suggested Mr B could use 
the account switching service. Then his money would be transferred for him. When he didnt 
do that, or move the money elsewhere, Halifax paid Mr B by cheque. I think it was just doing 
what it had told Mr B it would do. I understand that Halifax was aware that Mr B was out of 
the country, but I dont think that means it was wrong to issue a cheque. 
Mr B thinks the reason Halifax has issued a cheque is that its trying to steal his money. By 
the time he returns to the UK, the cheque will no longer be valid. But I dont think Halifax is 
trying to keep this money. Its offered to cancel the cheque and either reissue it when Mr B 
returns, or to pay him the money hes owed in cash. Like our investigator, I think those are 
reasonable alternatives.
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think that Halifax has been unfair or 
unreasonable. So I dont think it has to transfer the money elsewhere for him, or to pay him 
interest on the money up to whenever hes able to access it. That means I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman