DRN-1884347
 
The complaint
Miss K has complained about four loans granted to her by Elevate Credit International 
Limited trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender). Miss K says that she couldnt afford these 
loans and that Sunny would have declined to lend to her if it had carried out a proper 
assessment of her finances. 
Miss K has brought her complaint to this Service via a claims management company. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Miss K throughout this decision.
What happened
Sunny agreed four loans for Miss K from June 2017 to January 2018. The loans ranged in 
value from £100 to £450 and all were to be repaid over six months. Ive set out some of the 
information Sunny provided about these loans in the following table:
Loan Start date End date Principal (£)Monthly 
repayment 
(£)
1 23/06/2017 24/10/2017 100 33
2 29/12/2017 03/01/2018 450 150
3 20/01/2018 22/01/2018 400 115
4 22/01/2018 26/03/2018 400 132
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ks complaint and found that Sunny had been 
irresponsible when it agreed to her fourth loan because shed taken three loans in quick 
succession and the fourth loan had been taken out the day the previous one was repaid. He 
recommended that the lender refunds the interest and charges Miss K paid for this loan. 
Sunny disagreed with this recommendation and said that borrowing a number of loans in the 
one month wasnt a sign of financial difficulty but offered flexibility. And that Miss K had 
repaid all her loans early. 
A second adjudicator reviewed Miss Ks complaint and found that Sunny hadnt lent 
irresponsibly on any occasion because, even if the lender had carried out more 
comprehensive affordability checks, it would likely have continued to lend to her.
Miss K didnt respond to our latest assessment (or subsequent chasing communications 
from this Service) and so the complaint has come to me to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Miss K took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that before 
lending Sunny needed to make a reasonable assessment of Miss Ks creditworthiness. This 
meant that it needed to check that Miss K could meet her repayments out of her normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order 
to reasonably assess whether Miss K would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means in Miss Ks case. Having done so, I am not upholding her complaint 
for the same reasons set out in our latest adjudication. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing for her and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why Ive come to this 
conclusion.  
Sunny says it asked Miss K for information about her regular income and expenses when 
she applied for a loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as just under £1,200 and 
her monthly expenses, including debt repayments, as ranging from £200 to £826, leaving 
her with a minimum amount of £360 left over to meet her loan repayments.
Sunny also said that it used information from third party credit reference agencies to ensure 
the loan was affordable for Miss K and to check her credit history. It hasnt provided the 
results of these checks but it has provided a summary which states that, on application,
Miss K never had more than two outstanding loans from another short term provider. The 
summary also states that there were no bankruptcies or debt management plans recorded 
on her credit file. It doesnt show the amount of Miss Ks existing debt or how much she was 
paying towards this.Miss Ks first loan was for £100, to be repaid in six instalments of about £33. From the 
information Miss K gave Sunny it seemed she had a disposable income of about £985 at 
that time. I think the assessment Sunny carried out here was in proportion to the 
circumstances. Miss K didnt have a previous borrowing relationship with the lender that it 
ought to have taken into account. The loan repayments didnt take up such a significant 
proportion of her monthly income that this alone might render the lending irresponsible. And 
it seems from the information she gave Sunny that she had enough disposable income to 
sustainably meet her loan repayments each month. 
In some cases I might think that a lender ought to have taken further steps to understand the 
full extent of a borrowers financial situation before agreeing credit, irrespective of the 
information theyve provided. But, given the amount Miss K was borrowing and that this was 
early in their lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable of Sunny to rely on what 
shed said about her circumstances.
Miss K repaid her first loan early and took out a second loan about two months later. She 
repaid this within days and took out another a few weeks later, which she also repaid within 
days. The monthly repayments for loans 2 and 3 were higher than those of loan 1 but, for the 
same reasons as above, I dont think Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed to them. I note 
that Sunny says Miss K didnt pay any interest for her second loan and less than £5 for her 
third, given how quickly she repaid them.
Miss K took out a fourth loan the same day she repaid her third and for the same amount. 
This was the third time in a matter of weeks that Miss K had borrowed several hundred 
pounds from Sunny. I dont think this meant that Sunny ought to have automatically declined 
to lend to her again, but I do think it ought to have looked into her circumstances in more 
depth before agreeing further credit. Sunny ought to have been concerned about the stability 
of Miss K's finances and checked whether she had any outstanding short term loans from 
other lenders. I appreciate that Sunny recorded that Miss K didnt have more than two 
outstanding short term loans with other lenders when she applied for this loan, but I dont 
know the detail of what it learnt about Miss Ks credit commitments at that time. 
I understand from what Miss K has told this Service that she was not in a good position 
financially when she applied to Sunny for her loans and shes provided some supporting 
information for this. Ive reviewed this and while I can see from her bank statements and her 
credit file that she'd taken out some short-term loans, she didn't have any outstanding at the 
time she borrowed her fourth loan from Sunny. And she'd recently finished repaying several 
longer term loans. So I dont think Sunny would have declined a fourth loan for Miss K, even 
if it had carried out more in depth checks.
Ive also thought about whether the pattern of lending showed that Miss K wouldnt be able 
to repay further credit sustainably at any point. Miss K had been indebted to Sunny for about 
nine months in total, though there was a gap of two months before she took out
loan 2. She went on to take out loans 3 and 4 immediately after repaying previous loans and, 
had this pattern continued for a longer period of time, I think it would have been of concern 
to Sunny. However, in this case I cant say that a pattern of lending had emerged which 
showed that it was more likely than not that Miss K would have difficulty repaying further 
credit. 
In summary, I cant say that Sunny made irresponsible lending decisions based on the 
information it had available or ought to have had available to it. And so I am not upholding 
Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint and I dont make any 
award against Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman