DRN-2595209
The complaint
Miss H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold 
PPI on her credit card. 
What happened
Miss H says that she was unaware that she had PPI on her credit card and considers that it 
had been applied without her knowledge. She is seeking a refund of any PPI payments shes 
made.
Barclaycard says that Miss Hs credit card account was opened in February 2015 and that 
the first time the card was used was in December 2016. It further confirmed that the first 
statement for the account was produced in January 2017.
Miss H says that she didnt open her credit card account in February 2015 but in November 
2015. Miss H believes that this is indicative of someone fraudulently accessing and utilising 
her credit card account. 
Barclaycard has confirmed that it stopped selling regular premium PPI, such as on credit 
cards, in 2010. 
Our investigator found that this wasnt a complaint we could help with. Thats because they 
thought there wasnt enough information to say Miss H had been sold PPI. Miss H didnt 
agree with their findings and so asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in particular, whether this is a complaint we can consider. Miss H has raised a number 
of points but in this decision, I am only looking at whether she was sold a policy or not. 
We asked Barclaycard to provide evidence to demonstrate whether Miss H had PPI on her 
credit card account. It confirmed that Miss H was a customer of it and opened her credit card 
account in February 2015  and Ive seen evidence which confirms this. 
Barclaycard has provided a copy of its systems screenshots and internal records which 
demonstrate the searches its undertaken in order to check whether PPI had been applied to 
Miss Hs account. Its searches show that PPI hadnt been applied to Miss Hs credit card 
account. 
Ive reviewed the results of those searches and the documents carefully and I cant see any 
record of PPI being taken out alongside Miss Hs account. Weve seen cases where PPI was 
sold with a credit card and so we know what Barclaycards records would show if PPI had 
been applied to Miss Hs account. If a policy had been sold to Miss H or applied to her 
account, I would have expected some reference to it on at least one of the databases that 
Barclaycard had searched.
Barclaycard has also confirmed that it stopped selling regular premium PPI policies in 2010, 
which was before Miss H took out her credit card with it.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Miss H wasnt sold PPI with her credit 
card account nor was it applied to her account after this date. Miss H hasnt provided any 
evidence that shows she was paying for such a policy. As neither party has been able to 
show that PPI was sold to Miss H, I cant now investigate the merits of Miss Hs substantive 
complaint about the policy being mis-sold to her. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Miss H especially because shes been 
worried that someone has been fraudulently using her credit card account and taken out PPI 
unbeknownst to her. Id like to reassure Miss H that Ive taken everything shes said into 
account but on this occasion, Im unable to uphold her complaint because Ive seen no 
evidence that a PPI policy was applied to her account. I hope that it comforts Miss H to know 
that someone has independently considered her complaint and that she is reassured by my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that theres insufficient evidence to show 
Miss H had PPI on her credit card account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman