DRN-3422875
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited wrongly disposed of his car
under his motor policy, causing him unnecessary losses.
What happened
On 24 February 2020, Mr N was involved in an accident. He accepted it was his fault. He
told Skyfire he wanted to keep his car when they took it away to consider the damage to it.
During the claims process which lasted over 18 months, Skyfire disposed of Mr Ns car and
some of the personal possessions in it also went missing. Mr N complained.
Skyfire decided the market value of his car was £1,800.00, it valued the contents in the car
at £1,441.62. It paid him £300.11 interest plus £250.00 compensation. It didnt want to pay 
for Mr Ns legal costs because it hadnt authorised them.
Mr N remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought it
should be upheld. He was of the view that as the market value Skyfire offered was in excess
of the trade guides valuations, it was reasonable. He thought Skyfire should have paid the
full amount Mr N claimed for his personal possessions in the sum of £1,519.29 instead of the
£1,441.62 it offered. The interest calculation needed to be recalculated up the present day.
And he thought Skyfire should pay a total of £750.00 compensation inclusive of the £250.00.
Skyfire didnt agree to the increased compensation and felt £500.00 was more reasonable. It
also explained it paid 95% if the value of the lost possessions because none of them were
new. Mr N didnt agree this was reasonable and hes also of the view that he lost out on the
parts of the car he could have sold on had he been permitted to retain it.
Consequently, Mr Ns complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 March 2022 and I said the following: 
First, the most the Skyfire has to pay is the market value of the Mr Ns car if it is a 
total loss, which is the case here. This is clearly written on page 12 of the policy. So, 
leaving aside the important issue of Skyfire disposing of Mr Ns car when he wished 
to retain it, which I shall deal with later, I consider the most Mr N should receive from 
Skyfire is the market value of his car.
As detailed by the investigator in his view, the trade guides valued Mr Ns car at the 
highest figure at £1,709.00. Skyfire decided on a figure of £1,800.00 which is in 
excess of any of the valuations in the trade guides, therefore its clear this is a 
generous valuation on Mr Ns car, which means I dont consider it be unreasonable. 
This service doesnt provide a valuation service for motor vehicles, as we are not 
motor engineers. However, we do look to ensure an insurer came to the figure 
reasonably. We do that by expecting them to have consulted the trade guides. Since 
Skyfires market valuation for Mr Ns car exceeds the trade guides valuations there is 
nothing to show me therefore that its valuation was at all unreasonable. And I note 
Skyfire has paid this to Mr N.
Turning to the possessions lost in Mr Ns car, given its unauthorised disposal by 
Skyfire, I do consider it was reasonable for Skyfire to pay 95% of the valuation of 
these given by Mr N, as of course, none of the items were new at the time of the loss. 
In the policy at page 23, the limit payable on lost personal belongings is £250 
However, since in real terms Mr Ns loss of his personal belongings was due to the 
fact his car was wrongly disposed of, instead of because of the accident, its fair and 
reasonable that this cap wasnt adhered to by Skyfire. Also given none of the items 
were new, there has to be some discount for depreciation, and I consider the 5% 
used by Skyfire to be reasonable in these circumstances. Its certainly not
excessive at all.
Ive read Skyfires file and Mr Ns account of trying to contact it to find out what was 
going on with his claim. It seemed to get itself in a muddle with the police and the 
amount it should pay for a report from the police, which caused very excessive delay. 
It wanted to know the outcome of Mr Ns breath test. But none was taken by the 
police at the time. Skyfire could have asked Mr N this, first of all, but it didnt. And the 
delay of nearly a year in dealing with his claim was, consequently, grossly 
unreasonable in my view notwithstanding any pandemic issues. Because of this 
delay Mr N sought the advice from a solicitor. There is cover for legal costs in Mr Ns 
policy at page 15, stating if the insurer agrees in writing beforehand..
However, Mr N at the time wasnt receiving any coherent updates from Skyfire 
beyond asking if the police had told him about any court date, which caused him 
considerable consternation, as there wasnt any police prosecution of Mr N. There 
never was any rational response to Mr Ns request for updated information in any real 
way until some considerable time later and so therefore I do actually consider it was 
rather reasonable that Mr N decided to consult a solicitor. And upon proof that Mr N 
paid the fees of the solicitors as he has quoted, I consider Skyfire should refund them 
with interest, notwithstanding it never agreed to the instruction of solicitors 
beforehand. This is because Mr Ns accident occurred on 24 February 2020 and 
wasnt resolved even partially until 13 September 2021. On the basis of the lack of 
responses from Skyfire to Mr Ns specific requests for updates and explanations
of what on earth it was actually doing with his claim, I consider it reasonable that Mr 
N decided to approach solicitors. Therefore, I consider he shouldnt be out of pocket 
in doing so, either.
It was wrong of Skyfire to dispose of Mr Ns car when he was so clear in wanting to 
retain it. Mr N felt he could have sold on the salvaged parts. First, if Mr N had 
retained his car the market valuation offered by Skyfire would have been reduced by 
the salvage value it was (or would have been) paid by the salvage agents. I asked 
Skyfire what the salvage value was, and it said it was £378.00. Further in looking at 
the engineering evidence and the police evidence, I cant see much evidence that in 
real terms the engine and gearbox could have been worth £700.00 as Mr N said. 
Along with the wheels, brakes, interior, doors, electrics and ECU, exhaust, and rear 
suspension, which he also said he could have sold on. The engineer classed the car 
merely as fair in condition. Repairs needed to be done to the wheels, interior, 
steering, dashboard including the radio compartment, seatbelts etc. The police also 
said the engine components has collapsed in during the crash. But essentially
the most Skyfire needs to pay is the market value of the car, which as detailed 
above, I consider it did.So, I consider the fact it wrongly disposed of Mr Ns car merely gives rise to 
compensation for the loss of chance in selling on these parts, rather than any 
notional sums Mr N believes he could have sold them for.
Added to this compensation. should be further compensation for the excessive delay 
by Skyfire in dealing with Mr Ns claim, which in my view was excessively long. I do 
consider the amount suggested by the investigator is in the right ballpark, namely 
£750.00 compensation. So, I consider this should be the total compensation payable 
by Skyfire to include any previous compensation it paid. Its in line with other awards I 
have awarded in similar circumstances.
Mr N didnt agree that Skyfire shouldnt also pay him the loss of the parts that he said he 
could have sold on. He was of the view his views on the condition of his car was true. He 
also explained that no one ever gave him any details or assessment of his car to the 
contrary. 
Skyfire agreed to reimburse Mr N his solicitors fees but it remained of the view that the 
compensation amount of £750.00 was too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld in the way I 
fully considered and explained in my provisional decision.
As regards the condition of Mr Ns car, I dont doubt that his view is very sincerely and 
honestly held. However, both the engineers report and indeed the police report do detail the 
issues that I explained above. There is no other evidence before me to show me any 
differently. And more importantly, the most Skyfire has to pay under the policy is the market 
value of the car. Its valuation of Mr Ns car was in excess of the trade guide valuations which 
therefore means its payment to Mr N of the market value of his car is reasonable and fair.
As I explained, Mr Ns loss of chance of possibly recouping further monies for the sale of any 
parts if Skyfire had adhered to his request that he wanted to retain it gives rise to 
compensation only. 
So, taking all things into consideration, I remain of the view the compensation amount of 
£750.00 consequently is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Refund Mr N his solicitors costs on proof of payment adding interest of 8% simple 
from the date he paid his solicitors costs to the date of its refund.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mr N for HMRC purposes.
Ensure Mr N is paid a total of £750.00 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman