DRN-2205775
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to process a chargeback claim and about 
the poor customer service he has received when raising the chargeback.
What happened
This complaint is being brought by Ms W on behalf of Mr P but for clarity Ill refer to Mr P 
throughout.
On 8 September Mr P ordered a baby blanket online using his debit card. The blanket didnt 
arrive and Mr P says the company disappeared.  On 5 December 2018 Mr P sent a letter to 
Lloyds asking it to raise a chargeback. The letter had his typed name but no signature.
On 18 December 2018 Lloyds wrote to Mr P asking him to call so that we can proceed with 
your dispute.  Mr P didnt reply at the time but in July 2019 he raised a complaint with 
Lloyds about the failure to progress his claim and asking for his complaint to be dealt with in 
writing.
Mr P says that hes asked Lloyds to only communicate with him writing because he wants a 
record and because Lloyds call centres arent fit for purpose. Hes unhappy that Lloyds 
hasnt complied and feels this is a breach of the regulations that require banks to treat 
customers fairly.  Mr P also says the payment was made from his overdraft which is a 
breach of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Lloyds rejected the claim. It said its policy is to deal with chargeback claims over the phone 
or in person to make sure it has the right information. Mr P hadnt made it aware in 
December 2018 that he had any particular needs that meant he couldnt do so but in any 
event the letter of 5 December wasnt signed by Mr P so in line with its terms and conditions, 
it need to verify his signature. As Mr P didnt reply to its letter, however, it couldnt go ahead 
and process the claim and by the time Mr P contacted it again in July 2019, it was out of 
time. In the circumstances it didnt agree it had done anything wrong or was responsible for 
Mr Ps losses.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr P hadnt replied to Lloyds letter of 
18 December or contacted it again until July 2019, by which time the claim was out of time to 
be taken forward. This was due to the scheme rules which Lloyds wasnt responsible for but 
she couldnt agree Lloyds was unreasonable in not going ahead while it was waiting for Mr P 
to reply.
She understood Mr P wanted all his communication in writing. However, the terms and 
conditions for his current account required written instructions to be confirmed by a signature 
and allowed the bank a discretion as to the best means of doing so. In this case Mr P hadnt 
asked for the matter to be dealt with in writing or made Lloyds aware of any particular 
communication issues at the time he made the claim, so it wasnt unreasonable of Lloyds to 
ask him to call. Lloyds had explained why it felt these claims were best dealt with this way 
and that was a commercial decision it was entitled to make. In the circumstances she 
couldnt agree Lloyds had made a mistake or acted unfairly. For that reason, she wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything more.
Mr P disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He says hed 
had previous poor experiences with Lloyds and it was for that reason, he now wanted a 
written record of all transactions. He felt he was entitled to choose how to communicate and 
felt Lloyds was in breach of the FCA regulations by refusing his request.  With regard to the 
letter in December, he felt Lloyds could have asked him to re-send his original letter properly 
signed or could have sent him the form and asked him to complete and return it. And he 
repeated his view that Lloyds had been in breach of Consumer Credit Act by allowing the 
payment from his overdraft. He asked for a refund of the cost of the item and compensation 
for his time and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by explaining that my role is to consider whether the service provided by 
Lloyds in this case was reasonable. If I find its not, then I can ask Lloyds to take steps to put 
matters right. However, I cant tell Lloyds how to manage its business or interfere with its 
commercial decisions as thats a matter for the regulator.
In this case Mr P bought a blanket online in September 2018. It didnt arrive and it seems the 
business had gone out of business so couldnt assist and he therefore raised a chargeback 
claim with Lloyds in December 2018. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one and the rules are set by the card provider, not 
the bank but the bank is required to comply with those regulations, including the rules on the 
time limits for when a claim can be made. It seems the relevant rule in this case would be 
that of services not received where the rules say that the customer must submit their claim 
within 120 days of the consumer being aware the service wouldnt be provided. In this case 
Mr P first contacted Lloyds about the missing item on 5 December, but after receiving 
Lloyds letter of 18 December he didnt follow it up until July 2019, by which time it was well 
outside of the schemes time limit to be taken forward. 
I appreciate that Mr P may not have known the time limits. Ive also seen that he feels Lloyds 
could have done more to contact him in December 2018. However, the letter of 18 
December is clear that Mr P would need to contact the bank if it was to proceed with his 
dispute about this transaction. Mr P didnt do so for more than six months and I havent seen 
any good explanation for this. Unfortunately, by the time Mr P did go back to the bank, the 
matter was well outside of the schemes timescales and it wasnt possible at that point for 
Lloyds to pursue the claim. I can understand how frustrating this is for Mr P but I cant 
reasonably say Lloyds is responsible for this.
Ive seen Mr P now requires all communication between him and Lloyds to be in writing so 
he has a record. However, I have to look at the situation as it was in December 2018 when 
Mr P first contacted the bank about this claim and I havent seen anything to show that, at 
that time, he had made his preferences clear.  I should add that under the terms and 
conditions of his account Lloyds has a discretion as to how it communicates with its 
customers so I cant criticise it for writing to Mr P and asking him to call.  It seems to me that 
if Mr P didnt want to do this there were a number of other options available to him, including 
writing back to explain or going into his local branch but, in the absence of that, Lloyds 
couldnt have known why he hadnt replied or that he still wanted to pursue his claim.Finally I note that Mr P has said the payment was made from his overdraft and so was in 
breach of the regulations. Ive reviewed Mr Ps bank accounts at this time and Im satisfied 
that he had a significant balance and that this doesnt apply therefore.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr P was hoping for but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
uphold Mr Ps complaint and I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman