DRN-3984292
The complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) declined a claim for damage he made 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W has motor vehicle insurance with Lloyds. 
In 2019 Mr W says there was an electrical fire in the boot of his vehicle. He says Lloyds 
conducted a brief visual inspection of the car and concluded it was overheating caused by a 
new battery. As a result of this Lloyds have said the damage wouldnt be covered under the 
terms of the policy.  
Mr W says Lloyds relied on its in-house engineering team and the repairing garage to come 
to its decision. He says he hasnt been to a repairing garage so isnt clear what that is 
referring to. Mr W says the in-house engineering team didnt inspect his car and only relied 
on the visual report. 
Mr W says the car manufacturer rejected the finding that the new battery caused the fire. Mr 
W says a forensic report should have been conducted. 
Mr W was without his car from November 2019. He says the insurer should have conducted 
a full forensic investigation into the cause of the fire. And if it transpired there was a fire and 
not just overheating then the insurer should honour the terms of policy and cover the cost of 
the claim. 
Mr W complained to Lloyds. Lloyds said Mr Ws policy covers loss or damage caused by 
accidental damage, fire, theft, and third-party liability cover. It said an independent engineer 
determined the damage was as a result of the alternator that had overcharged/overheated 
the new battery. The engineer said the battery overheated due to overcharging and melted 
the material directly above it. The engineer said there was no evidence of fire damage. And 
as such the damage wasnt caused by a specific peril covered under Mr Ws policy.
Mr W didnt agree with Lloyds and so he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. He said based on the 
evidence hed seen he thought Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W obtained a further report from a forensic fire expert. The report stated the damage was 
caused by a loose wire which led to a fire. The expert said that on balance it was likely there 
was a fire. So Mr W forwarded the report to this service and the investigator passed it to 
Lloyds and asked for its comments. 
Lloyds confirmed it wanted to have another expert review the two main reports before 
considering the matter further. On receipt of the new report Lloyds agreed to settle the claim 
plus expenses. Mr W agreed but wanted compensation for the time it took to resolve the 
matter and the distress and inconvenience caused. 
And so the investigator issued a further view. He said he thought Lloyds should pay Mr W 
£400 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him, plus 8% interest 
on the settlement. 
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2023 where I explained 
why I intended not to uphold the complaint. In that decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Although Ive read and considered the evidence provided to me, Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on the specific point, its not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
I can see this has been a stressful experience for Mr W and he feels very strongly that 
Lloyds has treated him unfairly. 
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant 
determine how the damage occurred. Im not a mechanic or an engineer but I dont have to 
be to decide this case. Instead what we look at is the information the insurance company 
relied on to make its decision and whether it treated the customer fairly in doing so. 
In this case I think Lloyds has carried out a fair investigation. It instructed an independent 
engineer to provide a report on the car after the incident. The report said, the damage looks 
to have been heat damage rather than an outright fire. The report concludes by saying, 
there is no flame damage only overheat damage. Lloyds took this report into consideration 
and decided to decline the claim. 
I know Mr W believes Lloyds should have obtained a detailed forensic report. But since the 
engineers are the experts in this matter they will carry out an inspection as they see fit. I am 
satisfied Lloyds used the engineers professional opinion to make its decision to decline the 
claim.  
Mr W may disagree with Lloyds interpretation of the evidence and decision to decline the 
claim initially, but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised its 
discretion unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to do so on the available evidence. 
Further, at that stage there was no other independent evidence available. I am satisfied the 
engineer was suitably qualified to assess the damage to the vehicle. And when he attributed 
the damage to an electrical failure causing overheating Lloyds were entitled to rely on that 
evidence. There was no compelling reason to obtain a second report at that stage.  
Mr W provided a forensic report to the insurer in February 2022. Lloyds instructed another 
expert to consider both reports and concluded it would cover the cost of the claim. From 
what Ive read Lloyds did this quickly and settled the claim within a few weeks of receiving 
that report. And so its clear when provided with independent evidence to support that there 
was likely to have been a fire, Lloyds moved to settle the claim under the terms of the policy. 
I am aware my findings are different to those of the investigator which is the reason for the 
provisional decision. I think the crux of the issue here is that it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the initial report in deciding the claim at the outset. And when the new report became 
available it acted quickly and offered a reasonable settlement. So while its disappointing it 
took the time it did for the matter to settle, I cant say Lloyds were unreasonable in the way 
the claim was handled. 
Response to my provision decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Lloyds didnt provide any further comments. Mr W provided a response detailing 
the issues he had with Lloyds handling of the engineering evidence. 
Mr W also provided further commentary on the circumstances of the complaint but no new 
evidence or information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness I have responded to the main points raised by Mr W below.
Mr W says the report Lloyds received wasnt CPR compliant and as such doesnt qualify as 
an expert report. I disagree. CPR compliance is something thats decided by a court and I 
cant see that any court proceedings have been issued here. A report doesnt have to be 
CPR compliant in order for it to be relied upon by a business. And so my view that the report 
relied upon by Lloyds was an expert report for its purposes. 
Mr W says the engineer appointed by Lloyds wasnt competent. But I havent seen any 
evidence to support that contention. As the engineer was the expert in this situation, I think 
Lloyds acted fairly when seeking the engineers opinion and then relying on it. So, I cant 
say Lloyds did something wrong here. 
To be clear I dont disagree with the findings of Mr Ws expert. But that report wasnt 
available at the time of Lloyds initial assessment of Mr Ws claim. Lloyds assessed the 
claim on the evidence it had at the time. Lloyds is entitled to do this. Just as Mr W is entitled 
to disagree with Lloyds findings and instruct his own expert. And when Lloyds did receive 
and consider Mr Ws report it settled the claim quickly and efficiently. Which is what I would 
have expected it to do.
Mr W refers to the report by the car manufacturer which he says Lloyds chose to reject. I 
have seen that the report was sent to the underwriters of the policy to consider. I have also 
considered the report carefully. The report says, Analysis of the affected components 
identified that a positive power supply cable located on the underside of the rear fuse/relay 
module was detached from its respective terminal connection. Detailed examination of the 
power supply cable identified evidence of abnormal electrical activity and melting constant 
with the occurrence of excessive localised resistive overheating as a result of a poor 
electrical connection on the wiring connection terminal. And the report goes on to conclude, 
Furthermore, there was no evidence of an internal fire causing defect at the rear fuse/relay 
module itself. So I think Lloyds review and assessment of the report was reasonable based 
on its findings.
I think Lloyds have acted within the terms and conditions of the policy and treated Mr W 
fairly and reasonably. I understand the matter has been difficult for Mr W and had the final 
report been available at the time of the initial assessment of the claim the outcome would likely have been different. But I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong in its handling of the 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman