DRN-2220372
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the increase in premiums theyve been asked to pay 
for their whole of life policy, sold to them by a predecessor business of Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). They also feel that the policy was mis-sold to them. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out the whole of life policy with Aviva in 1994. The initial sum assured 
was £35,000 and the premium was £15 per month. The policy was also indexed linked 
meaning the death benefit and the premiums would increase slightly each year to guard 
against the effects of inflation. 
The policy was reviewed as it should have been in 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014. It passed 
these reviews, which meant that the level of premium being paid at the time was seen as 
sufficient to maintain the sum assured until at least the next review date. However, the policy 
failed the 2019 review. This meant that Mr and Mrs P were presented with the option of 
either increasing their monthly premium from £66.15 to £183.98, to maintain the sum 
assured. Or to reduce the sum assured from £70,046 to £28,018 for the same monthly 
premium. 
As Mr and Mrs P didnt respond to the 2019 review letters, the policy continued with the 
same monthly premium and sum assured. Value in the policy was used to make up the 
shortfall and the policy has subsequently lapsed. 
They complained to Aviva that the amount being asked of them as an increased premium 
was too high and not fair. They also felt that the policy had been mis-sold to them. Aviva 
looked into the matter and said that the premium increase required was correct. They also 
felt that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps recorded needs at the point of sale and 
that the reviewable nature of the policy had been explained to them. 
The matter was referred to this service but our investigator didnt agree that Aviva had done 
anything wrong. She felt that the required increase in premium was correct and that the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for their needs at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and as no agreement was reached, the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons.
Firstly, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P might have expected that a policy that they had been 
paying into for about 25 years, would have a significantly higher surrender value or at least 
not require such an increase in monthly premium to maintain the sum assured. I can see that 
to be told about the decrease in the death benefit and the increase required in the premiums 
came as a shock to Mr and Mrs P. But ultimately this is how reviewable whole of life policies 
work. So, Aviva hasnt done anything wrong in asking for a higher premium or proposing to 
lower the death benefit. 
Reviews are part of the contract Mr and Mrs P signed up to and their function is to 
specifically ascertain whether enough is being paid into the policy, taking account of the 
investment element, to provide the death benefit at the required time. Given these policies 
are usually in place for tens of years it is very rare for the death benefit to remain the same 
as well as the premiums. The cost of living increases as one gets older, as do mortality 
rates and these are a couple of factors that are taken into account when reviewing the policy 
and calculating the increases and decreases required. The criteria of the calculations are 
largely the same industry wide based on what Ive seen and so are not specific to Aviva. 
Ultimately this is the nature of these types of policies. An increase in the premiums will 
usually always be required for reviewable whole of life policies if they continue to run more 
than ten years. 
I obviously wasnt present when the policy was sold nor is there a lot of information from the 
time of the sale for me to be certain or comment on what was discussed. I have been 
provided with some point of sale documentation. A lot of this is difficult to read due to the 
poor quality of the copy. However, I have a copy of the terms and conditions and they state 
that the policy is reviewable and will be reviewed every fifth anniversary from inception. 
They state that a premium increase may be required to sustain the benefit. The advisor 
should have explained this and made it clear, but it is difficult for me to say what happened 
with little documented from the conversation. On top of this reviews have been carried out 
every five years as they should have been. Mr and Mrs P were written to every five years 
and told that a review of their policy had been carried out. I therefore cant fairly conclude 
that not enough was done to make Mr and Mrs P aware of the reviewable nature of the 
policy. 
Included in the point of sale documents is a fact find completed with Mr and Mrs P at the 
time. It is signed and states that their recorded needs were family protection in the event of 
early death or serious illness. It was also ticked that they wanted protection for the whole of 
their lives.  I cant see anything in the document that contradicts this or states a need that 
would mean whole of life cover wasnt suitable. So, I am satisfied based on what I have 
been provided with that the policy was appropriate for what they required at the time. 
Whilst it is unusual to require a threefold increase in premium, I am satisfied from the 
information provided by Aviva that this is correct. The policy reviews had all passed until this 
point, with the only increases required through indexation. 
Overall therefore, given all that I have seen, while I recognise that Mr and Mrs P will be 
disappointed, Im dont think Aviva has done anything wrong or acted unfairly. I am satisfied 
that the reviews have been carried out and premiums calculated correctly. I also dont agree 
that Aviva has acted unfairly by increasing the premium to the level it has. And Im satisfied 
the policy was a suitable recommendation and the nature of it was sufficiently explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I 
make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman