DRN-3347684
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) has unfairly declined their 
claim under section 75 and section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation 
to a timeshare product they were sold.
What happened
In July 2012, Mr and Mrs D purchased a trial membership timeshare through a timeshare 
provider (Company A). This timeshare cost £3,950.00 and was paid for by card by another 
finance provider.
In 2013, when first using this timeshare, Mr and Mrs D were invited to a presentation. They 
say they were persuaded to trade in the trial membership and pay an additional fee to 
upgrade to a full membership. Theyd been told in 2012 the full membership would cost 
£10,000 but were offered to upgrade for only an additional £2,990.00. This was part funded 
by Mr Ds Tesco credit card.
Mr and Mrs D feel the timeshare was misrepresented, they realised this after purchasing the 
upgrade and attempting to use it. Theyve highlighted the following points:
- The timeshare was sold as an investment that could be sold at a later date for profit.
- That the timeshare was affiliated with a timeshare exchange scheme and that Mr and 
Mrs D would be able to trade in any weeks they didnt use each year into these 
schemes and bank these towards a special future holiday. They believed theyd get 
10,000 points if they made this exchange and these points would be worth more than 
the annual maintenance fees. And the holidays could be booked when they wanted 
with this flexibility.
Mr and Mrs D say when they tried to use the benefits of the timeshare, they realised 
Company A had misrepresented it.
Tesco looked at Mr and Mrs Ds claim but didnt think the payment had been made to 
Company A. Instead it felt the payment was made to a separate third party business that 
acted as a trustee, (Company B). Because of this, they didnt think s75 of the CCA could be 
applied. It also said the contract between Mr and Mrs D and Company A didnt give any 
information about an investment value and it believed the timeshare and its benefits 
remained available to Mr and Mrs D to use in the future, so it declined their claim under s75 
of the CCA. Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs D complained and brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly when 
declining the claim. She thought it was fair to say that there was a link between Company A 
and Company B. Everything submitted indicated the service paid for by Mr and Mrs D was 
provided by Company A. Company B did nothing more than process the payment and so 
she was satisfied s75 of the CCA was applicable.
However, she felt the overall decision to decline the claim was fair. She didnt see anything 
to demonstrate the timeshare had been misrepresented by Company A   although she 
acknowledged the benefits of the product would have been highlighted during the sale, she 
wasnt persuaded there was a misrepresentation. She also considered s140A of the CCA 
and whether there is an unfair debtor creditor relationship, but felt it was unlikely a court 
would conclude the actions of Company A as an agent of Tesco would have created one. 
Nor did she think there was anything to demonstrate a breach of contract under s75 of the 
CCA.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the outcome and said that the timeshare was portrayed as an 
investment and this was a key reason for purchasing it. 
Because Mr and Mrs D disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D have brought two complaints to this service about their timeshare purchased 
with Company A. One against the finance provider for the trial membership purchase and 
one for the upgraded purchase and sale of the full membership against Tesco. This decision 
focuses on the full sale as Tesco can only be held jointly liable for anything financed by it, so 
the previous trial membership and this sale are not its responsibility. Im simply addressing 
whether Tesco made a fair decision when it declined the claim made under s75 and s140A 
of the CCA.
Our investigator said she felt there was the right sort of  link between Company A and 
Company B that meant s75 of the CCA could be applied. Tesco hasnt responded to the 
view to dispute this link, nor have Mr and Mrs D, so Ive taken it as no longer disputed. But in 
any event, I need not make any firm finding on this point as, even if there is the right sort of 
link in place, I dont think Tesco needs to do anything further having considered the merits of 
the s75 and s140A claims.
Ive previously issued a final decision addressing the trial membership sale against another 
business. Many of the concerns about the second sale mirror those raised with the first. For 
the avoidance of doubt, I have considered all of the points of complaint I think relevant to the 
2013 sale.
Did company A misrepresent the timeshare as an investment?
Mr and Mrs D have said that they were told the timeshare could be sold at a later date for a 
profit. In short they feel it was sold as an investment and this is one of the reasons why they 
purchased the timeshare when upgrading from the trial membership.
The sale took place some time ago and Mr and Mrs D havent been able to be specific on 
exactly what was said during the sale which is understandable. Theyve pointed to the 
overall sale price being cheaper than first quoted when the trial membership was taken out. 
They only paid £6,940 in total (allowing for the price of the superseded trial membership to 
be included) compared with the initial £10,000 quoted. But havent indicated that they were 
told the timeshare could be resold for the price quoted originally. Nor have they given any 
indication of the return they expected to receive.The contract for the timeshare does explain that this can be resold, so being told this is an 
option would be true. It also says that Company A doesnt currently run a resale programme. 
And nowhere within the contract is there talk of any return. Having considered the timeshare 
agreement, I cant see that it has any obvious investment element or clear way of generating 
a profit for the timeshare members. And Mr and Mrs D havent set out how they thought they 
would be able to get money out of the timeshare, save for a possible resale opportunity. So 
while I think it was possible the timeshare was described as an investment by Company A, I 
dont have the evidence that suggests it was probable that happened. So I dont make any 
finding that the timeshare was represented as an investment.
Did Company A misrepresent the products ability to be used with the exchange 
schemes?
I think it is likely that the benefits of being affiliated with the exchange schemes were 
discussed at length with Mr and Mrs D and that focus was given on the flexibility of this as a 
selling point for the timeshare. That would make sense as it would enable Mr and Mrs D to 
holiday outside of the resorts offered only by Business A. However, Im not persuaded these 
were misrepresented based on what Mr and Mrs D have said.
The timeshare contract has a number of sections which talk about and reference the 
exchange schemes. It sets out deadlines that need to be met to use each of these each year 
and details the number of points that will be provided when the timeshare is taken out. This 
is confirmed as 10,000 reward points with one of the schemes. It also explains that 
exchanges are subject to availability. 
The contract doesnt support a set number of points being provided when a week is traded 
in. The only reference to any level of reward points is the reference made to the 10,000 
points awarded when the contract was taken out. And I cant see any promise that the value 
of the trade in will be in excess of the annual maintenance fee. Mr and Mrs D havent 
explained how they thought this would work in practice either, so it is unclear whether they 
say they thought they wouldnt need to pay maintenance fees or that the benefits theyd get 
from the exchange programme would be worth more than the cost of their maintenance fees. 
As Mr and Mrs D havent been able to set out in detail what the alleged representation was, I 
am not able to make a finding on that issue.
The sale documents also make it clear that the subscription to each scheme is not included 
indefinitely. Mr and Mrs D received a limited  membership for each of the schemes with the 
purchase, but future renewals were optional. These would also cost Mr and Mrs D more and 
this was detailed in the contract. And theyd need to decide whether the cost of the schemes 
was outweighed by the benefit of them. So I dont think it was probable that they were told 
they wouldnt have to pay any fees later on to the exchange schemes.
Weeks can be brought forward to future years and traded with the schemes and the contract 
explains when further payments might be needed when booking through these. But being 
able to keep the banked/traded points indefinitely would likely depend on Mr and Mrs D 
deciding to renew the subscription. Mr and Mrs D said theyd been told that they could bank 
points from the trade for a future special holiday but this has only resulted in a discount of a 
future booking. And the total number of points that can be used at anyone time is limited to 
2,500, limiting the discount available. But this doesnt mean these points and discount cant 
be used against future holidays. Nor can I see that Mr and Mrs D are alleging that they were 
told a specific thing about the way in which the schemes worked that turned out to be untrue. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D say they werent given all of the information about how the 
schemes worked at the time of sale, but that is different to saying there was a false 
representation about how the schemes worked.Overall, I dont think it would be untrue to say Mr and Mrs D could exchange their week with 
the schemes or that they could bank these weeks. And these could be used towards a future 
holiday. Ive not seen anything to show what was said in relation to these schemes and the 
timeshare that was untrue. So Im not persuaded the use of the schemes was 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs D.  
Breach of contract 
Mr and Mrs D say that there was a breach of contract that Tesco can be responsible for 
under s75 CCA. They have pointed to a number of European Directives and UK Regulations 
that they say were breached, in particular by taking a deposit at the point of sale, by not 
providing sufficient information and by pressuring them into taking out the full membership. 
However, those directives and regulations did not form terms of the timeshare contract Mr 
and Mrs D took out. So I dont think Tesco would need to do anything else under s75 CAA, 
even if I agreed there was a breach of regulations as this wouldnt amount to a breach of 
contract under s75 of the CCA. So Tesco wouldnt be responsible under this provision.
Was there an unfair debtor creditor relationship?
Mr and Mrs D have also complained that they werent provided with all information during the 
sale and that other finance providers were not considered. They also say that there was a 
breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010. They feel the lack of information provided led to an imbalance of knowledge that made 
the relationship unfair.
Only a court can determine whether there is an unfair relationship and there is no universal 
test for this, but it is relevant law that I consider what is a fair and reasonable outcome. But 
Ive taken account of the actions taken by Company A when deciding whether Mr and Mrs D 
have been treated fairly as the timeshare agreement is a related agreement to the credit 
agreement under s19 of the CCA. 
Ive also taken into account the relevant regulations applicable to Company A as a timeshare 
provider at the point of sale. Its not my role to decide Company As legal liability in regard to 
these regulations. But they are relevant in determining a standard of commercial conduct 
expected of Company A. Any potential breach of the rules isnt determinative of the question 
posed by s140A, but it may have a legitimate influence on whether an unfair relationship 
existed between Mr and Mrs D and Tesco.   
As our investigator said, S56 of the CCA is relevant and means Company A acted as 
Tescos agent when conducting the negotiations with Mr and Mrs D. And this can include all 
communication, advertisement and representations made by the negotiator. This can be 
considered when considering whether things have been done or not done when thinking 
about s140A (1)(c)1.  
As section 140A (2) sets out, a court will take account of all matters it considers relevant, 
both in relation to the creditor and debtor. This means I must also take into account Mr and 
Mrs Ds individual circumstances when the sale took place. Considerations which may be 
relevant to the fairness of the relationship include Mr and Mrs Ds previous experience with 
timeshare products and the suppliers sales presentations, their sophistication or 
vulnerability, and their level of knowledge about the product they were buying.
1 Scotland V British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790I also have in mind the judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of Plevin v. Paragon 
Finance Ltd [2014] UKSC 61, where it was held (in summary) the question is whether the 
relationship between the creditor and debtor is unfair, not whether the creditor or anyone 
else has breached a duty. It was also held that relationships between businesses and 
consumers are often characterised by large differences of knowledge, which can make a 
relationship unfair if the imbalance is sufficiently extreme.
Keeping all of the above in mind, I have considered all of the evidence and submissions in 
this case, to determine whether I think its likely a court would find an unfair relationship 
existed between Mr and Mrs D and Tesco under section 140A (1)(c), by virtue of anything 
the Company A did or didnt do on Tescos behalf 
Mr and Mrs D and their representative have argued that the timeshare provider failed to 
consider other finance options when it accepted the payment via credit card and it didnt 
make the terms of the timeshare clear.
Mr and Mrs D already had the credit card in place with Tesco when they bought the 
timeshare from Company A (paid via Company B acting as the payment processor). There 
was no application for the borrowing or an increased credit limit at this point and I think the 
arguments made in relation to other loans not being considered are likely generic points 
brought by the representative of Mr and Mrs D. I cant see it has any real bearing on their 
complaint or whether Tesco or Company A acting on its behalf did anything wrong when 
accepting the credit card payment.
Mr and Mrs D had previously purchased a trial membership of a very similar product with the 
same company and so I think it would be fair to say they knew they were buying a 
timeshare. And I think even if some information could have been clearer during the sale, its 
unlikely that a court might say this would lead to a sufficiently extreme imbalance in 
knowledge, or that the relationship is unfair.
Mr and Mrs D have also argued the sales presentation was not advertised as such and they 
didnt know what they were attending until there. And like their first sale, theyve complained 
about the pressurised tactics used.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs D found it difficult to say no to Company A when purchasing 
the upgrade, not least because they may have felt they were getting this at a considerable 
saving compared with the price offered the year before. But Ive seen very little to show that 
Company A didnt allow Mr and Mrs D to say no to the sale. Its likely a lot of time was spent 
talking about the benefits of the product but Mr and Mrs D were returning customers whod 
purchased a trial membership only a year before. And at this point theyd declined the full 
timeshare and I think its reasonable to believe they were aware that they didnt need to 
purchase the full timeshare again when attending the sales presentation.  
Overall, thinking about their circumstances at the time of the sale and how the sales process 
took place, I think it is unlikely a court would determine this created an unfair relationship 
under s140A of the CCA.
Ultimately, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that Tesco has made an unfair claim 
decision under S75 or s140A of the CCA.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman