DRN-3266104
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (AFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint AFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then AFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs H. The car here was about 
one year old and had completed about 11,300 miles so I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect much wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when AFS were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mrs H first complained of a charging system fault with this car in December 2020, only three 
months after she took receipt of the car. Im persuaded that its likely this fault was therefore 
developing at the point of supply and I cant see that AFS have disputed this. Mrs H also 
complained about a fault with the 360-degree camera from the onset. She says there are still 
faults with that unit despite it having been replaced in November 2020, although the fault is 
intermittent.
The relevant legislation says that the business should be given one opportunity to fix a fault 
that was present or was developing from the start. The business have had several 
opportunities to resolve the charging system fault. They have replaced a battery and have 
replaced the alternator on three occasions. Mrs H returned the car to them in late November 
2021 and had to wait some time before the dealership provided an opinion on the continued 
presence of the charging system fault. They now say theres no evidence of that fault, but 
Im persuaded there is because:
Mrs H has provided photographic evidence of the fault on the dashboard before she 
took the car back.
The dealership initially noted the presence of the fault code. 
It seems unlikely that a replacement alternator would remedy the problem as that 
repair option had failed on three previous occasions.
So, I think there is evidence the car is still faulty and that repairs have been unsuccessful. In 
those circumstances I think the car has been of unsatisfactory quality and AFS should now 
allow Mrs H to reject it.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation says that when we consider 
whether goods have been of satisfactory quality we should consider if theyve proven to be 
durable. I dont think that can be said for this car. The car was relatively new when supplied 
and I think a reasonable person would therefore expect relatively trouble-free driving. But 
within the first six months the car had experienced problems with the boot, 360-degree 
camera, charging system and battery. And there were subsequent problems within the first 
year with the seat memory, drivers window, electrics, and heated seats.
So, I think this car has also been of unsatisfactory quality as it hasnt been durable. 
Putting things right
AFS should collect the car at no cost to Mrs H and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mrs H has paid and, as shes been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mrs H paid for a service to the car in March 2021 that would have covered the car for the 
next year. But she returned the car to the dealership in November 2021 and I think it would 
therefore be fair for AFS to provide a pro-rata refund of the service cost for the part of that 
year Mrs H didnt have use of the car.
Mrs H has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and shes had to chase the dealership for their views on the 
continuing faults. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. Mrs H has explained that the problems shes had have 
restricted her daily routine and caused her a lot of anxiety. Shes explained that as she 
works in a primary school she hasnt been able to work from home and has had to resort to 
public transport to get to work. Mrs H has also explained that she would usually have 
provided some care for an elderly relative but hasnt been able to do so because shes had 
no transport.
In those circumstances BMWFS should pay her £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.I think the issues Mrs H had will have impacted on the use shes had from the car. The 
business provided a courtesy car in December 2020 when the alternator failed but they 
havent kept Mrs H mobile since she returned the car in late November 2021 and Mrs H has 
been paying finance instalments for a car she didnt have. In the circumstances I think AFS 
should refund any finance instalments Mrs H has paid since she returned the car to the 
dealership on 30 November 2021. Mrs H also had issues with the car from June 2021 to 
November 2021 and Id agree with the investigator that AFS should therefore refund 15% of 
the finance instalments Mrs H paid in that time to reflect the impaired use she had.
AFS should also refund the costs Mrs H incurred to have her private number plate 
transferred. Mrs H will need to provide copies of any receipts/invoices.
The vehicle invoice details charges for smart repair insurance, tyre and alloy insurance, 
AutoGlym and 12 months road tax. These expenses were financed through the hire 
purchase agreement and AFS should therefore provide a pro-rata refund of the insurances 
for any period Mrs H will now no longer benefit from them. They should also provide a pro-
rata refund for the AutoGlym, but Mrs H has benefitted from twelve-month road tax and Im 
not persuaded there should be any refund of that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs H and end the finance agreement.
Refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid since 30 November 2021 in respect of lack of 
use. Also refund 15% of any finance instalments paid between June and November 
2021 to reflect the impaired use Mrs H had from the vehicle at that time. Add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs H £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused.
Provide a pro-rata refund for the service charge Mrs H incurred in March 2021 on 
provision of the receipt from Mrs H.
Refund the costs Mrs H incurred to have her private number plate transferred. Add 
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of the tyre and alloy and smart repair insurances to cover 
the period Mrs H stopped benefitting from those insurances (30 November 2021). 
Also provide a pro-rata refund of AutoGlym payment for the same period.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Hs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman