DRN-3654566
The complaint
Mr S says when he tried to transfer money online from his Think Money Limited account, the 
transaction failed.  
What happened
On 25 June 2022 at around 22.15 Mr S attempted to transfer £1.79 to another of his 
accounts but he couldnt, and the system returned an error message. Think Money 
confirmed it was having technical issues around this time, and apologised to Mr S for any 
inconvenience caused. Mr S wants compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said the business had already 
acknowledged its system was temporarily down and apologised. And she could see Mr S 
had transferred that same amount successfully some three hours later. She felt there were 
no grounds to award compensation in these circumstances.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review as the same problem 
had happened before. He said this incident had caused him stress and anxiety, so the 
impact was emotional. Hed been using mobile data that was part of his contract, so he had 
incurred no financial loss. But as he pays a fee for this account he thinks he should get some 
money back. He said this service is bias and he has attempted to take his life five times 
since last November.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why, but I first want to 
address Mr Ss comment that we have shown bias. As an independent and impartial 
organisation we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers: it is not in our interest to find in 
favour of one party over the other.
It is not in dispute that Think Money experienced systems issues that prevented Mr S 
transferring money when he tried to. However it has apologised for this and Mr S 
successfully made the transfer a few hours later. Mr S has confirmed he suffered no financial 
loss as a result of the delay. However, I dont doubt that the transfer failing caused Mr S 
avoidable stress and inconvenience. But in the circumstances of this case I find Think 
Moneys apology to be the appropriate response. To reach this conclusion I have considered 
how long Mr S had to wait to make the transfer and its value.
I am very sorry that Mr S is suffering so much with his mental health. As our investigator said 
we can provide him with details of supportive listening organisations if this is something he 
would be interested in. Whilst this final decision marks the end of our investigation into the 
merits of his complaint, he can of course still contact the investigator if he wants these 
details.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman