DRN-4154079
The complaint
Mr P, Mr P, Mr P and Mrs P complain that their broke r was prevented from submitting two 
mortgage applications fo r them by a system failure at Leeds Building Society. Leeds has 
honoured the then- available rate for one mortgag e, but the y want the other honoured too.
What happened
This complaint is brought by four separate applicants, Mr  P, Mr P, Mr P and Mrs P. For 
clarity, Ill refer to them together as the applicants.
The applicants told us they had asked the ir mortgage broker to remortgage two buy to let 
properties fo r them. They had chosen interest rate deals available with Leeds. They said the  
broker only managed to submit the first application. Due to a fault on the Leed s system he 
couldnt submit the second application that day. When he wa s able to complete the second 
application, the rates had gone up.
The applicants wanted Leeds to honour the interest rate of 3.22% that they would have 
secured if both application s had been processed on the same day, instead of the rate that 
they got for the second property of 4.2%.
Leed s appeared to accept, in its complaint response letter to the applicants, th at it had 
technical problems at the time, and that because of the se problems, it had honoured the 
interest rate set out on any Decision in Principle (DIP) alread y issued. But it said it wouldnt  
honour this rate fo r application s like the second one here, which hadn t even started.
But when the complaint came to us, Leeds said it didnt have evidence of system problems  
at its end on that date. It said the rate s it had offered fo r the applicants two mortgages were  
different because the applications had been submitted on different dates.
At this point, our investigato r didnt think this complaint should be upheld, because the re just 
wasnt enough evidence that Leeds had technical difficultie s on the relevant date. But the 
applicants sent eviden ce from thei r broker, confirming Leeds had experienced technical 
difficultie s on th at date. And L eeds also confirmed it had some proble ms o n this date.
Our investigato r then issued a second view, where she said n o DIP had been done for the  
second applicatio n, and there was no evidence that the applicants or thei r broker tried to 
contact Leed s on the day about this issue. Leed s didnt get the second application until a 
week later. Our investigator said Leed s requires DIPs to be completed before a product was  
withdrawn, before it will consider honouring the rate.
The applicants broker then contacted our service, to send us an email hed received from  
Leeds. That confirmed th at the broker and Leed s had discussed the systems issue s Leeds 
was experiencing, on the re levant date. And in the email, Leeds explained its subsequent 
position on why it had honoured the rate for the first application (which wasnt comp leted) but 
not the second application (which wasnt started). The email said we had a telephone  
conversation when you initially tried to complete these applications about the system issues 
happening at the time. DIPs dont secure a rate with us, usua lly, only a full application will do
this. However, after the system issues we agreed to honour any DIPs that had been done. 
Because no agreement had been reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ill start by setting out my understanding of events.
The applicants broker submitted the first stage of the first of two buy to let mortgage
applications on 27 June 2022. This was a request for a DIP. Although Leeds shows this
application as 29 June 2022, that sems likely to be as a result of the system problems it 
has mentioned.
The request for a DIP was successfully submitted for the first property, but the 
subsequent full mortgage application for that property was not. The broker contacted 
Leeds, and was told there was a system problem.
The broker has told us hed already been made aware by Leeds that it was withdrawing 
the rate the applicants hoped to secure for both their properties.
Leeds internal notes suggest it had a system problem on 27 June. Those notes also 
say the problem was resolved that same day, albeit extremely late in the day. The 
broker finally submitted the DIP, and presumably also the full mortgage application, for 
the second property on 4 July. The broker has said the application for the second 
property was delayed, because he was being asked by the applicants during this period 
if it was possible still to access the previous rate.
I note that there also may have been some confusion around what Leeds usually 
requires to secure an interest rate. But in its communications with us, Leeds has 
repeatedly said that its general policy is that only a full application will secure the quoted 
rate. And in its email to the broker, Leeds said DIPs dont secure a rate with us, usually, 
only a full application will do this. I think that makes clear that, if Leeds is withdrawing a 
previously advertised rate, it will only honour this rate for people who are awaiting an 
offer  those who have received a DIP and already submitted a full application.
But we know that this isnt what Leeds did, in this case. It decided to honour the rate 
quoted in DIPs it had already issued, for anyone who was trying to lodge their full 
application on 27 June, and wasnt able to do so because of the technical problems it 
had on that date. So a very small number of people who had DIPs before that date, and 
were trying to make a full application that afternoon, had their DIP rate honoured. 
People who had a DIP issued before 27 June but werent trying to lodge their full 
application on that date, presumably lost the rate theyd hoped to secure.
I think its important to note here that Leeds is entitled to withdraw previously advertised 
rates when it wants to. And it doesnt have to give the notice of this upcoming 
withdrawal that it apparently had given to the applicants broker.
The applicants in this case appear to have been seeking both a DIP and a full 
application on the same day, for both mortgages. Their broker managed to secure one 
DIP for them, and Leeds honoured this, because it understood that their broker had also tried to complete the full application for this property on 27 June, and had been 
prevented from doing so by the system problems Leeds experienced.
I think Leeds did this as a gesture of goodwill. It didnt have to. Because its entitled to
withdraw advertised rates at any point, I think Leeds could have simply treated the rates 
it had previously advertised, as being withdrawn earlier than anticipated on 27 June, 
when the system problems started. Instead, Leeds decided to honour rates for those 
who already had a DIP, and who were trying to secure the full application when its 
system went down. 
Im aware that this produces a somewhat anomalous result in the applicants case, 
because the rates were, effectively, withdrawn during the afternoon of 27 June, between 
their first and second applications. But I dont think that Leeds arguably generous act, in 
honouring a DIP rate quoted on the first property, also obliges it to offer the same rate 
for a second DIP application which hadnt been started when, unfortunately, Leeds 
systems failed. 
As there has been some confusion in this case, I welcome comments on the above. But 
on my current understanding of the case, I wouldnt propose to uphold this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Leeds confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but didnt offer anything more. 
Mr and Mrs P replied to say they couldnt understand the obscure reasoning behind my 
decision. They said Leeds eventually admitted its website was not working, so it wasnt 
possible for their advisor to submit the second application when the first application couldnt 
be finalised. So they said the decision to uphold the interest rate on the first application 
should apply equally to the second when it was wholly the fault of Leeds, not their advisor.
Put briefly, my provisional decision said that I didnt think Leeds had to honour the rate for 
the first application. It hadnt made any promises to the applicants about a rate they would 
receive for that property. And it can, and does, withdraw mortgage rates at any time. It had 
already decided it would be withdrawing this rate imminently. Thats why I thought Leeds 
could have treated its system failure on 27 June in the same way as a rate withdrawal.
Its on that basis that I reached my conclusion that honouring the rate in one case (where a 
DIP had been issued by no full application completed) didnt mean Leeds also had to honour 
the rate in another (where no DIP was completed). 
I understand that the applicants may disagree with this, but I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, Mr P, Mr P 
and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman