DRN-2772672
The complaint
Mr G and Ms K are unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Theyve said that when the base rate increased those increases were passed on 
straight away, but when the base rate fell Coventry chose not to pass those reductions on.
What happened
Mr G and Ms K applied for this mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage 
offer was issued in February 2017 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That 
said Mr G and Ms K were borrowing £627,000 over 26 years on a repayment basis. The 
product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, 
currently 1.25%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of 
its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in March 2017.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr G and Mrs K to tell them the interest rate, and 
therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with 
the terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our 
variable mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base 
Rate and the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your 
mortgage is increasing to 1.50%.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording, this time the interest 
rate was increasing to 1.75%.
In April 2019 Mr G and Ms K started overpaying the mortgage by around £500 a month, and 
then from July 2019 they increased their overpayments to around £1,500 a month.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr G complained to Coventry after the first base rate reduction as he and Ms K were 
unhappy that Coventry hadnt reduced their interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the 
Flexx for Term product the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 24 March 2020 that 
it needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and its priority had been to 
make sure borrowers could access payment deferrals if they needed them, and to reduce 
interest rates for those borrowers who were on higher rates. It reminded Mr G and Ms K that 
there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so they could move to a different product  or 
lender  if they wanted to.
As Mr G and Ms K didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. In their complaint 
form they acknowledged they knew this wasnt a base rate tracker product but said that from 
their research before taking it out theyd seen that the interest rate had always reduced and 
increased in line with the base rate. They said they had financial obligations beyond the 
mortgage, and a reduction in their mortgage payments would have helped them with keeping 
up on their payments towards those other commitments. They said it also would have helped 
them put aside a pot of money as a buffer given the job uncertainties in the current climate.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr G and Ms K aware of the type of interest rate they were 
taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr G and Ms K either taking a new product with 
Coventry or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate was no 
longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 1.75% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Mr G and Ms K didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
The literature should state the rate doesnt get reduced, and the product should be 
advertised as having a rate floor.
Coventry increased the rate in 2017 and 2018 in direct response to the base rate 
rises.
When the base rate rises, savers gain and borrowers lose out, however when the 
base rate decreases, savers and borrowers both lose out.
The rate now is 0.5% higher than when they took the mortgage out, but the base rate 
is 0.15% lower than then. They say that a fair outcome would be for Coventry to 
change the rate to the same as it was when they took the mortgage out, as that 
would still give the lender a net saving of 0.15%.
The investigators analysis wasnt objective as he cited the 2017 and 2018 increases 
were fair due to the extra costs to Coventry associated with the base rate rise, which 
it passed on in full in immediate response. They say the same should apply the other 
way, if the base rate decreases Coventrys costs fall and it is making savings, so the 
investigator was inconsistent to say not reflecting the 2020 base rate reductions was 
fair.
They didnt understand why the loan to value of their mortgage was relevant to the 
case. They feel the investigator was using that to make a judgement that they could 
afford for the rate to not reduce.
They shouldnt have to apply for another product as a result of Coventry behaving unfairly.
All the base rate decreases since the credit crunch have been in response to 
unprecedented events (such as Brexit).
Mr G and Ms K asked that their complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr G and Ms K but I dont 
agree that his analysis wasnt objective. Its the nature of what we do that we generally have 
to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the 
facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what happened and whether, 
bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms 
and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr G and Ms K entered into, and 
whether the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the 
time. I cant consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party 
acting on behalf of Mr G and Ms K.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFM97 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.25%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.25%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr G and Ms K have said that they knew the product wasnt a base rate tracker, but their 
research before they took it out indicated the rate had increased and reduced in line with 
base rate changes. But that hasnt always been the case. Whilst Coventry had changed the 
products rate by the same differential the three previous times the base rate had changed, 
the three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential 
change across the board.
I understand Mr G and Ms K believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr G and Ms K that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly explains 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although Im satisfied Mr G and Ms K werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the 
product, I still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue K booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
5.1 We may change the Interest Rate for any of the following reasons (which may relate 
to circumstances existing at the time or those which we reasonably expect to apply in 
the near future):
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate (or, if that rate has 
ceased to exist, the equivalent lending rate set by the Bank of England or by any 
central bank that has replaced it);
5.1.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
5.1.3 to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
5.1.4 to respond to new or amended statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection; or
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 5.1.1 and 5.1.5; that is, an increase in 
the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage lending. 
But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate changes, it 
doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Mr G and Ms K said This point very aptly demonstrates your analysis is not objective, here 
you cite the increase was fair due to the extra costs to CBS associated with the base rate 
rise, which they passed on in full in 'immediate response'. The very same applies the other 
way, if the BoE rate decreases their costs fall and they are making savings, yet you claim not 
reflecting this in the SVR is fair. I am surprised your analysis has dismissed this inconsistent 
approach so easily.
I agree Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But I dont agree that it must follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr G and Ms Ks mortgage 
in isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way 
of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Coventry didnt have the same level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced previously so, even if 
those events were also unprecedented, theyre not comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has 
shown that the events of 2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied 
that Coventry has shown that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr G and Ms K (customers were paying 4.99% on the 
standard variable rate, compared to the 1.75% Mr G and Ms K were paying). That seems a 
fair decision for Coventry to have made. 
Mr G and Ms K have said that the literature should state the rate doesnt get reduced, and 
that the product should be advertised as having a rate floor. Coventry couldnt advertise the 
product that way as neither are true. Theres no rate floor, and the rate can be reduced. It is 
unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Coventry 
had reduced the interest rate for the product by the same amount of percentage points.
The product Mr G and Ms K have allows them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with Coventry at any time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for 
money. Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr G and Ms Ks 
mortgage if they had wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr G and Ms K 
have said they shouldnt have to apply for another product with Coventry or another lender, 
and they dont have to if they dont want to. But if they dont apply for another product then 
Mr G and Ms K will remain on the 1.75% Flexx interest rate  which Coventry may or may 
not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 1.75% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, if Mr G and Ms K dont agree they have the option to remortgage to another lender 
and the only cost currently of ending this Coventry mortgage is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as 
set out in their mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt be charged if they choose to 
simply change to a new product with Coventry instead. 
Coventry tells me the process to take out a new product is simple, and can be arranged 
through a variety of channels to make it easy for existing customers to get access to new 
interest rate products. So Im satisfied there were no practical or contractual barriers 
preventing Mr G and Ms K from coming out of this mortgage product if they wanted to look 
for another interest rate either with Coventry or elsewhere. It seems Mr G and Ms K could 
have taken out another product, but they chose not to.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr G and Ms Ks frustration that their mortgage interest rate wasnt 
reduced to free up money for them to use elsewhere (or to build up a buffer) Im satisfied 
Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but then 
didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr G and Ms K may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman