DRN-4104170
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the advice she received from TenetConnect Services Limited 
(TenetConnect) to invest into an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). She says the 
investment was too high risk for her. The EIS has lost value and Mrs M has said she is also 
liable for tax. She would like financial compensation.  
What happened
In January 2016 TenetConnect advised Mrs M to invest £35,000 into an EIS. She said she 
was nervous about investing into an EIS rather than her pension but was persuaded to do so 
because of the encouragement and reassurance she received from her adviser.  
In August 2020 Mrs M complained to TenetConnect. She didnt think the EIS investment was 
appropriate for her needs. She said that at the time of the advice she had wanted to reduce 
her working hours and was looking for a tax efficient way to access the retained profits in her 
company in a stress free and low risk way such as a pension. 
Mrs M said she had suffered a 10% loss on the capital invested and could end up losing 
more by the time the illiquid investment could be sold. She had no way of recovering her 
funds and had incurred a £15,000 tax bill. She was never advised of the high level of risk 
involved or that she wouldnt have access to her money after the investment period ended. 
TenetConnect rejected Mrs Ms complaint. It said;
A pension contribution rather than an EIS investment had been discounted because 
Mrs M had wanted to mitigate her income tax which would only have been possible 
with this type of investment product. 
Mrs Ms financial position at the time meant she could look to invest for the medium 
to longer term. 
Mrs M was given significant risk warnings and she had the capacity to question any 
recommendation that was made to her. 
She had been told that she may not be eligible for the EIS benefits or that they could 
be delayed.
It couldnt be held responsible for any performance issues. The recommendation had 
been suitable for her needs and objectives. 
Mrs M had been warned that she could only start to withdraw money from her 
investment in years five, six and seven. And she was warned withdrawing funds 
might be delayed. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mrs M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld. He 
said;
He would have expected for the risks of the investment to have been explained to 
Mrs M rather than just focus on the tax benefits. He thought the investment was too 
high risk for Mrs M. She considered herself to be a low risk investor and he thought 
this was likely to have been the case. 
It wasnt enough to refer to generic risks or point out that the risk of the investment 
had been set out in the Information Brochure. 
Mrs M wouldnt potentially have been able to withdraw funds until the age of 57, 58 
and 59. He concluded the EIS was more illiquid than a pension which had been 
discounted for this reason. He wasnt satisfied the potential longer-term nature of the 
investment was appropriately highlighted. 
He concluded that TenetConnect should pay compensation to Mrs M by comparing 
the performance of the EIS with the average rate from fixed rate bonds as a 
benchmark. It should also pay £300 Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience she 
had been caused. 
TenetConnect didnt agree with the investigator. It said;
Mrs M was capable of understanding the risks associated with the investment.
The suitability report provided risk warnings about the investment. The six-page 
overview brochure Mrs M had been given contained the risk factors and highlighted 
some of the key considerations for an investor. 
Mrs M had total assets over £1m and the amount invested represent 3.33% of her 
total assets or 20% of her cash holdings. It wasnt unreasonable for a client to take a 
high-risk approach with a small percentage of their overall assets. 
Mrs M had been made aware there could be a delay in the tax certificates being 
provided. The tax could be reclaimed when they were received. 
The medium to long term status of investing in the EIS had been explained to Mrs M.
The pension didnt provide the tax reliefs required which was the chief objective at 
the time of the advice.
It didnt agree Mrs M didnt want any risk to her capital as this would discount any 
type of investment. 
The investigator responded to TenetConnects objections and remained of the opinion that 
the complaint should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
Mrs Ms circumstances
Ive considered Mrs Ms circumstances at the time the advice was given as recorded in 
TenetConnects Financial Planning Questionnaire and Summary of Current Position. 
At the time, Mrs M was 51 years of age, married with two children who were financially 
dependent upon their parents. She and her husband jointly had their own home valued at 
around £700,000 with a small mortgage outstanding and also owned a second property 
valued at around £140,000. Mrs M was self-employed and had two pensions from previous employment. She took an annual income of £60,000 as salary and dividends from her 
business. 
Mrs M held £5,000 in a joint bank account with her husband and had cash of just over 
£93,000 and £58,000 in her business bank accounts. She also held a cash ISA of £8,000 
and a stocks and shares ISA valued at £500 but no other investments of significance.     
Mrs Ms total assets were recorded as just over £1m.
So, overall Mrs Ms own investible assets were the £5,000 she jointly held with her husband, 
so £,2500, a cash ISA of £8,000 and £500 in a stocks and shares ISA. All other cash was 
held within her business accounts, but I note £58,000 of that was held within a business 
savings account for corporation tax and VAT purposes. I wouldnt consider property to be 
readily realisable and particularly as Mrs M had two dependent children living at home. 
Its recorded that Mrs Ms primary objective at this time is to access the retained profits held 
within your business as tax efficiently as possible.
Mrs Ms attitude to risk
For this investment, Mrs Ms attitude to risk was recorded by TenetConnect as being 
medium. I have considered how this came about and how TenetConnect made Mrs M aware 
of the varying levels of risk implicit in different investments, particularly bearing in mind Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that she was anything more than a relatively novice investor as she 
only held cash at the time. 
Im satisfied that Mrs M was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or 
experience to make such an investment decision unaided. So, TenetConnect needs to 
demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mrs Ms circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining her attitude to risk.
TenetConnect has provided us with the suitability report from January 2016. It says;
Part 4  Attitude to Risk and Fund Selection [original emphasis]
We discussed your attitude to investment risk and capacity for loss in conjunction 
with our standard approach to investments.
We discussed the various different types of assets, for example cash, bonds, 
equities, property and alternative investments, and you are aware of the risks 
associated with each. We agreed that you are best described as having some 
previous experience of investing in into direct equities.
Later on, in the same document it said;
I consider this form of investment [the EIS] to be suitable for you for the following 
reasons:
Your attitude to risk is such that you are happy to place money in ventures 
that could expose you to potential capital loss but could give attractive 
investment returns;
And in conclusion it said;
Taking everything into account:You confirmed you are a Medium Risk investor on our risk spectrum. You want your 
capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. You are 
comfortable with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some of 
it overseas. You realise that there may be significant falls in the value of your 
investments, and that accepting this risk gives you the potential to achieve better 
long-term returns.
Im not convinced that TenetConnect has been able to show us how it came to the 
conclusion that Mrs M was a medium risk investor, there is very limited evidence from the 
point of sale documents about what was discussed and agreed. And I dont have evidence 
about how the risk of investing was explained to Mrs M  TenetConnects risk spectrum it 
referred to. 
With reference to any previous investment experience Mrs M would have had I note that on 
the application form for the EIS it has a suitability section and Mrs M had to tick boxes about 
any investments she had held within the previous five years. And she ticked no to all of 
difference investment types listed which were  
tax efficient investments (including VCTs, EIA, EZT), 
Entities quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, 
AIM-listed companies or companies that are not listed.
So, while it is recorded elsewhere that Mrs M had some previous experience of direct equity 
investment the above would lead me to question this statement as to her investment 
experience and I think it should have led the adviser to seek more information about this. 
And Im not satisfied that Mrs Ms previous employment history, her current self-employed 
status, and her recorded investment experience lends itself sufficiently in order for me to 
conclude that she fully understood the investment risk. And in particular, the risk associated 
with an EIS. Otherwise I think its likely she would have questioned its suitability for her over 
and above any of the potential tax efficiencies the investment offered. 
I explain this further on in my decision.
The advice to invest
The suitability report states that alternatives to the EIS were considered but not 
recommended;
Pension  I considered the option of placing a lump sum into a pension. However, 
this option was discounted because you already have a significant pension and you 
would not benefit from income tax relief at the point of the investment which is the 
primary reason for making the investment at this time.
ISA/UT/Bond  I considered the option of placing a lump sum into an ISA, Unit trust 
and Investment Bond however, these options were discounted as you would not 
receive income tax relief on the contribution.
It was recommended that Mrs M invest £35,500 into an EIS which is categorised by 
TenetConnect in its suitability letter of 19 January 2016 as being Medium  High. The 
income tax relief and other advantages of the EIS investment were detailed. And it stated the 
EIS was designed to be held for the medium to long term as investments into EIS qualifying 
companies have to be held for at least three years in order to benefit from the upfront tax 
relief.EIS work by giving investors tax relief for income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax 
when they invest into smaller businesses. As they invest into smaller companies the risk is 
greater than with other investments. I dont think it is unreasonable to say they are high risk 
investments which can potentially fall in value and the investor might not get back their 
investment. 
In the suitability letter it states that some of the reasons for recommending the particular 
investment manager for the EIS;
 Investee Companies will benefit from uncapped upside potential, while EIS tax 
reliefs and preferential recoupment terms will help reduce the downside risk.
The investment will be spread across a number of Investee Companies and thus 
also, a number of Entertainment Projects diversifying the specific risk investors are 
exposed to. The reason I feel that this opportunity is particularly suitable is that, while 
investments in unquoted companies can be generally considered as high risk, the 
strategy employed by the Manager allows for uncapped return potential free of 
capital gains tax, and target returns are commensurate with the risk profile of the 
Service.
However, I think the latter part of this statement tries to mitigate the level of risk involved. 
While it states investment in unquoted companies is generally considered to be high risk, it 
then goes on to downplay that risk by referring to uncapped tax-free returns. This comment 
only highlights the potential upside of the tax benefits and, in my opinion, underplays the 
actual risk of the investment itself. It suggests to me that the tax advantages are leading the 
investment advice with lessor consideration to the risk involved.
TenetConnect has said that Mrs M had the capacity to understand what she was investing 
in. It said that Mrs M ran her own business and also cited her previous employment. 
However, I would say that just because Mrs M ran her own business it doesnt necessarily 
follow that she would be confident with making investments or understanding the 
complexities of an investment such as an EIS. I think Mrs M looked to, and was reliant upon 
TenetConnect for its investment expertise. And some of the subsequent queries Mrs M 
raised  such as her concerns about being able to access her capital  would suggest that 
she hadnt fully understood how the investment worked. 
I think this is reiterated in Mrs M chasing for tax certificates in October 2016, not long after 
the investment. In her email she said; 
In hindsight Im not sure I made the right choice here. I will have to take £15k out of 
the company as a dividend to pay the tax bill, which will incur dividend tax and then 
also increase my personal tax liability for this FY. Do you have a rosier view on it 
than that?
Im not convinced that by asking this question so soon after the investment was made shows 
that Mrs M fully understood how the investment worked.
And while it may be TenetConnects opinion that Mrs M had the ability to question what she 
was being recommended I dont think this supersedes TenetConnects responsibility to make 
a suitable recommendation in the first instance.
Based on what I have seen I am satisfied that Mrs M was looking to invest her capital in a 
tax efficient way and, at the instigation of TenetConnect, was interested in exploring the 
potential of EIS investments to achieve that. But Im not persuaded she was made fully aware of or understood the extent of the risk she was taking when balanced against the tax 
benefits. 
In my opinion, TenetConnect placed too much emphasis on the tax benefits of the 
investment which I dont think outweighed the requirement that it had to recommend a 
suitable investment for Mrs M or the potential disadvantages that recommendation exposed 
her to. 
I dont think its enough for TenetComment to refer to the risks as outlined in the Information 
Brochure and similar which are generic risks. The key risks would need to be highlighted to 
Mrs M to ensure she understood how the investment worked. I would have expected to see 
equal information given about the tax advantages of the investment alongside the risks 
involved when it was recommended to Mrs M. I dont think equal weight was given to the 
specific risks of the investment when compared to the potential tax benefits. The majority of 
the information about risk was given in generic statements or within longer documents 
provided about the EIS. 
I note though that its clear from the file that TenetConnect did carry out additional checks for 
the suitability of the investment for Mrs M. The adviser submitted an internal Specialist 
Approval Process request form which was used if the adviser wished to recommend a 
product to a retail client that does not [original emphasis] fall under the definition of a Non 
Mainstream Pooled Investment. That request documents records basic details about Mrs M 
and states that her attitude to risk had been ascertained after discussion and was recorded 
as being 4 out of 10. 
So its clear at this point that Mrs M was a retail investor and the investment that had been 
recommended to her  which it already had been by this point  wasnt necessarily right for 
her because of its non-mainstream pooled investment status as identified by Tenetconnect.
The suitability section of the request says The client has built up a comfortable lifestyle and 
has minor debt with solid income. Significant profits have built up within the company and 
the client would now like to start accessing those funds. The client has a pension fund with 
various investments, but does not currently have any direct investments.
In response various comments were made including;
Based on the file at hand, a perception could be reached that this client has limited 
investment knowledge and experience. It would be useful to understand what 
elements gave comfort that this client had the necessary financial awareness over 
and above investment holdings. 
Based on my understanding of the file I have assumed a high risk specialist exposure 
of c11%....This feels relatively high for a 4/10, as noted in the approval request. I 
would be grateful for your view on how this blends with the wider portfolio. I think 
[there] should also be some consideration to the potential increase in overall 
exposure into high risk VCTs [this was later corrected to EISs] relative to the ATR 
[attitude to risk] as it could become difficult to support.
In reply, its pointed out that the cash position within the business had increased to £200,000 
and amongst other comments it says;
We have discussed the risks of EIS investment with the client.They have 
confirmed that they have held shares in the past within an ISA and directATR at 
present reflects the fact that does not currently hold any direct shares. Hopefully the 
fact that she has in the past and is willing to accept a higher level of risk than she has 
in the past should help to get this case underway.I comment on Mrs Ms willingness to accept a higher level of risk elsewhere as Im not 
convinced that is a correct conclusion. And I would also question the lack of evidence about 
Mrs Ms history of share ownership. 
Part of the response to the above says;
With regards to further supporting the suitability of the recommendation from an 
investment knowledge and experience basis. I note that the client has had some 
direct share experience. It would be useful to provide a wider summary of the softer 
facts in this case. For example, what type of direct shares did she hold, what value 
and how long did she hold them. Is the client fully dependent on the adviser in terms 
of understanding the recommendation or does she have enough knowledge to 
challenge assumptions, recommendations etc. Is there anything in her professional 
capacity of running a business which can be used to provide this wider picture.
Again, part of the reply;
The client runs this business [Mrs Ms business] so is analytical and successful. This 
client is very happy to question and understand the detail and has done so as part of 
our discussions with them. The client would not be led into an investment without 
appreciating the potential risks and we would always present those risks from the 
outset.
We do not have the historical information on the stocks and shares and she would 
need to spend time looking for the information.
Is this information something that we can seek to arrange in the event that the level 
of EIS investment exceeds £36,000, rather than delay things further when we are 
comfortable that she understands the risks associated with this type of business as 
[the adviser] has been clear to outline the nature of the investment.
The product was approved for Mrs M, but I note it was subject to approval conditions, some 
of which were;
The client(s) must be provided with a full copy of any product literature relating to the 
investment.
You providing the client with a full copy of the EIS Information Memorandum, and 
drawing to their attention, in writing, to the risk warnings.
The additional summary supporting the clients overall financial sophistication should 
be included in the suitability report.
The report should make clear that the level of exposure to this strategy is relatively 
high for a client with a risk profile of 4/10 and that this has been mitigated by the 
cash the client has in the remainder of the portfolio.
However, I note that the approval for the investment  including the approval conditions  
was given on 9 February 2016 and the recommendation to invest had already been given to 
Mrs M in TenetConnects letter of January 2016. Im not sure what further information was 
given to Mrs M and when, so cant see whether she was provided with the additional 
information as identified in the approval conditions. 
But in any event, Ive already concluded that I think too much weight was given to the 
potential tax benefits of the investment was given in the recommendation letter compared to 
the high-risk nature of the underlying investments. So while additional information was sought about Mrs Ms circumstances prior to the 
investment because of the high risk nature of the investment Im not convinced that it was a 
useful exercise about the advice already given to Mrs M or that any further action was taken 
because of the concerns that were raised. Mrs M had around £104,000 of investible assets  
at the time of the recommendation letter  and £35,000 represented just under 33% of that. 
So, Mrs M was being advised to invest a third of her available assets into a high-risk 
investment which needed to be held for the medium to long term before she would be able to 
access. 
Mrs M was 52 years of age at the time of the investment. But on the time horizon of five, six 
and seven years of being able to access her capital that would have meant she would have 
been 57, 58 and 59 years of age, if not longer. I think this illiquidity could have posed a 
problem to Mrs M. She was looking to reduce her working hours which  I assume  could 
potentially have impacted on her income. So, I dont think its unreasonable to assume that 
because of this, and Mrs Ms age, that she may have wanted access to her capital at an 
earlier date. 
And as part of Mrs Ms complaint she said that she wouldnt have access to her money after 
the investment period ended The investigator highlighted the information given to Mrs M 
around the time horizon of the EIS investment and I agree with his conclusion that emphasis 
was given to it being sold after three years rather than the longer term. While the suitability 
report does refer to it being a medium to long term investment there are many additional 
comments about it being sold after three years. And it was included within a short term 
section in the report of less than five years where the other options were medium term (five 
to 15 years) and longer term (more than 15 years). 
And as I think it more likely than not that that Mrs M was a relatively inexperienced investor, I 
think she would have concluded from the information she was given that she would have 
access to her capital sooner than was actually the case. And by Mrs M making this one of 
her complaint points, I think this reiterates her lack of understanding.
Mrs M was looking at the potential to invest for tax efficiency, but I dont this should have 
been done at the expense of all other considerations  including risk and Mrs M being able 
to access her funds. Id question whether it was the tax element of the investment that led to 
the conclusion to invest into and EIS in the first place rather than taking an overall view of 
Mrs Ms circumstances, requirements and attitude. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think Mrs M was exposed to a too high-risk investment 
when taking all of her circumstances into consideration. Mrs Ms investible assets at the time 
of the advice were all held in cash. I think it was too much of a leap from a no risk investor to 
a high-risk investor, despite the potential tax advantages. That being said, I dont think it was 
the case that Mrs M only wanted to remain in cash. Its clear she was looking for some 
investment opportunity  preferably with tax efficiencies. 
In its response to the investigator, Tenetconnect said that the assessment at the time 
suggested Mrs M was a medium risk investor and therefore the redress the investigator 
proposed wasnt right. Like the investigator I dont think Mrs M was a medium risk investor. 
There is no evidence of her previous investment experience and all her investible assets 
were in cash. While I cant comment on what alternative investment options may have been 
available to her or what different action she would have taken if shed been different advice, I 
think its reasonable to use a benchmark for redress purposes. And the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds doesnt seem an unreasonable taking in account her likely attitude to risk. Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put   
Mrs M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must TenetConnect do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, TenetConnect must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
TenetConnect should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Pay to Mrs M £300 for distress and inconvenience caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Ingenious 
Shelley 
Media EISStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs M agrees to TenetConnect 
taking ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for it to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs M that she repays to 
TenetConnect any amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, 
TenetConnect should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions (including any tax relief the investor has
already received on this investment) paid out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the
end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or
income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be 
deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs M's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs M would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.

My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Services Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman