DRN-3167271
The complaint
Mr B complains that Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited (Compass) unfairly 
received trail commission from his Pension Plan (PP) held with another provider between 
September 2016 and September 2019. He says he was not aware of the trail commission 
and that Compass hadnt provided him with any service for the commission they received.
What happened
Mr B met with an IFA from a different business, at his request, on 5 April 2011. His IFA 
recommended that Mr B contribute £30,000 into his PP with a different provider. The IFA 
also provided him with a Suitability Letter and illustrations.
Mr B said he called his IFA to discuss the fees detailed in the Suitability Letter. He said he 
understood the following in relation to the Initial Commission and Adviser Fees:
That the PP provider would pay initial commission of £680.40 to his IFA for 
recommending their product; and
The PP provider would also pay a one-off fee of 0.5% i.e. £150 (£30,000 x 0.5%) to 
his IFA.
Mr B said he wasnt expecting the 0.5% fee to be an annual recurring fee. Nor did he expect 
any further charges to be applied to his PP, or any further financial advice from his IFA.
Mr B told this service that he made an additional contribution of £10,000 to his PP on 29 
March 2012 under advice from his IFA. He said that no documentation was provided. But he 
said he expected to pay fees in line with those hed understood he was paying on the 
original £30,000 contribution. 
Mr B remained a client of his IFAs business until 2016. At this point the IFAs business was 
bought by Compass. 
Mr B said that in April 2019, Compass completed  free of charge - an analysis of his 
existing pensions portfolios. He said they did this with the view of offering him financial 
advice and agreeing a fee schedule. He said that this review alerted him to the fact that he 
had been paying what he felt were adviser fees since April 2011.
Mr B contacted his PP provider in September 2019. He said he learnt that he could cancel 
the adviser fees with immediate effect. He said he did this with effect from 28 September 
2019.
Mr B said he questioned why his IFA hadnt contacted him to let him know about the adviser 
fees being taken from his PP. He also said that his PP statements didnt mention the 
adviser fees, despite the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) drive for transparency of 
charges.
Mr B told this service that, between September 2016 and September 2019, when he stopped 
the adviser fees, a total of £962.76 in adviser fees was paid by the PP provider to 
Compass. 
Unhappy with the fees that had been paid from his PP, Mr B complained to Compass in 
October 2019. The complaint was also passed to the IFAs business. Mr B explained what 
hed understood to be the fee basis. And that he felt for the adviser fee to be valid, he 
shouldve been receiving an ongoing advisory service. He asked for a refund of all ongoing 
fees that had been paid to Compass. 
Compass issued their final response letter in November 2019. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said that in spite of their continued efforts to arrange meetings with Mr B to 
review his plans, they had no evidence that he had engaged with them. They said Mr B 
should contact them if he wanted a review. They said that he wouldve been informed of any 
charges that applied for providing the initial advice and the ongoing servicing of the policy at 
the time of the advice. They said that the IFA had received commission payments as part of 
the original agreement and these had continued to be paid in according with the contract to 
Compass. They said that the fees in question could be referred to as trail commission. And 
that this could be paid to IFAs over the lifetime of the product. 
Compass acknowledged that since the RDR had come into effect at the end of 2012, the 
charging for advice and ongoing service had changed. And that trail commission had ceased 
on investment products from when the RDR came into effect. But they said that as Mr Bs 
PP had been sold before the RDR was implemented, the trail commission payments were 
permitted to continue. Therefore they didnt agree to a refund of the trail commission. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service in April 2020. Compass asked this service to 
consider whether the complaint should be directed at them. Our investigator was satisfied 
that the complaint could be considered against Compass as it concerned the regulated 
activity of the payment of commission. Our investigator didnt consider that the merits of the 
complaint should be upheld. He felt that there was no evidence that the trail commission that 
was being paid entitled Mr B to any further services such as regular reviews. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the trail 
commission Compass received didnt entitle Mr B to any further services. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs position is that since Compass provided him with no services or financial advice, they 
shouldnt have received the trail commission from his PP provider. He also said that 
Compass didnt tell him that he couldve stopped the payment of trail commission. He felt 
that Compass shouldve been clearer that he had the right to stop the payments of trail 
commission after the RDR. 
Mr B has asked this service to consider whether it was legal for the trail commission to have 
been paid to Compass, given in his view there was no legally binding contract in place. He 
acknowledged that Compass had taken steps to onboard him as a financial services 
customer, but felt that this showed that no legal contract or suitable relationship existed 
between him and Compass. He also said that if hed asked for a pension review, which he 
said he was entitled to under the terms of his previous advisers Suitability Letter, it wouldnt 
have been possible due to Compass being located relatively far from his home address. Compasss position is that they tried to arrange review meetings with Mr B, but he didnt 
engage with them. And that in any case, they were entitled to continue to receive trail 
commission as the PP had been sold before the RDR had been implemented.
In order to fairly consider this complaint, Ive first considered pre-RDR trail commission.
Pre-RDR commission
Commission is a difficult matter. It was normal with investments in the UK up to 2012. But  
as Mr B has noted - the rules have changed since then. And even though he complained 
considerably after 2012, his complaint relates to the PP he took out in 2011. So the pre-2012 
position is relevant in this case. 
Broadly speaking, a consumer enters into a relationship with an investment adviser. The 
adviser agrees to give advice. And the consumer enters into a separate contract with the 
investment product provider. In the agreement with the adviser the consumer would agree 
that the adviser would be paid via commission paid by the product provider. And in the 
agreement with the product provider the consumer would agree to pay the charges for the 
investment. 
Usually the adviser would agree they would give further advice if asked. But they werent 
obliged to do so. Often the adviser would stay in touch and offer to review matters from time 
to time. This appears to have been the case with Mr Bs original IFA.
The agreement as regards the payment of the commission involved an agreement between 
the adviser and the product provider. The product provider was paying the adviser for 
introducing the consumers business to it. The consumer was not party to that agreement. 
The terms on which the product provider paid the adviser, how much, when paid, any terms 
relating to repayment and so on were matters between the product provider and the adviser. 
The product provider might pay the commission in one lump sum. Or more normally it would 
pay part as a lump sum and the rest by instalments for as long as the investment continued 
to exist. The payment of the commission in instalments in that way is often called trail 
commission. And despite the fact that payment was paid over a long period, the payment 
was still for the introduction of the business to the product provider. 
Its true that the product provider was able to pay the commission to the adviser as result of 
the charges it made to the consumer for the investment. But the consumer didnt directly pay 
the commission, the product provider did. 
Whether or not there was any obligation on the adviser to give any kind of ongoing service 
was a matter between the consumer and the adviser depending on what theyd agreed 
between them. It wasnt determined by whether or not the product provider agreed to pay 
trail commission. The product provider paid the adviser for the service the adviser provided 
to it, not for the service provided to the consumer. 
In this case Mr Bs original adviser had an arrangement with the investment provider and trail 
commission was paid. That advisers firm sold the right to receive that trail commission to 
Compass as part of a bulk transfer to Compass. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the original Suitability Letter produced by Mr Bs original 
adviser. This said that Mr B had chosen to pay for the advice by commission. The letter also 
said that the commission would be taken as a one-off fee plus an ongoing 0.5% annual fund-
based commission, which would cover the businesss ongoing administration costs. The 
letter stated: we have included a 0.5% per annum charge to cover our ongoing administration costs in 
looking after your policy. Therefore the total annual management charge to your plan based 
on the current fund choice and fund value is 1.25%.
Other documentation relating to the initial advice  including an illustration of pension 
benefits provided by the PP provider on 4 April 2011 - shows the single commission 
payment upfront and the ongoing 0.5% annual fund-based fee. And further documentation 
from the PP provider (dated 5 April 2012) relating to the 2012 contribution Mr B made into 
his plan also clearly shows the same fee basis. 
While I acknowledge that Mr B said he wasnt aware of the fee basis, Im satisfied that the 
documentation he was given at the time of both the initial advice and the subsequent 
additional contribution shows that he was made aware what the charges would be. And 
while I acknowledge that Mr B mightve expected to get something in return for the trail 
commission once his business had been transferred to Compass, Im satisfied that the trail 
commission didnt in itself create any obligation on Compass to provide a service to Mr B. 
I next considered whether ongoing services were specifically agreed through the trail 
commission.
Were ongoing services specifically agreed through the trail commission?
I understand that Mr B considers that, as his original Suitability Letter covered Reviews, he 
expected the same service to be provided by Compass. However, Ive no evidence that 
Reviews wouldve been provided free of charge to Mr B with his original adviser. I say this 
because the Suitability Letter refers specifically to the advice to set up the PP. And includes 
details of the charges for that advice. 
The Suitability Letter did include the following paragraph:
Reviews 
As mentioned earlier, it is imperative that the fund remains in line with your risk profile during 
the term of the plan as a fund(s) chosen at outset will not necessarily be the most 
appropriate fund(s) for you as you approach retirement, as your risk profile may well change 
during that time. I would recommend that you contact me on a regular basis in order to 
review this for you. At this moment in time, your chosen fund will be rebalanced by the fund 
manager but should you decide to switch to individual funds at some point in the future, it is 
important to ensure these funds match your risk profile. Again, I will be more than happy to 
assist you should you so wish.
Im not persuaded that this paragraph meant that the original adviser was prepared to do this 
work as part of the initial fee. I say this because Mr B didnt enter into an agreement with his 
original adviser for ongoing advice. He simply arranged for the advice he needed to set up 
the PP. So I dont consider that this section in the Suitability Letter meant that Mr B was 
entitled to further ongoing advice without further charge. As Im satisfied that there was no 
requirement on the original adviser to provide further ongoing advice without additional 
charge, it follows that Im also satisfied that there was no requirement on Compass  after 
theyd purchased the book of business  to do so either. 
Mr B has questioned whether he was, in fact, a customer of Compass. He said he didnt 
have a legal relationship with them, so queried how the payment of trail commission could 
be justified to a company without a contract with him, who didnt provide him with a service.
He said that hed never signed a document or otherwise formally agreed to pay the trail commission. And that Compass had never reviewed his PP. 
Compass said that theyd sent Mr B a client update sheet after the original advisers 
business had been transferred to them in 2016. But they had no record of him returning the 
sheet. They said that theyd sent Mr B an email on 1 November 2017, inviting him to meet 
with one of their advisers. But Mr B had declined the meeting as the office location wasnt 
suitable for him. They said theyd left it with Mr B to make contact with them if he wanted to 
discuss his finances with them. They said theyd next attempted to arrange a meeting with 
Mr B in April 2019, when they sent him an analysis which highlighted the 0.5% annual trail 
commission. 
From what Ive seen, Mr B was a customer, or potential customer of Compass. I say this 
because Compass tried to engage with Mr B to provide him with financial services, which I 
consider made him a potential customer. I acknowledge that Mr B didnt engage with 
Compass, noting that the location of their offices wasnt suitable for him. 
Sometimes, it was specifically agreed that trail commission would entitle a consumer to 
further services, including regular reviews and other types of policy management. But from 
what Ive seen, the original advice didnt entitle Mr B to any further services. So I dont 
consider that Compass took on any obligations in respect of Mr B when they acquired the 
business. 
Compass have shared details from the sale agreement.  This confirms that when they 
bought the business that had provided the initial advice to Mr B, no ongoing services had to 
be provided. The sale agreement did, however, allow Compass the opportunity to market 
financial services to the clients they were taking on.  
Therefore, I dont consider that Compass did anything wrong when they continued to take 
the trail commission, despite providing no further advice, after the acquisition of the client 
book which included Mr B. 
Other issue
Mr B told this service that hed asked Compass during a call if he was paying them any fees. 
And that they had told him he wasnt. 
This service asked Compass to provide a copy of the call, but they were unable to. However, 
they said that as Mr B wasnt on a service proposition, he wasnt paying monthly fees. They 
said that his complaint related to trail commission from the original sale, and that they were 
permitted to continue to receive the trail commission under their regulators rules. They said 
that they hadnt received any actual fees, just the trail commission to which they were 
entitled.
Mr B acknowledged that Compass had probably not intended to mislead him about whether 
or not he had paid them fees, but felt that they had clearly benefited from the continued 
payment of trail commission, to his detriment.
In their final response letter, Compass acknowledged that the trail commission wouldve 
been taken out of the PP, and that it may not have been clear to Mr B what, if anything, he 
was paying.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence. As I noted earlier, the total charges were 
documented in the original policy document. But they werent shown on the PP providers 
annual plan statements. I acknowledge that it wouldve been helpful if the charges were 
shown there, or if Compass had told Mr B what they were receiving from his PP provider. I suspect that if the charges had been shown, Mr B would have removed Compass from his 
PP account earlier. But Compass werent obliged to tell Mr B about the trail commission they 
were still receiving on his account  they were entitled to rely on the trail commission having 
been clearly set out at the time of the initial advice. From what Ive seen, it was clearly set 
out at that point. Therefore, Im unable to fairly say that Compass did anything wrong here. 
In summary, I dont consider that Compass should refund the trail commission theyve 
received. Although I understand why Mr B has raised this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Compass were entitled to continue to receive the trail commission, without providing any 
further service, after they bought the business. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman