DRN-3880299
The complaint
Mr W complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF.
What happened
In May 2009, while they were on holiday in Spain, Mr and Mrs W bought a holiday club 
membership.
According to the agreement they signed, Mr and Mrs W were applying for membership of an 
Isle of Man company, which Ill refer to as V, and were buying points rights from it. The 
points could then be used each year for accommodation provided by a vacation club. The 
agreement was expressly subject to English law; any disputes were to be referred to the 
English courts.
The agreement was funded in part with a loan from BPF to Mr W. The loan was arranged at 
the time of the sale and was for just over £28,000. Repayments were nearly £500 a month. 
The loan was repaid in 2014. Mr and Mrs W say that they were only able to take two 
holidays before the loan was repaid, and they calculate that they repaid around £26,000 in 
total.
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs W contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to say that 
they wanted to complain about BPF. They explained that they had been subjected to high 
pressure sales techniques and were offered incentives to sign up for the club membership 
immediately. They said too that they were not given an opportunity to consider the 
agreement before they signed it. They noted as well that the loan funds had been paid to 
one of the holiday companies involved, not to them.
Because Mr and Mrs W had not referred their complaint to BPF, we were not able to 
consider it at that point. Both we and Mr and Mrs W contacted BPF, so it could have an 
opportunity to address their concerns. BPF did not respond, however, other than with 
holding letters, so an investigator considered Mr Ws complaint about the loan. She did not 
believe however BPF had acted unfairly and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr W did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that the case be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. I did that and issued a provisional decision.  
In my provisional decision, I noted that the investigators view had focused on whether the 
loan agreement was likely to have created an unfair relationship within the meaning of 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. I agreed that it had not, but said that Mr and 
Mrs Ws primary complaint had however been that they were misled by V when they bought 
the holiday club membership and that Mr W, as borrower, had a claim against BPF in the 
same way he had a claim against V. I thought however that a court would be likely to 
conclude any such claim would now be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 and that it 
would not therefore be fair to uphold the complaint about BPF. 
BPF accepted my provisional findings; Mr W did not respond to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr and Mrs W bought the holiday club membership jointly and both complained to 
BPF, only Mr W was a party to the loan agreement  so only he is eligible to refer the 
complaint about BPF to this service. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in  connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender. 
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. The 
purchase agreement was made between Mr and Mrs W on the one hand and V on the other. 
The loan agreement however indicates that the retailer was a different company, L. That 
indicates that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements with L, rather than 
with V. That might mean that section 75(1) does not apply here  although that depends in 
part upon the relationship between V and L. I have nevertheless approached this case on 
the basis that either: (i) the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between 
BPF and V; or (ii) that such arrangements were between L and BPF but that V and L were 
associates within the meaning of the Consumer Credit Act. In either case, section 75(1) 
could apply.
In any event, under section 56, any statements made by the broker are to be treated as 
statements made on behalf of BPF.
I must therefore consider the claims that Mr W and his wife were misled about the holiday 
club membership.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs W about the membership 
at the time of the sale. They have not elaborated either on what they were told which was 
not true.
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs W into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 4 May 2009, 
so that is the date on which any cause of action accrued. They did not however raise any 
complaint with BPF until October 2019, more than ten years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against V would be made outside the 
relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against V is now out of time under the 
Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether it would be fair to hold BPF liable for the 
actions of V. Given the very real possibility that a court would say that the claims against V 
are time-barred, I do not believe it would be.
Other matters
It is not for me to say either whether Mr and Mrs might be able to bring a claim against V or 
any other party involved in the holiday club. This decision concerns only Mr Ws complaint 
about BPF.
Finally, Mr W has noted that the loan funds were paid to the holiday club, not to him. Where 
a loan is taken out for a specific purpose (called restricted credit in the Consumer Credit 
Act), that is normal and is one of the conditions which must be met for section 75(1) of the 
Act to apply.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman