DRN-3811372
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds) mis-sold her 
home insurance policy to her as it didnt include buildings cover. 
All references to Lloyds include its agents. 
What happened
Ms O took out a home contents policy via Lloyds in 2015. She said this was done over the 
phone. In 2019 Ms O made a claim on her policy after she discovered a leak at her flat. 
Ms Os insurer rejected the claim and said that Ms O did not have buildings cover with it and 
that an escape of water claim would not be covered under her contents policy. 
Ms O complained and said that her policy had been mis-sold by Lloyds and that she had 
never been given appropriate advice. She said she wanted all her premiums back. Lloyds 
rejected the complaint. It said it was no longer able to access information about what Ms O 
had been told when she took the policy out as it was a long time ago, but it said that Ms O 
was being sent documents each year which stated that her policy only included contents 
cover. It said its letters made Ms O aware of the importance of checking the documents to 
make sure the policy was suitable for her needs. It added that she was also provided with its 
contact details in the event that she had any questions or wanted to make amendments to 
her policy. 
Ms O didnt agree and complained to us saying that the policy Lloyds sold her was not what 
she needed. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think the policy 
had been mis-sold. She acknowledged that the sales call was no longer available and so 
she had to rely on the evidence available to determine, on balance, whether the policy was 
mis-sold. She said this was not an advised sale and, therefore, that Lloyds had not 
recommended the policy to Ms O.  She added that during the sale Lloyds would likely have 
provided Ms O with an overview of the key features and exclusions and, on balance, would 
have said that this was a policy that only covered Ms Os home contents. Our investigator 
also said that Ms O was sent policy documents by Lloyds over the years which showed 
clearly that this was a contents policy. She added that Ms O had contacted Lloyds and her 
insurer on a number of occasions over the years to discuss potential claims and that this 
would indicate she was aware of what her cover was for.
 
Ms O didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
for Ms O but for the reasons I provide below I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Those who sell insurance have a responsibility to provide clear, fair and non-misleading 
information about the cover provided, so that consumers can make an informed decision 
about whether or not to buy it. To make an informed decision about whether to take a policy 
out, a consumer should be made aware of the type of cover provided and any significant or 
unusual restrictions. If a policy is sold on an advised basis this means that the seller is 
recommending that particular policy to the consumer and has a duty to ensure the policy is 
suitable for them. On the other hand in a non-advised sale the consumer is supported in 
deciding for themselves whether or not the policy is suitable for them. 
As our Investigator said due to the length of time that has passed, the sales call is not 
available. So I have to rely on other evidence that is available to me in order to decide 
whether it is most likely that Lloyds acted in line with the above when it sold the policy. The 
evidence Ive been provided with includes Lloyds system notes and copies of some of the 
renewal and policy documents.
 
The renewal documents we have been provided with say that it is for Ms O to check that the 
policy was still right for her needs. And Lloyds told us it was for Ms O to read the documents 
and decide whether the policy was suitable for her needs. So, on balance, like our 
Investigator said, this suggests that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis meaning that 
Lloyds did not recommend this policy to Ms O and did not have a duty to ensure it was 
suitable for her. I think this is further supported by the fact that Lloyds only sells policies on 
behalf of one insurer and it acts for that insurer when doing so and not for the consumer   
Ms O in this case.
Lloyds said it provided Ms O with policy documents and renewal documents each year since 
the policy was taken out, so she would have been aware of what her policy covered from the 
start. Lloyds provided a screenshot from its system which shows the dates the documents 
would have been sent out. Ms O herself told us that she had received policy documents over 
the years and we know that she also tried to claim on the policy in 2017 and 2018 so she 
must have had some information regarding her policy at the time. I have also seen her 
renewal letter from 2018 which is addressed to Ms O and sent to the correct address. So, on 
balance, I think Lloyds did enough to make sure Ms O received this. And overall, based on 
what Ive seen, I think on balance Lloyds did provide Ms O with information about her policy 
over the years. 
Looking at the renewal and the policy documents I can also see that they clearly state that 
this is a home contents policy. Its written on the first page of the policy document and it is 
also in large letters on the policy schedule. So I think the information Lloyds provided to 
Ms O regarding her policy cover was clear. 
Ms O said that when she took the policy out she told Lloyds that she owned her home 
through a shared ownership scheme and that, based on that information, Lloyds sold her a 
contents insurance policy. She said the policy was mis-sold because she didnt need a 
contents policy but a buildings one. Ive considered Ms Os point but Im afraid I dont agree. 
Just because she owns a home under a shared ownership scheme I dont think this means 
she doesnt need contents cover. Her contents policy is there to cover her belongings and 
I dont see any reason why the policy would not have been of any use to her.
As I said above Ms O contacted her insurer in 2017 and 2018 regarding two potential claims 
regarding her mobile phone under her contents policy which she later withdrew. From what 
Ive seen on one of them she decided not to proceed as she was not happy with the excess 
she had to pay. I think its more likely than not that Ms O was aware she had contents cover 
at that time  as such claims for loss of or damage to her phone would probably not have 
been covered under a buildings policy. And, I think the fact that she tried to make claims under the policy indicates to me that she knew this was a policy that provided some use for 
her. 
 
As Ive already said I dont have the sales call to hear what was discussed at the time when 
the policy was taken out. But based on the evidence I have seen I think, on balance, Lloyds 
did enough to provide Ms O with information about her policy that was clear and not 
misleading. And as I said above I see no reason why a contents policy would not have been 
of any use to her.
Even if I did think that the policy was initially mis-sold I think that Ms O had the opportunity to 
cancel the policy and/or take out buildings cover once she received her policy documents 
and her renewal documents each year thereafter if she thought the policy was unsuitable. 
But Ms O didnt seek to cancel her contents policy until years later and it wasnt until 2019 
that she said she was unhappy about it.
  
For the reasons above I have decided that, on balance, Lloyds did not mis-sell the policy. As 
such, I dont think it needs to pay any compensation to Ms O in relation to this.
My final decision
For the reasons above I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman