DRN-3046786
The complaint
Mr P complains about errors made by Curtis Banks Limited (Curtis) in the administration of
his investments in his self-invested pension scheme (SIPP). 
What happened
Mr P complains that Curtis has not been providing the level of administrative support for the
investments in his SIPP. His SIPP investments included a number of commercial properties.
He said that Curtis had made a huge number of errors including, overpaid VAT, not
presented property accounts clearly and there were missing rent payments. During the
pandemic rent demands had been sent by post and some were sent to the registered office
address. Curtis had also been slow in replying to his queries and resolving various problems.
This made him look incompetent and increased the amount of work he needed to do. Their
errors meant there was a risk of non-recovery from the tenant due to tardiness in acting on
instructions. He wanted to remove Curtis as administrator and require them to meet the cost
of moving to a new provider.
Curtis responded to each issue. It said it had decided to consolidate the administration of all
properties into one office. It accepted that when this was done for the properties in Mr Ps
SIPP, initially they were allocated to the wrong plan type. Correcting this meant that for a
while the information available wasnt reliable. However once this was done it had worked
with Mr P to go through any outstanding issues.
It accepted that it had overpaid VAT due to an error when the administration changed to the
new office. It said this had been rectified.
In the past Mr P had issued rent invoices but tenants paid Curtis. Curtis said this was no
longer possible and it had taken this inhouse. It said its controls and processes eliminated
any risk to their client and gave greater visibility for the clients as to the transactions on their
property accounts. It felt that once the migration was complete it would lift the burden on Mr
P. It did suggest it could add a property manager if he preferred and provided a sample
property management agreement.
It said it had ensured property accounts were always visible online and that there were no
missing rental payments. It said its accounts were not real time as it was not a bank. As a
result, there was a delay between receipt of funds and them appearing in the account. Its
new system allowed it to have a separate account for each property to make transactions
clearer, as such his SIPP would now have four property accounts. In addition, there was a
central property account and personal account (from which fees were taken).
It agreed that there had been a lot of transactions on the property accounts, but this was due
to the initial error in setting them up as the wrong type. Going forward this issue should not
continue.
It noted that it had received but not replied to some queries as it wanted to ensure the
correct team replied. It also accepted that it had sent an incorrect rent invoices but this was
corrected. There was also a data breach when extra insurance information was sent.
It apologised that it could not send invoices by email at present. In reality, it felt rental should
be paid by standing order or direct debit with physical invoice sent if there was non-payment.
It had supplied all tenants with the correct bank details and references for payment. It noted
that sometimes tenants dont use the correct references. This caused delays in rent showing
in the account.
It noted the complaint about an unanswered secure message sent in October 2020 but was
satisfied it had been dealt with by late October 2020.
It accepted it had delayed instructing a solicitor while migration of the accounts was going
on, but this was actioned, and the tenant had now agreed a payment plan.
It acknowledged that it had not supplied copy insurance invoices as requested. It accepted
that an issued rent invoice did not reflect the tenants current payment plan and apologised.
It said it would make manual adjustments in future to reflect monthly payment that were not
the norm.
It said it would not waive its transfer out fee of £250 plus VAT as there had not been any
genuine administrative error. It did not accept the suggestion it should meet all costs
involved in transferring his plan and commercial property investments to another provider.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said that Curtis accepted the findings of the 
investigator regarding Mr Ps complaint, so I didnt need to revisit these in detail. There had 
been errors, many of which arose from the restructuring of internal processes which Curtis 
was s entitled to do. However, Mr P was also entitled to receive a good level of service 
notwithstanding any internal changes. I didnt think he had. I referred to the overpayment of 
VAT.
Where there was a mistake Mr P was entitled to be put back in the position, he would have 
been in but for the mistakes(s). I could therefore make an award for any financial loss and 
distress and inconvenience suffered.
Mr P had not suggested that he had suffered financial loss as a consequence of the errors.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award was not intended
to punish Curtis but to reflect the impact on Mr P. I thought the mistakes created additional
work for Mr P that would not have been needed. I thought the changes to the administration
within Curtis caused several problems that had caused Mr P a lot of frustration. I noted
however that once identified the issues had been rectified (such as the overpaid VAT and
incorrect references on invoices etc). But I thought the mistakes had undermined his
confidence in Curtis and Mr P had to spend additional time questioning records to ensure
they were correct, chasing up demands and checking receipt of correct rental payments. I
also thought the number of issues involved increased the impact on Mr P. In the light of this I
thought an award of £300 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Curtis indicated that as it didnt think it made an administrative error it would not waive its
transfer out fee. But I didnt agree. I thought that Curtis had made at least one administrative
error in the overpayment of VAT. Given this I thought it would be reasonable for it to waive 
its transfer out fee of £250 plus VAT should Mr P within six months of my final decision 
request Curtis to start the process of transfer to a new provider.
However, I was aware that such a transfer would be time consuming and expensive as it
involved property and associated legal fees. Those are legitimate costs of transfer. I noted
that errors had been rectified and I didnt think the errors had been so serious as to justify
a direction that Curtis should pay all legitimate expenses of such a transfer.I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mr P 
£300 for distress and inconvenience and should waive its transfer out fee of £250 plus VAT 
should Mr P apply to transfer his SIPP to another provider within six months after the date of 
my final decision.
Curtis did not respond.
Mr P said that what he wanted was a single point of contact rather than dealing with an army 
of unqualified junior staff. He didnt think £300 was compensation for the time he had to 
spend doing their job for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what Mr P has said I have not changed my mind. The purpose of an 
award for distress and inconvenience is to reflect the impact on Mr P it is not intended to be 
compensation for the time spent in solving the problems created by the mistakes Curtis has 
made 
In deciding upon the amount of the award I have considered that Curtis took steps to correct 
the mistakes. I have also considered that they caused frustration and annoyance that was 
more than Mr P might have expected from day to day life and there had been repeated 
errors that required reasonable effort to sort out and took several weeks to resolve.
For the reasons already given above and in my provisional decision I remain of the view that 
an award of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note that Mr P would like a single point of contact. While that seems a very reasonable 
request, I cannot direct Curtis how to run its business so cannot make an award to that 
effect. 
Putting things right
 I remain of the view that I should uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited 
should pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience and should waive its transfer out fee of 
£250 plus VAT should Mr P apply to transfer his SIPP to another provider within six months 
after the date of my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Curtis Banks Limited should pay Mr P £300 for 
distress and inconvenience and should waive its transfer out fee of £250 plus VAT should Mr 
P apply to transfer his SIPP to another provider within six months after the date of my final 
decision.
Such amount of £300 should be paid to Mr P within 30 days of this service notifying Curtis 
Banks Limited that Mr P has accepted this decision. If Curtis Banks Limited fails to make 
payment within 30 days of the date of such notification it shall pay interest at the rate of 8% 
per annum simple on the amount of £300 from the date of this decision to the date of actual 
payment to Mr P. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman