DRN-4312423
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
What Mr S says
Mr S explained that he left his phone and debit card in his jacket pocket whilst at an event 
with other people. He said he went upstairs and later, when he came downstairs, his phone 
was missing. Some hours later the phone reappeared. 
During that time, a transaction was made from his account using his phone and debit card 
which Mr S didnt recognise. He contacted Barclays about the payment and asked for a 
refund. 
Barclays raised a fraud claim but then suffered a series of problems with the progress of the 
investigation. They didnt think that Mr S had returned paperwork theyd sent him and closed 
the investigation. They later realised Mr S had returned it within the timescales they set. 
There were further problems with the investigation which resulted in Barclays offering a 
small payment to Mr S to recognise their handling of his claim.
Barclays declined to make a refund for the payment that Mr S didnt recognise, believing he 
was responsible for it. Mr S raised a complaint, but Barclays didnt change their position and 
Mr S then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review.
An investigator was assigned to look into the complaint and asked both parties for 
information about the circumstances.
Mr S explained that after leaving his phone and debit card in his jacket pocket, a payment 
was made using the online banking app on his phone. He was upstairs at the time and other 
people were in the same property. He said he was drunk, and others could have seen him 
enter his passcode for his phone which he thinks was the same for his online banking. Mr S 
said his debit card was still in his wallet and his phone was returned to him within a day or 
so. 
Barclays said that they couldnt see how anyone else had compromised Mr Ss account. 
They confirmed the payment was made from his normal device (phone), using an IP address 
that hed used before. Also, that a five digit security code was required to access the online 
banking app. The new payment was confirmed after a separate One Time Passcode (OTP) 
that was sent to his phone. This was required to be input into the banking app in order to 
authorise the new payee.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It was stated 
that:
There was no evidence to suggest how someone had obtained security details to 
bypass the phone and the banking app and use the OTP.
There were additional log ins to the banking app around the time of the disputed 
transaction, including a transfer to an existing payee.
Overall, there was no evidence to support another person being involved in the 
transaction.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome and further stated:
He denied hosting a party.
He was at a friends house after an argument with his family.
It wouldve been reported to the police, but Mr S didnt know everyone at the house.
Mr Ss SIM card was in a Nokia phone and not the main one he used for his banking 
The Nokia phone didnt have a passcode and wouldve been easy to access.
He confirmed his passcodes for the phone and the banking app were the same.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr S liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr S authorised the 
transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the internet banking app conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Mr S is disputing one large payment made using his banking app that was operated from his 
mobile phone. In order to make the transaction, both the phones security code and the 
banking apps security code was required. Mr S says he hadnt told anyone else about the 
code (or any of his banking codes/passwords) and the phone had the same five-digit passcode as his banking app.
He believes someone saw him entering the code whilst at a premises with other people, 
some of whom he didnt know. Having looked at the security settings for his phone he had at 
the time, the manufacturers information says the phone can have a standard six-digit code, a 
four-digit code or a longer alpha numeric code. I couldnt see anywhere where it could have 
a five-digit code.
Of course, it may be possible to put a five-digit code in, but I also have to consider the 
broader circumstances described by Mr S. He says (in his earlier call with our service) that 
he was hosting a party and was drunk. He also said his phone was in his jacket pocket left 
downstairs whilst he was upstairs. 
In his response to the investigators outcome, Mr S introduced that he had another phone 
with the SIM card in (it would be the phone with the SIM card that would receive the OTP), 
which would make it easy for someone to access the OTP in order to finalise the transaction 
made using the internet banking app. This was new information to the complaint and 
changed somewhat Mr Ss earlier version of events.
Originally hed only spoken of his main phone being in his jacket pocket and being taken, to 
be returned later. Mr S didnt mention another phone which now seems to have received the 
OTP but was unlocked and easy to access. Its not clear if this was taken at the time with his 
other phone/returned or just left wherever it was originally. I found the change in events 
difficult to comprehend, particularly when M S had already told our service what had 
happened.
He's disagreed with the description of the party and whether he was hosting it, but for the 
purposes of this complaint, I dont think its particularly relevant. What is relevant is how 
likely is it that someone can successfully bypass two sets of security and make a payment 
from his account to confirm it via OTP?
Looking at the log ins to the banking app, Mr S made various transfers both before and after 
the disputed one but didnt raise the fraud claim with the bank until about four days after it 
happened. Hes said he raised it when he first noticed it, but at the time he was sending 
payments to a regular payee and because of this transaction, the account was well into an 
overdraft. Im surprised he didnt notice the disputed transaction as it was the single largest 
one made through the account by some margin.  
After an objective review of Mr Ss complaint, I think its implausible to conclude they werent 
authorised without stronger evidence to the contrary. That means I think its more likely than 
not that Mr S carried out these transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did 
so. Whilst Im sure Mr S will disagree with me, I wont be asking Barclays to make any 
payment towards him or remove the debt created by the disputed transaction.
I noted the mistakes made by Barclays and the compensation they made to Mr S. I dont 
intend to change this and I think Barclays offer was both fair and reasonable. Mr S also had 
other complaints relating to treatment he received by Barclays. As this particular complaint 
was only related to the disputed transactions, I havent further considered any other 
complaint. If Mr S wishes to bring other complaint(s) to our service regarding any other 
issues hes raised, hes free to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman