DRN-3536761
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains that The Salvation Army General Insurance 
Corporation Ltd (SAGIC) declined a claim made against its commercial combined insurance 
policy and avoided the policy. Reference to SAGIC includes its underwriting agent.
The director of K, whom Ill refer to as Mr A, and his representative brings the complaint on 
Ks behalf. For ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and comments of the representative as 
being those of K.
What happened
K took out a commercial combined insurance policy with SAGIC through a broker in 2018. 
Ks premises suffered fire damage following an act of arson, so it made a claim against the 
policy for damage to stock, loss of income and the cost of repair to the building.  
SAGIC appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster found Mr A, had 
previously been involved in another business, which Ill refer to as B. In 2016, B and one of 
its co-directors were subject to prosecution for breaching EU Marketing Rules. Later in 2017, 
a Hygiene Emergency Prohibition Notice was also issued. During this time Mr A was a 
director of B. 
SAGIC said Mr A ought to have known about the prosecutions and prohibition order against 
B and his co-director and should have disclosed this to the broker. As this information hadnt 
been disclosed, the statement of fact was incorrect. It concluded this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying breach, which entitled it to avoid the policy from inception, retain all 
premiums paid and decline the claim. In addition to this, SAGIC said K also breached a 
special condition of the policy  L40 No smoking. SAGIC said this is a contractual term 
which if breached, may entitle an insurer to reject a claim, regardless of whether any 
prejudice is suffered. SAGIC believes the breach of this condition would have the increased 
the risk of fire damage, even if it did not cause the actual damage.  
K didnt agree with there was any breach of fair presentation of risk. In summary, it said: 
The insurance proposal was made on behalf of K, not any other business. 
Any reference to you or any director or partner can only relate to K and its director. 
The question in the statement of fact, doesnt ask about any previous business or 
any partner or director in any other business. 
The statement of fact was completed by the underwriter but even if it had been 
completed by K, the answers to the questions were correct. 
Even if there had been a breach of fair presentation of risk (which it denies) the 
underwriter would have underwritten the risk and most probably on the same terms. 
Special condition L40  No smoking  it denies any breach but in any event the fire 
occurred as a result of arson therefore it cannot be said that a breach of the special 
condition increased the risk of the fire occurring. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think SAGIC had acted unfairly. He 
said, in summary: 
A clear question was asked about any business, director or partner and so this 
should have reasonably been understood by K. 
K should have made SAGIC aware of the prosecutions and prohibition order.
He was satisfied that had the relevant information on the prosecutions and prohibition 
order been provided, SAGIC wouldnt have provided cover. 
Although he felt that breach of the special condition couldnt be relied on because it 
wasnt the cause of the fire, he concluded that in any event SAGIC acted fairly by 
avoiding the policy and declining Ks claim due to its failure to disclose information to 
SAGIC about the prosecutions and prohibition order.   
K dont agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said SAGIC has not addressed or clarified the concerns raised by the broker 
about SAGICs working practices. During the investigation of the complaint, there has been 
no mention of the broker or its view that SAGICs decision is wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome K was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
As this complaint is about SAGIC, the insurer and underwriter of the policy, I have only 
considered their actions and not those of the broker. Any complaint against the broker would 
need to be raised separately. 
Following the investigators view, K said it remained unhappy because SAGIC hadnt 
responded to the concerns raised by the broker or addressed the brokers view that SAGICs 
decision was wrong. I want to assure K Ive read and carefully considered everything it has 
said. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the 
points raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties 
have raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by K, and by SAGIC, to reach 
what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of the complaint centres on SAGICs decision to avoid the policy and reject Ks 
claim.
As I understand it, the following events took place in the lead up to the claim: 
May 2016  Mr A appointed as director of B
November 2016  B and one of its directors prosecuted of a criminal offence and 
fined
July 2017  inception of SAGIC policy in Bs name
September 2017  K incorporated on Companies House
September 2017  Prohibition order issued against B 
February 2018  B dissolvedJuly 2018  Bs policy with SAGIC renewed (still in Bs name)
August 2018  following a notification of renewal, K contacted broker to change 
name on the insurance policy to K
When considering whether SAGIC acted fairly, the starting point is the Insurance Act 2015. 
Under this Act, commercial policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to the insurer when taking out and renewing a policy. 
The insurance Act says disclosure needs to be made as follows: 
  disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to 
know, or
  failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of 
revealing those material circumstances. 
For SAGIC to take any action at all it needs to show K didnt do this and that it made whats 
known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
The statement of fact that was completed on Ks behalf and which K confirms was 
completed correctly, included the following statement: 
P2  General questions
Have you or any other director or partner in any business: 
ever been convicted of, or is there any prosecution pending for any criminal 
offence? 
ever been subject to a County Court Judgement?
ever been declared bankrupt or Insolvent? 
ever had an HSE intervention or prosecution or Notice of intended intervention or 
prosecution?
ever had any insurance policies Declined, Terminated, Refused Renewal or 
Subjected to any Special Terms? 
All the above questions had been answered no. 
Although K said the statement of fact was completed by the underwriter following a 
conversation with the broker, they believe the questions were answered correctly when 
answering no. 
SAGIC has provided information which demonstrates what while Mr A was a director of B, 
both B and a co-director were subject to prosecution and a prohibition order was also issued 
against B. This is not disputed by K. K said the questions in the statement of fact doesnt ask about any previous business or any 
partner or director in any other business. It believes the questions were answered correctly 
because neither Mr A nor K have been subject to any prosecutions or interventions. 
Although the statement of fact could be clearer, I believe the reference to any other director 
in any business makes it sufficiently clear that SAGIC would have wanted to know about any 
other business Mr A was involved in and also any other directors linked to those businesses. 
Taking Mr As circumstances into consideration  previously a director of B, I believe he 
ought to have known about the prosecutions and the prohibition order. He therefore should 
have disclosed this to SAGIC at inception. 
The information wasnt declared by either K or their insurance broker. However, I think it is 
clear from the wording in the statement of fact that this information was material to SAGICs 
decision in accepting the risk. 
While I appreciate K states the policy was agreed with the broker and underwriter due to 
their working relationship and limited information was requested, both the broker and SAGIC 
have said that the information about the prosecutions and prohibition order were not 
disclosed to them by K. The broker said they were not made aware of this information during 
the policy term. They said Mr A provided them with a statement of fact from the previous 
insurer and confirmed that there was no change to the questions which were answered no 
and this information was passed on to SAGIC at inception of Bs policy in 2017. K confirmed 
the information remained the same when Ks policy was incepted in 2018 too. I am satisfied 
that it was Ks responsibility (either directly or through their broker) to ensure that it provided 
a fair presentation of the risk to SAGIC. As it didnt do that in this instance, I am satisfied that 
it didnt make a fair presentation of the risk.
SAGIC has provided statements from its underwriters, which include underwriting guidance. 
These confirm that, had they been told about the prosecutions and prohibition order, they 
wouldnt have offered terms. Based on this evidence, I am satisfied that, had the appropriate 
disclosures been made, SAGIC wouldnt have offered terms to K. Therefore, I think K made 
a qualifying breach when buying its policy. 
The remedies available to SAGIC depend on whether a qualifying breach is either deliberate 
or reckless, or, neither deliberate nor reckless. SAGIC has treated Ks breach as deliberate 
or reckless. Based on all the circumstances, I think SAGIC acted fairly in deciding this. K 
ought to have known about the prosecutions and prohibition order and should have 
disclosed it to SAGIC. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think SAGIC acted unfairly in avoiding Ks policy from 
inception, retaining all the premium paid and declining the claim in question for not making a 
fair presentation of the risk. 
K also complained that SAGIC was relying on a breach of a special condition L40. However, 
I dont need to make a finding on this because Ive already decided that SAGIC acted fairly 
and reasonably in avoiding Ks policy and declining the claim.   
My final decision
My Final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 Ankita Patel
Ombudsman