DRN-2867231
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
his request for assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
with VWFS. The agreement was for £14,609 over 48 months; with monthly repayments of 
£210.13. There was also a final optional payment of £6,592.50 if Mr R wanted to keep the 
car at the end of the agreement.
Mr R said he contacted the supplying dealership on 1 April 2020 to let them know that, 
because of Covid-19, he would have difficulties making his monthly payments. He said the 
dealership didnt offer him any support and he was unable to get through to VWFS by phone.
On 5 May 2020, Mr R asked VWFS for a payment deferral (also known as a payment 
holiday). He said that VWFS didnt deal with this request and, because he was unable to 
make the monthly payments, VWFS recorded missed payments on his credit file. So Mr R 
complained to us, asking for the missed payments to be removed and for compensation.
In September 2020, VWFS upheld Mr Rs complaint. They apologised for the difficulties that 
Mr R had when he tried to contact them, which was caused by an increase in customer 
contact and resulted in delays responding to enquiries. VWFS said that Mr Rs request for a 
payment deferral in May 2020 hadnt been dealt with at the time, but this had now been 
done. And his credit file had been amended to show this.
VWFS also said that the service Mr R had experienced wasnt good enough, and they 
agreed to waive the £155 shortfall in the payment Mr R made in April 2020. They also 
agreed to remove the adverse information relating to this payment from his credit file.
Mr R still wasnt happy, as he was unsure that the £155 had been waived. He said he was 
making payments of £5 a week towards the outstanding balance. And hed received a letter 
dated 15 February 2021 about the arrears on his account, but he couldnt get through to 
VWFS to discuss this.
Our investigator said we were only able to consider the service provided by VWFS, and not 
that of the dealership. He said that VWFS wouldve found themselves in an unprecedented 
situation because of the pandemic and wouldve needed to adapt quickly to ensure they got 
their response right. But he didnt think this had happened here.
The investigator said VWFS had made a mistake by not processing Mr Rs payment deferral 
request on time, and by recording missed payments on his credit file. But he also thought 
theyd acted reasonably by now dealing with the request and amending the credit file to 
show this. 
The investigator also said that VWFS had acted reasonably by writing off the £155 arrears 
for April 2020, and removing the adverse information relating to this from Mr Rs credit file. 
He said that, by doing this, VWFS had put Mr R in a position of having a lower outstanding 
balance than he otherwise would have, if no mistakes had been made. So he didnt think 
that VWFS needed to do anything more.
Finally, the investigator confirmed that the £155 had been correctly credited to Mr Rs 
account, and confirmed the current arrears situation to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that hes made complaints to us before and 
we always agree with the business. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Financial Conduct Authority issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 27 
April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of Covid-
19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a payment 
deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not 
in the customers interest to do so. And the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.4 
states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration.
I would also like to assure Mr R that each complaint we deal with is considered on its own 
merits, and with reference to the evidence. Any previous complaints by the customer, or 
about the financial business, have no bearing, and all complaints are considered 
independently and without bias to any party involved.
The basic facts of this complaint arent in dispute. Mr R made a request for a payment 
deferral, which wasnt dealt with by VWFS within a reasonable timescale. And this resulted 
in missed payments being recorded on Mr Rs credit file. Mr R also experienced difficulties 
contacting VWFS when he wanted to discuss his account.
VWFS have acknowledged they couldve done better, and theyve taken steps to deal with 
Mr Rs request for a payment deferral and correct his credit file. Which is what Id expect 
them to do. Theyve also written off Mr Rs arrears for April 2020, and updated his credit file 
for this, as a gesture of goodwill for the service provided. This puts Mr R in a better position 
than he wouldve been if VWFS had dealt with his request when he sent it. Im satisfied that 
this was reasonable in the circumstances, and I dont think they need to do anything more.
But Mr R is still experiencing financial difficulties, so Id expect VWFS to treat this situation 
with forbearance and due consideration.Turning to Mr Rs difficulties in contacting VWFS, this was an unprecedented situation. 
Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and VWFS wouldve 
needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same reasons, 
VWFS experienced a large increase in customer contacts. So, while I appreciate how 
frustrating this was for Mr R, I dont think that VWFS did anything wrong because they were 
receiving a very high volume of customer contact at a time when their normal operations 
were disrupted due to circumstances outside of their control.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman