DRN-3716004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about their mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Following a jurisdiction decision dated 20 December 2021, the issues we are considering are 
as follows:
the advice given in 1998 to take the mortgage over a 20-year term;
Barclays refusal to extend the mortgage term after it expired in 2018, and the service 
the bank has provided since then.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 18 August 2022. In addition, there is the ombudsmans 
jurisdiction decision dated 20 December 2021 which sets out background to the case. 
Finally, there is an ombudsmans decision dated 25 May 2022 on a related complaint Mr B 
raised with our service against Barclays concerning the pensions advice he was given. That 
complaint is about the link between the selected retirement age (SRA) for his pension and 
the term of the mortgage and the decision sets out the factual background in relation to both 
the pensions and mortgage complaints. All parties have copies of those documents so I 
dont need to repeat all the details again. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
I will also explain that our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep 
my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 18 June 1998 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Woolwich plc, which later became 
part of Barclays. For the sake of clarity, in relation to the complaint about the mortgage 
advice, I will refer to Woolwich plc, for reasons that will become apparent. 
The mortgage was sold under the Mortgage Code, a voluntary code of conduct. It came into 
effect for mortgage lenders on 1 July 1997. It was abolished on 31 October 2004 when 
mortgages became regulated. The mortgage was on an interest-only basis over a 20-year 
term, and expired in June 2018. 
The repayment vehicle was intended to be drawdowns from Mr and Mrs Bs pension funds, 
which had been arranged separately, with a business called Woolwich Independent 
Financial Services Limited (WIFAS). There is currently about £104,000 outstanding on the 
mortgage which has not yet been repaid.
In 2019 Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, raised a complaint that the 
20-year mortgage term would end when he was 62, but the pension funds had a SRA of 65. 
He says this was a problem because he and Mrs B would need to draw down from their 
pension funds to repay the mortgage, which would then prevent them from making any 
further contributions. However, Mr and Mrs Bs plans had changed and Mr B said he 
intended to work until his 70th birthday, and wanted the mortgage term extended to that date, 
so that he could continue to work and pay into his pension fund.
Barclays agreed to hold off repayment of the mortgage to 2019, to align with the end date of 
a further advance Mr and Mrs B had taken out in 2000.  Mr B told Barclays his pension funds 
would be available in November 2019. 
Barclays looked at an application to extend the mortgage term, the details of which the 
investigator set out in her letter of 18 August 2022. Barclays would only consider a new 
mortgage of up to £81,000, rather than the full amount of £104,000, over a ten-year term. 
However, Barclays required evidence of post-retirement income before it could consider this.
The 2019 hold expired three years ago, but the mortgage has not yet been repaid. 
After the ombudsman issued his jurisdiction decision, an investigator looked at the 
complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded Barclays had given 
unsuitable advice about the end date of the mortgage. 
The investigator noted that, in relation to a separate complaint about the pension advice, 
another ombudsman had made a finding that the pensions adviser had noted that 
Mr and Mrs B said they were planning to retire between 55 and 58. Given this, the 
investigator concluded that the 20-year mortgage term wasnt unsuitable. The investigator 
also didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably in declining a term extension.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings. They say that they werent asked 
when they intended to retire when they took out the mortgage but, if asked, theyd have said 
65. Mr B says that it was because of changing circumstances where he no longer has any 
choice that he has to continue working until he is 70.  
Mr B was also unhappy that Barclays wouldnt offer a term extension if the balance was 
reduced, only a new mortgage, which would involve fees and costs of re-mortgaging.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before deciding the merits of the complaint, I have to be satisfied first that I have the 
jurisdiction to do so. Mr and Mrs B say that both the mortgage and pension were arranged 
by WIFAS. If that is the case, then there are implications for this mortgage complaint.
Which business arranged the mortgage? I will begin by clarifying which business gave 
Mr and Mrs B advice, and about which product, as I think its important to explain this in the 
context of this complaint. Mr and Mrs B have said that the same adviser who arranged the 
pension also arranged the mortgage. However, the pension adviser was employed by 
WIFAS, which did not offer mortgage advice, only pensions and investments advice. My 
understanding is that in 1998 Woolwich plc would have arranged the mortgage and referred 
Mr and Mrs B to WIFAS for advice on pensions or investments. 
Although Woolwich plc and WIFAS both later became part of Barclays (which, as the parent 
company, assumed responsibility for both the mortgage and pension complaints), they were 
separate businesses, independent of each other, offering different services. The Financial Ombudsman Service didnt exist in 1998, but complaints against Woolwich plc 
about mortgage advice fell within the remit of the Office of the Banking Ombudsman (OBO). 
However, WIFAS wasnt a member of OBO; instead it was a member of the Personal 
Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIAOB), whose remit only covered complaints 
about investment advice. In the circumstances, although Mr and Mrs B say it was the same 
adviser who arranged both the mortgage and the pension, I dont think this was the case. 
The historic documents from WIFAS are available, and there is no suggestion anywhere in 
those documents that WIFAS gave Mr and Mrs B mortgage advice.
Both OBO and PIAOB became part of the Financial Ombudsman Service when it was 
established on 1 December 2001. But complaints about events that happened before that 
date are dealt with in accordance with the rules of whichever predecessor scheme applied at 
the time to the business complained of.
I am explaining this is because, if I was to accept what Mr and Mrs B have said  which is 
that it was WIFAS that had given them mortgage advice in 1998  we wouldnt now be able 
to consider a complaint about whether or not that advice was suitable. Thats because we 
can only consider a complaint about advice given by WIFAS in 1998 if that advice was about 
investments, not mortgages, under the rules of the PIAOB.
In the circumstances, given the practices in place at the time for Woolwich plc to arrange the 
mortgage, and WIFAS to arrange any investment products, Im satisfied the mortgage advice 
in this case was provided by Woolwich plc, not WIFAS. Because Woolwich plc was a 
member of OBO in 1998, which covered complaints about mortgage advice, Im satisfied I 
have jurisdiction to consider this complaint.
The 20-year mortgage term: The mortgage arranged by Woolwich plc was subject to the 
Mortgage Code. This provided three levels of service:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable;
information on different types of mortgage products the lender offers;
information on a single mortgage product only.
The historic mortgage documents from 1998 arent available, so I dont know which level of 
service was provided. However, I am prepared to accept that Mr and Mrs B were given 
advice about the mortgage, and I think thats likely, given that they were (separately) given 
pensions advice by WIFAS. 
The ombudsman who issued the final decision on the pension complaint has made a finding 
that the SRA of 65 was not set in stone and that Mr B had told WIFAS that hed planned to 
retire between 55 and 58. I dont have any power to change or second-guess the findings of 
fact made by another ombudsman. But for the sake of completeness, having read the 
ombudsmans decision on the pensions complaint, and having looked at the WIFAS 
documents from 1998, I confirm I agree with her decision.
As stated above, Woolwich plc didnt give Mr and Mrs B advice about their pensions. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that it was the responsibility of Woolwich plc to advise 
Mr and Mrs B about future potential implications for their pension funds if they made 
drawdowns to repay the mortgage before the SRA stated in the pension documentation.
Taking this into account, and given what Mr and Mrs B said to WIFAS in 1998 about 
retirement age, Im not persuaded that it was unsuitable for Woolwich plc to have arranged 
the mortgage over a 20-year term. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs B were intending at the time to retire before the mortgage reached the end of its term, and so a 20-year term fit 
within those plans.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances later changed and Mr B now says he has no 
option but to continue working until he is 70. I know that working until he is 70 is not what he 
anticipated in 1998. But the fact that the situation has changed does not lead me to conclude 
that the advice given in 1998 to take out the mortgage over a 20-year term was unsuitable.
I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Term extension: The mortgage term expired in 2018, and Barclays allowed a further year 
for it to be repaid, based on assurances from Mr B that he would have access to his pension 
funds in 2019.
The starting point here is that, at the end of the 20-year term, Barclays was entitled to ask for 
repayment of the mortgage in full. Barclays agreed to an informal extension of the term to 
2019, to coincide with the end date of the further advance taken out in 2000. I think this was 
fair in all the circumstances. 
Barclays isnt obliged to extend the term any further, but it has to treat customers fairly and 
look at what it can do to assist them in repaying the mortgage. The bank has said it will 
consider an application for a new mortgage, but this would not be for the full amount of the 
existing mortgage, and would also be subject to Mr and Mrs B meeting its lending and 
affordability criteria. I dont think this is unreasonable. The existing mortgage has come to an 
end, so a new mortgage is the only available option through Barclays for Mr and Mrs B. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly in not extending the term, and so Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint.
Further points: I think it might assist Mr and Mrs B to discuss with their financial advisers 
what other options might be available to enable them to repay the mortgage to Barclays, if 
they dont want to draw funds from their pension  for example, an equity release mortgage 
(where no monthly repayments are required), or a Retirement Interest Only mortgage (where 
monthly interest is payable). But I must make it clear that Mr and Mrs B should give this their 
urgent attention. 
As a last resort, if Mr and Mrs B dont have firm proposals to repay the mortgage in full, 
Barclays will be entitled to take legal action to recover the debt. Given that Mr and Mrs B 
have resources available to enable them to redeem the mortgage, I trust that this point will 
not be reached. But if Barclays has no other option but to pursue its legal remedies, the 
courts powers to assist defaulting borrowers are very limited where the mortgage contract 
has expired. 
I dont wish to alarm Mr and Mrs B, but I cannot underestimate the seriousness of the 
position they are in, given that it is now three years since the informal extension granted by 
Barclays for repayment by 2019 has passed. I hope Mr and Mrs B are able to make 
arrangements to repay the mortgage that are affordable and sustainable for their future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman