DRN-3894054
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund a transaction he says he
didnt make and does not recognise.
What happened
Mr M said that in August 2022, he was using his online banking to check his balance when 
his phone started acting strangely and he then saw a transaction appear for £4,500 which 
hadnt been made by him. He said he reported the disputed transaction to Santander but it 
had refused to refund the money.
Santander said that the transaction had been made via the online app on Mr Ms registered 
device using his usual IP address. It also confirmed that a passcode was used to approve 
the transaction. As Mr M had confirmed that no one else had access to his phone, Wifi or 
Passcode, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to us. One of our
investigators looked into it but didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong. As Mr M
was still unhappy, he asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so the
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time.
The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Mr M made the transaction
himself (or allowed someone to do it on his behalf) or whether it was likely done by
someone else without his knowledge  and by extension, whether its fair for Santander to 
hold him liable for the payments.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr M made the disputed transaction himself or
authorised it to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask Santander to refund them.
However, Mr M says he was not involved in the payment in dispute.
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. I
will explain why.
I understand how strongly Mr M feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points 
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy 
is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
There are occasions when people can be persuaded to make a payment, not realising that
its part of a scam. But that isnt what Mr M has told us happened. Therefore, the starting
position is that Mr M is not a victim of a scam.
Santander has said that there is only one active device registered to the account. And Mr M 
has confirmed that he was using his device at the time. Ive seen the electronic records 
which shows that Mr Ms usual device was used to set up and authorise the disputed 
transaction. A passcode has also been recorded as being put into the online app to 
authorise the transaction. I can also see from the submissions provided by Santander that 
the IP address from where the transaction was made, is one that Mr M has used multiple 
times before.
Whoever authorised the payment would have had to have been able to obtain the device,
access his banking app and know his banking passcode and Wifi password to make a 
transaction. As Mr M has said that he lives alone and that no-one else had access to the 
device or knew his passcodes or passwords, I dont see how the transaction
could have been made by someone else.
Having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more likely than
not that Mr M made the transaction himself. I realise this is not the outcome Mr M
was hoping for, but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This means
that Mr M can be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably require
Santander to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman