DRN-1122651
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage through Nationwide in 1999 and were sold regular 
premium PPI policy at the same time. The policy primarily covered Mr and Mrs Ms monthly 
mortgage repayments if Mr M couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. It also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there are gaps in the information thats still available from the sale in 1999. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago that was. Nevertheless, Ive taken into account 
the information I do have, together with the arguments raised by the parties. 
Nationwide needed to make clear to Mr and Mrs M that the policy was separate to the 
mortgage they were arranging and was optional. And I dont have any evidence to suggest 
Nationwide didnt do that. So, with the very limited information I have, I cant fairly say that 
Mr and Mrs M werent aware of the PPI or that they werent given a choice about taking it.
I dont believe Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M  from experience thats 
not how they sold these policies and theres no evidence to suggest there was a 
recommendation here. So it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have 
to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way to decide for themselves if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like better information would have put them off the policy anyway. I say that 
because, for example, Mr M (as the person insured) was eligible for the policy and wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the cover. And I cant see that Mr and 
Mrs M would have found the monthly premium unaffordable. I gather Mr M was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer. But the PPI benefits 
would have paid out on top of that and potentially for up to 24 months for each successful 
claim. The policy covered unemployment too. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M said, including that they already had 
life cover, which meant they didnt need the life cover provided as part of the PPI. However, 
Im satisfied that cover was secondary to the disability and unemployment cover provided by 
the PPI and wasnt a core element of it. I dont think better information about it would have 
put them off the policy as a whole. 
Overall, I believe Mr and Mrs M would have seen the PPI as providing affordable and useful 
additional protection for them if something went wrong, especially as it helped protect 
borrowing that was secured against their home. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of how 
Nationwide sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman