DRN-2931233
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its application to open a business bank account. 
In bringing this complaint, T is represented by its director Mr L.
  
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Put briefly, in May 2021, T applied online to open a business current account with Barclays. 
But Barclays declined the application. 
Barclays said they considered Ts application very carefully, but it didnt meet the banks 
criteria. They also said that they were unable to provide T with a more detailed explanation 
of their decision because their criteria are confidential. 
T didnt believe Barclays had treated it fairly and that their reluctance to sufficiently explain 
the reason for their decision compounded the unfairness. So, T brought its complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. She said that in the 
same way customers can chose with whom they wish to bank, similarly banks are entitled to 
apply their own criteria when deciding who to accept as customers - provided, they comply 
with their obligation to treat all applications fairly.
In Ts case after reviewing Barclayss submission the investigator was satisfied that the bank 
was able to show T didnt meet the banks criteria. So, she was of the view that Ts 
application was fairly assessed, and Barclays were entitled therefore, to decline to open a 
business current account on Ts behalf. 
T didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and has asked for an ombudsmans review 
of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.   
As the investigator noted, just as a customer can choose their bank, so a bank is entitled to 
choose its customers, although I would expect it to make that decision fairly. So, I have 
considered Ts complaint with this in mind. 
I know that at the heart of Ts unhappiness is that Barclays didnt give any reasons for 
declining the application other than that T didnt meet their criteria. And I do appreciate Ts 
wish for greater clarity in that regard, including whether there was any misunderstanding by 
the bank in the way Mr Ls name appeared in the application. 
But a bank isnt required to give to a customer or potential customer the reasons for a 
decision not to provide banking services. And, there is also no obligation if it didnt wish to do 
so, to elaborate further beyond advising that the customer didnt meet the eligibility criteria.
That said, Ive looked at the information provided to me by Barclays. They show Barclays 
assessed Ts application based on their criteria and that hadnt anything to do with the way 
Mr Ls name appeared in the application. 
Unfortunately, I cant share with T the information Barclays have given us - including the 
reasons for declining its application - as this is commercially sensitive. But Im satisfied the 
application was fairly assessed, and it is just that on this instance T did not meet the banks 
criteria. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for T, but I think Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. Therefore, I wont ask Barclays to do anything further.  
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman