DRN-1552338
The complaint
 Mrs K is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc treated her after she became 
overdrawn.
 
What happened
 Mrs K held a number of current and a savings account with NatWest. In early June 2019, 
after an intense period of gambling which left Mrs K overdrawn by over £9,000, NatWest 
decided to amalgamate all her debts into one of her current accounts, defaulted it and closed 
all her other accounts.
Mrs K was unhappy with the banks decision, particularly with the short amount of time it had 
given her to bring her accounts in order and the lack of support offered at a time when she 
was financially and emotionally vulnerable. She asked us to look into the matter when the 
bank didnt satisfactorily resolve her resulting complaint.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional thoughts about the complaint and said, in 
summary, that:
One of the Financial Conduct Authoritys strategic objectives is to protect customers. The 
Principles for Business require businesses to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly. And its published a number of occasional and 
consultation papers about vulnerable customers and the need to treat them fairly dating 
back to, at least, 2015. The British Bankers Association also published a report about 
improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances in February 2016.
There is currently no industry-agreed definition for problematic or harmful gambling. But I 
cited various publications and concluded it wasnt in dispute that harm could arise, or be 
suffered, as a result of compulsive gambling. 
I thought it was clear from the activity showing on Mrs Ks account statements that she 
had a history of online gambling stretching back to at least 2015. In 2017 she told the 
bank her gambling was a hobby and under control. And I was pleased to see the bank 
discussed her gambling at that point as well as agreeing an affordable repayment plan 
and waiving some charges and interest. But I thought it arguable her pattern of gambling 
then and subsequently, as well as her loan applications (all of which the bank declined, 
seemingly on affordability grounds) suggested she might have an addiction and/or a 
compulsion to gamble which she was not entirely in control of, rather than it being a 
controlled hobby or pure entertainment. I thought the bank could have offered Mrs K 
additional support either then or subsequently given the ongoing gambling activity on her 
account and what the bank knew from its overall relationship with her.
I didnt think NatWest had entirely understood or got to grips with Mrs Ks financial 
situation, her resulting complaint or the evidence it had provided to support its view, 
particularly relating to her debit card payments having been completed offline and 
without the banks authorisation. 
Mrs K had become overdrawn because she made debit card payments to an online 
gambling company which were authorised at a time when she had sufficient money in 
her account. But, as often happens, there was a delay of a couple of days before the 
payments actually left her account. In the meantime, she moved her credit balance into 
another account and spent it a second time. Mrs K said she didnt realise she would end 
up overdrawn because the information she got from her online banking said there was 
enough money available in her account to cover the debit card payments shed decided 
to make. But that was true at the time she made the payments. And it was her 
subsequent transfer out of the account that resulted in her becoming overdrawn when 
the debit card payments were deducted from her account. I had some difficulty 
understanding why the bank allowed Mrs K to have so many current accounts and why it 
permitted the credit balance to be moved when it could have been earmarked or ring-
fenced to cover the payments that had already been authorised. But I also thought Mrs K 
knew what she was doing when she, in effect, moved money around and spent it twice 
given that shed done something similar in 2017 and discussed the repercussions with 
the bank at that time. On the other hand, I thought it likely Mrs K was in the grip of a 
compulsive gambling episode at the time and may have been willing to do whatever it 
took to keep gambling. But I also thought it arguable her control over her actions may 
have been compromised and this, ultimately, resulted in her making decisions that were 
financially unwise and detrimental in the longer term. I took all of these considerations 
into account when deciding what more the bank couldve done to help.
Some of the activity on Mrs Ks accounts during this intense period of gambling triggered 
the banks fraud detection system. All the related flags were lifted when Mrs K confirmed 
the transactions were genuine. Mrs K had been gambling quite a lot in the weeks leading 
up to June 2020 when the account ended up overdrawn. Yet at no point, when the bank 
was questioning her about potential fraud, did it check her account and question or offer 
support related to the gambling. I thought the bank missed several opportunities, 
prompted by its own fraud detection systems, to reach out to Mrs K. But I couldnt know 
what wouldve happened if the bank had been more proactive and I thought it possible 
Mrs K wouldve simply offered further reassurances that her gambling was under control. 
I was also mindful that banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account and consumers are ultimately 
entitled to spend their money as they see fit. 
Instead of offering help to Mrs K at a potentially very vulnerable time  when she was 
significantly overdrawn and, possibly, at her lowest ebb  the bank decided to close her 
accounts at short notice offering little, or no, support. The banks notes indicated Mrs Ks 
accounts were blocked due to card misuse despite having previously accepted  when 
her accounts were in credit  Mrs Ks assurances that the fraud flags were unnecessarily 
raised. And the decision was taken the following day to amalgamate all of her accounts 
into one, default it and close the rest. I thought it seemed like the bank was happy for 
Mrs K to use her numerous accounts in whatever way she chose, including gambling 
excessively, provided she used her own money and didnt go overdrawn. It stepped in 
only when the risk to itself became unacceptable and didnt try to help or protect Mrs K 
from the risks she posed to her own financial stability. Also the authorised overdraft 
facility held on one of her accounts was removed which wouldve meant higher, 
unarranged overdraft charges would be incurred. This decision and the way the matter 
was handled overall caused me concern.
NatWest gave Mrs K seven days notice before closing her account and the letter it sent 
referred her to a particular section in the account terms and conditions. But the terms 
and conditions didnt include a seven-day notice provision  they mention only immediate closure or 60-days notice to close. I thought the bank had acted outside the permitted 
terms and conditions and unfairly in the particular circumstances of the case, giving 
Mrs K insufficient time to make alternative banking arrangements and possibly causing 
additional confusion and stress at a time when Mrs K was already struggling. I was also 
concerned the letters NatWest sent about closing and defaulting the accounts made no 
mention of any assistance it or debt advice agencies might be able to provide if Mrs K 
wasnt able to repay her £9,000 debt within the short timeframe given. A subsequent 
phone call between Mrs K and the bank seems to have been very brief and little 
assistance was provided. The bank has obligations to treat customers in financial 
difficulty positively and sympathetically and I had seen little to indicate NatWest took that 
responsibility into account in its dealings with Mrs K.
When Mrs K complained to the bank, she noted she had been caught in a gambling 
cycle, had stopped gambling because it almost pushed her to suicide and had nobody to 
support her financially. The bank agreed its staff had been unhelpful and dismissive 
when she was trying to get help and provided a phone number for its recoveries team. In 
the circumstances, I thought NatWest should have done more to support Mrs K and 
make up for its previous failings and poor service. But that opportunity was also missed. 
And I could understand why Mrs K had stopped engaging with the bank given the way it 
had treated her  she referred her complaint to our service rather than trying to come to 
a repayment agreement with NatWest.
The debt was sold to a third party and a default, dated 31 October 2019, was reported to 
the credit reference agencies. Mrs K wanted the default to be removed but I couldnt 
fairly tell the bank to do so. Mrs K latterly said her family could help repay the debt but 
that hadnt happened and shed previously told us shed exhausted all of her own money 
and had no other financial support. In my experience, its not unusual (or unreasonable) 
for lenders to default and sell on debts within 6 to 12 months when consumers arent 
able to afford more than a relatively low monthly repayment amount. I was also 
conscious that the relationship between Mrs K and the bank had broken down to the 
extent that she might well find it easier and a preferable experience to correspond with 
the third party about the ongoing debt repayment. But I thought the default should be 
backdated to 22 July 2019 as the default notice of 24 June 2019 said the account would 
be defaulted 28 days later if the debt wasnt repaid in full. 
Overall, I thought NatWest shouldve done more to support Mrs K. But, while Mrs K was 
in a vulnerable situation, she also had a role to play and she did spend the money that 
led to the debt. And overall, taking into account everything that happened in this case, I 
didnt think it was fair to tell NatWest to make a contribution to the repayment of the debt 
held by the third party. However, I thought the bank should pay £1,000 compensation to 
Mrs K to recognise all of the missed opportunities and the unfair treatment including the 
premature removal of her authorised overdraft.
In response to my provisional findings, NatWest accepted it hadnt always delivered the 
expected standard of service. But the bank noted that, prior to June 2019, Mrs K had always 
operated her accounts in line with her agreed borrowing and hadnt sought help for a 
gambling problem. So NatWest didnt agree it should have intervened earlier in this 
particular case but it did offer to settle the complaint in the way I proposed.
Mrs K didnt accept my provisional findings and said, in summary, that:
Shes disappointed with my decision and still doesnt feel shes got the help she needs. 
She has felt suicidal in the past due to her gambling and the situation she now finds 
herself in. Her family are able to help her repay the debt in full but will only do so if the default is removed from her credit file. The default exists because of NatWests failings 
and she shouldnt have to suffer and be disadvantaged over the next six years until it 
automatically falls off her credit file.
She didnt realise the debit card payments shed made to the gambling company hadnt 
left her account straightaway. She thought the payments had been made and the credit 
balance consisted of money the gambling company had given back after she contacted 
them, severely upset about the money shed already spent. On two occasions in the past 
she has managed to get refunds from gambling companies.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, neither party has put forward any evidence or arguments that makes me 
think I should reach a different decision to the one previously set out and summarised 
above.
I have considered carefully what Mrs K has said about her understanding of how much 
money she had available to spend. But I have difficulty accepting her explanation. I say that 
because she hasnt provided any evidence to show a gambling company had agreed to 
refund money to her. I dont think its unusual for there to be a delay between debit card 
payments being authorised and actually debiting a NatWest customers account. And I think 
Mrs K could (and, arguably, should) have checked her account activity to see if those 
payments had left her account and/or if money had been refunded from the gambling 
company before she moved the credit balance. Mrs K had a number of accounts and moved 
money between all of them, sometimes very rapidly, so I can understand it may have been 
somewhat difficult for her to check her overall financial position. But she often used her debit 
cards and used her online/mobile banking facility to move money around between her 
accounts and that is something she was, ultimately, responsible for managing and Im 
satisfied her previous actions indicate a reasonable understanding of the process. 
Overall, I still dont think the bank should refund any of the payments Mrs K made to the 
online gambling companies or instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the default 
from her credit file. But it needs to take some other actions to put things right.
Putting things right
 In order to put things right National Westminster Bank Plc should:
Make arrangements to ensure Mrs Ks credit file is updated to show her account default 
date as 22 July 2019. It may need to liaise with the third party that now owns the debt to 
ensure this is reported correctly. If so, it should do so within 28 days of the date my 
decision is accepted by Mrs K.
Pay £1,000 compensation to Mrs K.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman