DRN-3210842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that The Caravan Club Ltd (the Caravan Club) mishandled a claim 
on their caravan policy.
Where I refer to the Caravan Club, I refer to that limited company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs T bought a new caravan. It was fitted with a motor mover.
For the year from May 2018, Mr and Mrs T had the caravan covered on a Caravan Club 
policy.
Unfortunately, in April 2019, the caravan and the motor mover were damaged in a collision. 
Mr T contacted the Caravan Club and took the caravan to a repairer.
In May 2019, the repairer did a repair estimate totalling £2,612.40. It included £995.00 plus 
VAT (a total of £1,194.00) for a new motor mover. The Caravan Club asked Mr T to pay 
£597.00 (which is 50% of £1,194.00) towards the repairers charges. Mr T reluctantly paid 
that in order to get the caravan back. 
From November 2019 to February 2020, Mr T complained to the Caravan Club. By a final 
response dated 11 February 2020, the Caravan Club turned down the complaint. On 6 
August 2020, Mr T brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
terms of the policy enabled the Caravan Club to act as they had. He said that the policy
wording clearly allowed for depreciation. He said that the motor mover was 12 years old 
(with a typical lifespan of 15 years) so a 50% contribution seemed reasonable.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
A contract should set out all the terms and conditions.
The Caravan Club 2018 policy document has a lack of detail and clarity regarding 
Market Value. There is no wording or calculations to determine the age or 
depreciation or value of equipment.
There is no wording, calculations, graphs or scales to determine longevity of 
equipment.
There is no indication or method to indicate that a policy holder or prospective policy 
holder would have to contribute £579.00 (23%) towards the total cost of a claim of 
this type.
As Mr and Mrs T were joint policyholders, we recently asked Mrs T to sign Mr Ts complaint 
form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the law, policy terms, regulation and good practice. Above all, I have 
to decide whats fair and reasonable.
A policy document should contain all the material terms. But I wouldnt necessarily expect a 
policy document to go into detail about how value or deprecation should be calculated.
The policy contained definitions as follows: 
Caravan/ Your Caravan Caravan described in the 
Caravan Cover Schedule, 
complete with fixtures and fittings 
as supplied by the manufacturer 
and owned by You
Equipment Non-standard fixtures, fittings 
and accessories added to Your 
Caravan since manufacture 
including awnings, batteries, gas 
bottles, generators, 
motormovers, refrigerators, 
security devices, stabilisers and 
the like 
Market Value The cost of replacing Your 
Caravan, Equipment or Contents 
with items of similar type and 
age, less a deduction for wear, 
tear and/or depreciation. For the 
Caravan the Market Value will be 
based on the latest information 
supplied by Glasss Guide 
Information Services. 
Replacement Value The cost of replacing Your 
Caravan, Equipment and 
Contents with new items of 
similar type.
I consider that the definitions of Caravan and Equipment were mutually exclusive. They 
were distinguished by whether or not they were supplied by the manufacturer of the caravan.
The definition of Market Value meant a second-hand or depreciated value.
Ive seen the 2007 purchase order for the caravan. It lists extras including a mover priced 
at £895.00. So I find that it was the dealer rather than the caravan manufacturer that 
supplied the motor mover. Im satisfied that  under the policy definitions - the motor mover 
was Equipment rather than part of the Caravan.The policy terms included the following:
3. If the Caravan and/or Equipment is lost, stolen or destroyed within 15 years of the date 
that they were first sold as new We may pay to replace the Caravan and/or Equipment with 
new items of the same or similar manufacture and model or pay the cash equivalent at Our 
option. Settlement will take into account any available discount 
Limitations 
Whilst the Caravan and/or Equipment is within 5 years of the date that they were first sold 
as new they should be covered for the full Replacement Value at the commencement date 
of the Period of Cover and at all subsequent renewal dates. Any increase in the 
replacement costs during the Period of Cover will be automatically covered. If the level of 
cover chosen by You is not sufficient at commencement date, or at a subsequent renewal 
date, any claim settlement will be restricted to the Cover Limit shown on the Caravan 
Cover Schedule. 
Where the Caravan and/or Equipment is more than 5 years old at the time of the loss any 
claims settlement will be based on Market Value only.
Mr and Mrs Ts motor mover was less than 15 years old. But the limitation said that  - as the 
motor mover was over 5 years old  any settlement would be based on Market Value only. 
And that meant the cost of a motor mover of the same age, about 12 years.
The policy terms had exclusions including the following:
Exclusions
6. Where a claim for damage results in the Caravan needing new parts or accessories which 
are found to be obsolete or unobtainable, the most We may pay will be the last known list 
price of the part or accessory required, together with the appropriate fitting charge.
Thats a common term in caravan insurance. For several reasons I dont consider that the 
exclusion helps Mr T. One reason is because the exclusion applies to parts or accessories 
for the repair of the Caravan whereas the motor mover was Equipment. Another reason is 
that the exclusion sets out a maximum rather than an entitlement. 
The policy terms also included the following:
Claims Settlement 
If We agree a claim, We will at Our option either; 
(a) pay the cost of repairing or replacing damaged parts of the Caravan and/or Equipment 
(b) replace the Caravan and/or Equipment if lost, stolen or damaged beyond economic 
repair 
(c) pay an amount equivalent to the value of any loss of or damage to the Caravan and/or 
Equipment. 
The most We may pay for any claim is shown on Your Caravan Cover Schedule and the 
Cover Summary table on Page 3
So the Caravan Club had the option to pay the value of any loss of or damage to the motor 
mover. And I consider that the amount of such loss or damage was by reference to the value 
of a 12-year old motor mover.Mr T has said that his old motor mover was lightly used. But the Caravan Club has estimated 
the expected life of a motor mover at 10 to 15 years. And Mr T hasnt provided any evidence 
to contradict that. So I find it more likely than not that the old motor mover had lost at least 
£597.00 of its value.
Keeping in mind the policy terms, I dont find that the Caravan Club treated Mr and Mrs T 
unfairly by asking him to pay half the cost of the new motor mover. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct the Caravan Club to reimburse Mr and Mrs T or to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct The Caravan Club Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman