DRN-3948196
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Wakam didnt do more to help him after he was involved in a motor 
incident. Mr S wanted them to contact the third-party insurers (TPI) to make sure the other 
party would accept liability, before he made a claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After Mr S was involved in a motoring incident, he contacted Wakam to see if they 
would contact the TPI to ensure they would accept liability. Mr S wanted this contact 
to be done prior to any possible claim and felt that Wakam should do it under the 
policy he pays for with them. 
Mr S has confirmed he didnt and doesnt want to raise a claim and Wakam have 
shown that the incident has been recorded as information only.
I am satisfied that Wakam havent dont anything wrong in not contacting the TPI 
prior to a claim. I wouldnt expect an insurer to investigate an incident unless the 
policy holder wants to make a claim. 
The purpose of Mr Ss policy and the role of Wakam, is to indemnify Mr S against any 
loss or damage and look to recover the cost where possible from the TPI. Contact 
with the TPI from B, would be part of the claims process. 
I appreciate that Mr S would have been concerned about the impact it might have on 
his insurance record and the price of his premiums, was he to make a claim and the 
TPI dispute liability. Especially as Mr S says this was a hit and run motor incident. 
However, it isnt the role of the insurer to try and establish liability prior to a claim  
especially if a claim isnt necessarily even going to be made. 
Mr S is still required, as all insured parties are, to let Wakam know of incidents such 
as this. This is the case even if he doesnt wish to make a claim. This is not so the 
insurer is expected to investigate liability and I dont think Wakam have done 
anything wrong here. They have done all that is expected, as Mr S did not make a 
claim. 
For these reasons, although I understand what Mr S was looking to do, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision, is that I do not uphold this complaint against Wakam. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman