DRN-3397759
The complaint
Mr A and Ms K complain that One Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to One Insurance, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold One
Insurance responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle made by a
premium brand car maker in about 2015 and acquired by Mr A in about 2016.
For the year from November 2018, Mr A had the vehicle insured with One Insurance. He
was the policyholder and Ms K was a named driver. The cover was comprehensive, so it
included damage to the vehicle. Any such claim (except for windscreen damage) was
subject to an excess of £650.00.
On 4 April 2019, Ms K was driving the vehicle when unfortunately, its passenger side was
damaged in a contact with a third partys lorry on a roundabout. Mr A made a claim to One
Insurance. The lorry driver reported that the lorry was undamaged.
Months later, Mr A instructed his chosen garage to repair his vehicle. One Insurance paid
what it said it wouldve paid if it had instructed its own repairer. Mr A paid the shortfall of
£1,164.00 between that and the cost of his garages repair. He also paid the policy excess of
£650.00.
Mr A expected to be able to claim the £1,164.00 from the third party in court. But after advice
from solicitors, One Insurance decided not to pursue the third party.
Mr A complained to One Insurance that it should reimburse him the £1,164.00, saying that
he wouldnt have incurred it if hed known One Insurance wouldnt pursue the third party.
By a final response dated 2 December 2020, One Insurance apologised for poor customer
service and offered £500.00 compensation.
Mr A and Ms K brought their complaint to us on 30 May 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
offer of £500.00 compensation was fair in respect of the overall trouble and upset caused.
The investigator didnt think it was reasonable for One Insurance to cover the difference in
the repair cost solely because Mr A and Ms K were unable to contest this in court.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and Ms K and to One Insurance on 24 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
It was Mr As choice to spend that extra amount on genuine parts which the policy 
didnt cover. He has had the benefit of that as well as the cost. And he made that 
decision at a time when he mustve known that there could be no certainty of a 
successful recovery against the third party of £1,164.00 or any amount.
One Insurances shortcomings caused Mr A extra upset and put him to extra trouble 
at an already difficult time. But I considered that £500.00 was at least as much as I 
wouldve directed if One Insurance hadnt made that offer.
Compared to the final response, this was not a change in outcome. But I didnt think 
Mr A accepted payment of the £500.00. And I found it fair to hold One Insurance to 
its offer. 
Subject to any further information from Mr A and Ms K or from One Insurance, my 
provisional decision was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct One Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and inconvenience (insofar as One Insurance hasnt 
already paid that amount).
Mr A and Ms K disagree with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The call recordings and/or transcripts have been omitted in the process of making a 
decision. Had these been taken into account then the ombudsman could ascertain 
what One Insurance actually did or did not do. One Insurance have already 
conceded that their service was substandard and its false assurances about further 
legal action were a manifestation of this.
Their motivation for using their own garage was because One Insurance had made a 
promise to pursue the third party. Listening to the calls would corroborate this.
They have not been dishonest or attempted to deliberately mislead. 
One Insurance disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Mr A didnt accept the compensation offered and didnt provide BACS details for the 
payment. So it cannot understand why the complaint would be partly upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the telephone call recording that Ms K sent us in late January 2022. No other 
call recordings have been available to me.
Its common practice for an insurance company to settle its policyholders claim and to treat
that as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full,
typically from a third party. If an insurer agrees that liability is split between its policyholder
and a third party (e.g. 50/50) then the insurer will only recover part (e.g. 50%) of its outlay.
Like most motor insurance policies, One Insurances contained a term giving the insurer
control of claims involving a third party. One Insurance had a policy term as follows:
We will be entitled to: Have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim.
 Take proceedings, in your name or in the name of any other person claiming
under this insurance, at our own expense and for our own benefit to recover any
payment we have made.
The effect of that term was that  on a question of liability between Mr A or Ms K and a third
party  One Insurances view would prevail over Mr As.
In my view, One Insurance couldnt change the policy term by anything that its claims-
handlers said to Mr A and Ms K.
But I will consider whether One Insurance applied that term fairly and reasonably. Unlike a
court, we dont hear evidence from all the drivers and decide the extent to which each of
them is liable for causing injury or damage.
One Insurances policy terms also included the following:
We will not pay the difference in repairs when it is not being done through our
approved garage, however we can try to negotiate costs in order to assist.
Any repairs must be authorised by us prior to being carried out.
We may use parts or accessories which are not made or supplied by your cars
manufacturer but are of similar type and quality to the parts and accessories we are
replacing.
So the policy didnt entitle Mr A to a repair using parts made by the car maker. If Mr A used
his own repairer, One Insurance would pay no more than what it wouldve paid its repairer.
I accept Mr A and Ms Ks recollection that One Insurance couldnt guarantee that its repairer 
would use genuine parts, that is parts made by the car maker. I find that correct in line with 
the policy terms.
Ive seen a letter from One Insurance in August 2019 including the following:
if you send us an estimate for the garage you wish to use for your repairs we will
convert their rates to the rates we can get from our approved repairers. The repair
can then be authorised and completed. You would need to pay the excess payment
on the policy and the difference between your garages estimate and our rates.
We would then look to recover the full invoice for the repairs from the third party
insurer.
I consider that this was correct in line with the policy terms.
But I find that One Insurance later gave incorrect information. Notably in November 2019,
One Insurance said that the extra cost to repair the vehicle at Mr As chosen garage was
£1,164.00  including the excess of £650.00.
It would be unusual for a motor insurer to promise its policyholder that it would take court
proceedings against a third party for an uninsured loss  let alone to promise that it would
pursue the proceedings to a trial. 
The call recording contains no such promises. Rather, One Insurance said that  once it had 
made an outlay  it would pass the claim to its solicitors. In any event, I consider that Mr A 
and Ms K mustve known that there could never be any guarantee of success at a trial.
Im satisfied that One Insurance took into account Ms Ks report of the accident. As I wouldexpect, One Insurance advocated that to the third party.
Im satisfied that One Insurance did a fair and reasonable investigation. It took account of the
nature and location of damage to each vehicle. It noted that there were no independent
witnesses or CCTV.
After advice from the solicitors, One Insurance decided not to incur the risk and cost of a
court case. In the context of a collision on a roundabout, I cant say that its decision was
unfair or unreasonable  whatever One Insurance may have said previously.
I can see why Mr A feels he has suffered a financial loss of £1,164.00. But I consider that it 
was his choice to spend that extra amount on genuine parts which the policy didnt cover. He 
has had the benefit of that as well as the cost. 
And he made that decision at a time when he mustve known that there could be no certainty 
of a successful recovery against the third party of £1,164.00 or any amount. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct One Insurance to pay £1,164.00 or any amount of 
compensation for financial loss.
Ive noted some shortcomings in the communication and service One Insurance provided to
Mr A. Its final response apologised and offered £500.00 compensation.
I accept that its shortcomings caused Mr A extra upset and put him to extra trouble at an
already difficult time. But I consider that £500.00 is at least as much as I wouldve directed if
One Insurance hadnt made that offer. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One
Insurance to pay any more.
Compared to the final response, this is not a change in outcome. But Mr A didnt accept 
payment of the £500.00. And I find it fair to hold One Insurance to its offer. So I uphold this 
complaint in part, and I will direct One Insurance to pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience (insofar as One Insurance hasnt already paid that amount). 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct One Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and inconvenience (insofar as 
One Insurance hasnt already paid that amount).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman