DRN-4131235
The complaint
Mr R complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd issued a refund from his account to a buyer 
after theyd raised a dispute.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr R sold an item via eBay. One of the functions of the item was to mine 
cryptocurrency. However, Mr R says this functionality stopped in around April 2022 after the 
manufacturer of the item and another company ended their business relationship. 
In April 2022, the buyer contacted Mr R and asked him for a refund on the basis that the item 
was not as described in his listing. Mr R says he refused to refund the buyer because the 
item was as described when he sold it. 
The buyer raised a dispute with the financial institution theyd used to pay for the item. This 
was upheld in the buyers favour.  eBay refunded the buyers payment and tried to take 
money from Mr Rs bank account to cover the refund. However, eBays payment request 
failed. eBay suspended Mr Rs eBay account because the refund resulted in a negative 
balance of around £500.
Mr R complained about eBays decision to refund the buyer. eBay said it had acted within 
the terms of use Mr R had agreed to when joining eBays managed payments service. It said 
the investigation of the payment dispute was done by the buyers financial institution, rather 
than eBay. It also said the dispute didnt qualify for eBays seller protection. It had credited 
the dispute fee as a courtesy, but it could not cover the entire refund amount sent to the 
buyer.
Mr R remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator didnt 
think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought eBay had acted fairly, in line with its 
terms of use.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the item was exactly as described. 
He said the buyer had kept the item for over three months and had been able to use it. The 
issue didnt arise with the item itself but with a third party. He believed the buyer was 
attempting to defraud him and eBays decision to refund them was due to lack of 
understanding of the product. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The rules that apply to this service say that we can only consider complaints about 
businesses that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out certain 
activities, which include regulated activities and payment services. These rules are 
contained in the FCA Handbook (available online) and are known as DISP. The relevant 
section here is DISP 2.3.1R.
eBay as an online marketplace and auction site isnt a regulated financial business, so we 
cant consider complaints about it. But we can consider complaints about certain other eBay 
companies where they are regulated. Here that means we can consider part of Mr Rs 
complaint against eBay Commerce UK Ltd, where it relates to an activity that it is regulated 
for  this activity being a specific type of payment service.
Mr Rs complaint is about a dispute the buyer of the item raised via their payment institution. 
This is something I can look at as an extension of eBays managed payment service. So, I 
can consider the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd, so far as Mr Rs complaint arises out of 
his relationship with it. 
Here eBay Commerce UK Ltd is providing a payment service to Mr R. It refers to this service 
as Managed Payments and the relevant terms relating to this are contained in eBays 
Payments Terms of Use. These explain that the final outcome of a dispute will be decided 
by the buyers financial institution. They go on to say how eBay will manage the dispute: it 
will notify a managed payments user (here Mr R) of a dispute and then gather any 
information a customer wishes to provide, before submitting that to the relevant payment 
institution. 
I can see that eBay made Mr R aware of his buyers dispute on 10 April 2022 and gave him 
five days to respond. Mr R uploaded an image of the items box the same day, and eBay 
sent his dispute rebuttal to the buyers payment institution on 12 April. Mr R says the buyer 
returned the item to him. 
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy that the dispute was decided in the buyers favour. Hes made 
several comments about why he thinks this is unfair. But this decision was made by the 
financial institution who took the payment. So, I cant hold eBay responsible for the dispute 
being upheld.
eBay says that as the buyers financial institution found in the buyers favour it had to refund 
their payment to them. eBays terms say: if the buyers financial institution decides in favor 
of the buyer, the respective amount will be refunded to the buyers original payment method 
and charged to us. You must reimburse us for such charges, unless you are eligible for 
seller protection in which case you are not held liable for amounts refunded to the buyer.
eBays terms set out what it will look for when determining whether to protect a seller in the 
circumstance of a payment dispute because the item doesnt match the listing. eBays 
terms also list eligible scenarios for a transaction to qualify for seller protection. Having 
reviewed this information, I think it was fair of eBay to have concluded that Mr Rs 
transaction didnt meet its eligibility criteria for seller protection. I say this because Mr R 
doesnt appear to have refunded any of the buyers payment to them in a way which would 
qualify him for this. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that an eBay Money Back 
Guarantee case for the transaction had already been decided against the buyer, which is 
one of the other criteria that might make a transaction eligible for protection.
As Mr R doesnt appear to have reimbursed eBay for the refund, I dont think it was unfair for 
eBay to have suspended his account. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr R, but Im satisfied eBay has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with its terms of use. So, I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman