DRN-1785991
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in March 1999,  at the 
same as they took out a loan.
Background
Mr and Mrs B say they thought they had to buy the PPI to get the loan they wanted and it 
wasnt explained to them. Only Mrs B was covered. 
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs B have already been refunded some of the PPI commission and 
interest by Nationwide. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs B disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and I have taken 
this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B cant remember how they bought the policy. But Nationwide has confirmed 
they applied for it by way of posting in a completed application form. That suggests to me 
that Nationwide most likely didnt make a recommendation that Mr and Mrs B take out the 
policy. However, whilst it didnt have to make sure that the PPI was suitable for their 
situation, Nationwide still had to ensure it gave them sufficient, clear information that wasnt 
misleading.
Nationwide also needed to make it clear the PPI was optional. Ive seen a copy of 
Mr and Mrs Bs application form and on it I can see that there is a separate section that 
deals with PPI. Within the section it gives to option to select yes or no to take PPI with a 
space to sign to confirm the selection. I can see on Mr and Mrs Bs application form that PPI 
has been selected with a tick in the yes box and Mrs B has signed just below this. 
Ive also seen a copy of the credit agreement Mr and Mrs B signed to get the loan. I can see 
it sets out the cost of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance with and without interest, 
separately. So I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the PPI 
because they were given the choice as to whether to take it on the loan application form  
plus was described as optional on the credit agreement.
So I also think Mr and Mrs B ought to have known when they decided to buy the cover that 
they had a choice.From what Ive seen, I think Mrs B was eligible for the cover. Also, I havent seen anything 
that makes me think she would be disadvantaged by any of the main exclusions. 
Mrs B was entitled to receive benefits from her employer of 6 months at full pay followed by 
6 months at half pay if she wasnt able to work. Mr B told us that he was entitled to the same 
level of benefits from his employer. But if Mrs B made a successful claim for accident or 
sickness or lost her job the policy would pay out for up to 12 months. It would also pay out in 
addition to any benefits Mrs B might receive from her employer, as well as any other sources 
of income that Mr and Mrs B might have had access to.
I cant be sure Nationwide did everything it shouldve done when it sold these policies to 
Mr and Mrs B. And I appreciate theyve said they wouldnt have wanted to pay any extra 
money for PPI. But they chose to take out PPI for Mrs B so it looks like they wanted to have 
the protection PPI offered. They couldve benefitted from the cover if Mrs B had needed to 
make a claim and the cost of the PPI seems to have been affordable for them. I therefore 
dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
It follows that overall I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of anything 
Nationwide mightve done wrong.
Ive also seen that the policy gave a refund that was proportionate to the time the customer 
had held it, if it was cancelled early. So, when Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy early, in 
February 2002, this is what happened. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. Im 
sorry to disappoint them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs  Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman