DRN-3032129
The complaint
 Ms D has complained about repairs to her car arranged by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc trading as More Than (RSA) under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D took out insurance for her car with RSA in May 2020. Her car was unfortunately stolen 
in September 2020 and it was recovered shortly afterwards with some damage. Ms D made 
a claim on her insurance policy.
Having initially been taken to a dealership garage, the car was repaired and re-sprayed by a 
different, RSA approved repairer. Ms D was unhappy with the repairs. In particular, she felt 
that wiring should have been replaced and not repaired. She didnt feel that the car needed 
to be resprayed and that the resulting paint colour was different to the original colour. Ms D 
raised a number of other consequential concerns, including her experience as a customer.
As Ms D didnt feel that her concerns had been resolved by RSA, she complained to this 
service. Our investigator took the view that RSA had not acted fairly and reasonably in all 
respects in relation to the repairs to Ms Ds car. She said that when Ms D took the car to the 
dealership garage, they confirmed that the colour was not the correct original colour and 
provided written confirmation of this. The investigator recommended that RSA covered the 
cost of respraying the car. She also recommended that it paid compensation of £275 to Miss 
D for the distress and inconvenience caused by RSAs handling of the matter.
Ms D remains unhappy about the amount of recommended compensation. RSA also 
disagrees with the investigators view as it considers that it has not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in carrying out the repair and respraying work, or in relation to the quality of 
that work. The matter has therefore been forwarded to me to make a final decision in my role 
as Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where damage is caused following theft of a car and repairs are required, its for the insurer 
to decide whether the car is repairable. If its repairable, our approach is that wed expect the 
insurer to place the vehicle back to its pre-accident condition. Im satisfied that RSA treated 
the car as being repairable. Ms Ds car hasnt been put back to its pre-accident condition 
however and I dont think that Ms D has been treated fairly and reasonably by RSA in all 
respects. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions are the starting point for me to consider. These state that; -
Car repairs 
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Where your policy provides 
cover for damage to your car we have a network of recommended repairers. The repair 
process will commence immediately your car arrives on their premises. To ensure there is 
no effect on any existing warranty you may have, they provide a lifetime guarantee on all 
repairs.
How we will settle your claim If the loss or damage is covered under your policy, we will 
settle your claim as explained below. 
If your car is lost or damaged we: 
-may choose to repair the damage or pay the amount of loss or damage;
-may decide to use recycled parts or parts or accessories that are not supplied by the 
original manufacturer.
Ms D states that she had been informed by the initial dealership garage that she required 
replacement of, and not repair to, her cars wiring unit. When Ms D saw her vehicle, she 
immediately noted that the vehicle had been resprayed and that it was a different colour.
Ms D considers that she should be awarded a substantial amount in compensation as she 
feels that she had to take out a warranty so that her vehicle could be inspected. She also 
had to continue with monthly payments for the car, even though she had only limited use of 
it. She also states that she hasnt been able to update and sell her car which continues to 
depreciate in value. Finally, she states that the cars door locking mechanism remains faulty 
following the theft and that the key codes still havent been changed.
RSA has stated in relation to the paint-work, that it wouldnt be 100% aligned as the colour 
would be affected by being out in sun and weather for three years. It said that the colour was 
matched using the latest spectrometer equipment, but it also felt that there was already a 
discrepancy in the original colours when comparing the rear bumper and panels. 
It also states that the repair garage had discussed with Ms D all the areas to be painted. It 
said that repair of the wiring took place in line with manufacturer methods of repair, with 
some new cables. It states that repair of the wiring took place, as a new replacement unit 
would take a lengthy period of time to order in.
RSA says that it arranged for a firm of independent engineers to inspect the car after 
receiving Ms Ds concerns. The engineers considered the paintwork to be of an acceptable 
commercial standard and that the colour was very good, although it was unable to inspect 
the wiring. It said that there have been no electrical faults noted. 
The engineers identified other work that required rectification, and this was completed by the 
repairer. Finally, RSA said that a claims handler tried to manage Ms Ds expectations and 
regular calls.
As to the electrical unit, Im satisfied that, under the terms and conditions of the policy, RSA 
was entitled to authorise repairs and there was no requirement to install a replacement 
wiring unit. I dont consider that RSA have acted unfairly and unreasonably in this respect. 
With regard to the paint-work, on the balance of probabilities, I find that RSA hasnt ensured 
that the car has been placed back into its pre-accident condition. I accept that Ms D had paid 
extra for the colour when she purchased her car and that it is the colour she expected it to 
be following repair. 
Im persuaded that there was a marked difference in colour following RSAs repairs. As the 
person most familiar with this vehicle, Ms Ds immediate reaction was that this wasnt the 
original colour of her car. The dealership garage has also provided written confirmation that the wrong colour had been used by the repair garage. It provided a photograph which placed 
Ms Ds vehicle next to one of the same make and expected colour. Although the photograph 
isnt particularly clear, there is nevertheless a noticeable difference which cant be explained 
by fading. I am satisfied that the written confirmation is persuasive evidence and that the 
photograph supports this evidence.
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigators conclusion that RSA should cover the 
cost of putting the error right in relation to the paintwork. I dont think that RSA has acted 
fairly and reasonably in dealing with this aspect of the claim. Im also satisfied that the fault 
to the cars door central locking mechanism is likely to have occurred as a result of the theft 
and that RSA should investigate this additional complaint and change the key codes as 
appropriate. 
I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for the indirect cost of the additional 
warranty taken out by Ms D, any monthly finance payments or, depreciation to be borne by 
RSA as these relate to benefits or use of the vehicle. I do however agree with our 
investigator that RSAs service failure and length of time that it has taken to resolve the 
issues has caused Ms D stress and inconvenience. This is additional to the stress and 
inconvenience caused by the theft itself. I therefore agree that our investigators suggested 
level of compensation is appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc and in order to put things right, I require RSA to do the following: -
- Meet the cost of respraying the vehicle back to its original colour.
- Pay compensation of £275 to Ms D for the stress and inconvenience faced as a result of 
this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman