DRN-2822481
The complaint
Mr B said PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender gave him loans that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr Lender gave Mr B six loans in total between February 2018 and April 2020 as follows:   
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
103/02/2018 26/02/2018 4 £270.00 £117.18
211/09/2018 12/10/2018 6 £200.00 £103.73
314/01/2019 25/02/2019 6 £200.00 £100.53
417/03/2019 25/09/2019 4 £200.00 £112.40
506/10/2019 24/04/2020 6 £350.00 £142.96
628/04/2020 09/09/2020 12 £300.00 £66.82
Mr B complained that Mr Lender put him into financial difficulty due to irresponsible lending 
and high interest rates. Mr B also said that he told Mr Lender that he was borrowing to pay 
other debts and asked for his account to be closed  which was agreed. But Mr Lender then 
instead issued him more loans.
When Mr Lender first looked at Mr Bs complaint, it said that it had carried out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. As a gesture of 
goodwill Mr Lender offered Mr B a £25 shopping voucher.  
Mr B was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide 
loans 1 and 2 to Mr B - but loans 3 to 6 shouldnt have been lent. 
Mr Lender said that it partly disagreed with our adjudicator and put forward an offer to refund 
loans 5 and 6.
Mr Lender sent us details showing how it had worked out what it was willing to pay Mr B and 
we forwarded this information to him. 
Mr B doesnt feel Mr Lenders offer goes far enough to resolve his complaint  and he is 
unhappy that his account with Mr Lender is still active and Mr Lender continues to send him 
invitations to apply for loans with special promotional codes. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender  should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr B hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1-2, except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
And as Mr Lender has agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loans 5  6 and 
to amend Mr Bs credit file, I havent considered these loans further save for including them 
in the redress and when thinking about Mr Bs overall borrowing pattern. 
This just leaves in dispute loans 3 and 4.After taking out loan 2, Mr B had specifically asked Mr Lender not to lend further to him  
and it appears that Mr Lender did then reject Mr Bs next loan application. But when he 
applied again, some 3 months after paying loan 2, he was provided with loan 3.
I've taken into account that Mr B said his circumstances had by then changed and he 
needed to buy a computer. And Mr Lender was aware that hed paid his first two loans early 
 and without any apparent payment problems. I appreciate that the credit checks it carried 
out confirmed that Mr B wasnt involved in any formal arrangement with creditors or bankrupt 
or in a debt management plan.
But, given that Mr B had previously alerted Mr Lender to his concerns about his dependency 
on high cost credit and having problems managing his money, I think that by loan 3 
Mr Lender shouldve realised that it needed to carry out more in-depth enquiries and verify 
Mr Bs actual financial situation and not just rely on the information he provided and the 
information it had gathered so far.
And, had it done so, I think Mr Lender wouldve seen that Mr B had correctly identified that 
he had become over-reliant on expensive credit and he was effectively borrowing primarily to 
fund his existing credit commitments  which werent sustainably affordable for him. 
I've seen a copy of Mr Bs credit file covering the period running up to January 2019 when 
Mr Lender provided loan 3 to him. Im not saying that Mr Lender should have necessarily 
obtained a credit report - but in the absence of other evidence, I think this gives a reasonable 
insight into Mr Bs finances at the time. And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Bs 
finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money.
His credit file shows that Mr B had an established record, dating back a number of years, of 
borrowing from multiple providers of high cost credit. Around the time he took out loan 3, 
I think Mr Lender shouldve seen, had it carried out more detailed enquiries, that Mr B had at 
least five other short term loans outstanding. Mr Lender would also likely have found out that 
Mr B had recently opened two new credit cards and run these up close to their limit within 
the first month or so  and he had other cards also with limited credit available. 
All this debt needed to be serviced and Mr B was also paying £285 each month towards a 
hire purchase agreement - this figure alone was significantly more than the amount of £200 
in total that Mr Lender had allowed for Mr B spending on other credit. By my reckoning, the 
monthly repayments on these credit commitments came to more than £600  and given that 
Mr Lender had worked out that Mr B had only £700 disposable income, I think it shouldve 
realised that it wasnt likely he would be able to sustainably afford the monthly repayments 
on loan 3. 
I think that all this information paints a picture of someone struggling with debt and that it 
was wrong for Mr Lender to provide loan 3, and all the loans that followed after, to Mr B.  
For these reasons, as things stand, Im planning on upholding the complaint about loans 3 
and 4 (as well as loans 5  6 in respect of which Mr Lender has already agreed to provide 
redress).What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B has told me that his account is still open but he has nothing further to add to what I've 
said in my provisional decision. 
Mr Lender has told us it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3 - 6, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".D. Remove any adverse information for loans 3 - 5 from Mr Bs credit file. The overall 
pattern of Mr Bs borrowing by loan 6 (when hed been borrowing from Mr Lender 
for over 18 months without any significant gaps in lending) means any information 
recorded about this loan is adverse  so Mr Lender should remove loan 6 entirely 
from Mr Bs credit file.
E. Remove Mr B from its mailing list so that he no longer receives unsolicited 
invitations from Mr Lender to apply for more loans. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 3 - 6. PDL Finance 
Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman