DRN-3095861
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit limit 
on his credit account and wont provide evidence as to why.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Mr T and advised that they had received a notification that his income had 
reduced and that because of this they were lowering the credit limit on his account. Mr T 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that their decision to lower the credit 
limit on Mr Ts account wasnt because of any notification that theyd received about Mr Ts 
income, but rather was because of a review that they were applying to a number of customer 
accounts whereby they were asking customers to verify their income so as to sure that the 
amount of credit being offered to those customers was affordable for them. Barclays also 
noted that the terms and conditions of the credit account allowed them to lower the credit 
limit at any time. Because of this, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd asked Mr T to verify his income and then 
lowered the credit limit on his account when Mr T hadnt done this, and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matted was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr T for Barclays to have taken the 
decision to lower the credit limit on his account, given that his financial circumstances hadnt 
changed in any way that would appear to warrant such an action.
Mr T has stated that Barclays wrote to him and said that they had received notice that his 
income had reduced and that this was why his credit limit was being lowered. 
Barclays havent been able to provide the specific letter sent to Mr T which informed him 
that his credit limit was being lowered, but they have been able to provide templates of two 
letter types that were sent to customers as part of the campaign which Mr T was included in, 
and its notable that neither of these letter templates include that Barclays have received any 
form of notification that the customers income has been reduced, but rather that they 
explain that the credit limit is going to be lowered to make sure that its affordable for that 
customer while inviting the customer to provide verification of their income if they want to 
potentially avoid their credit limit being lowered.
Additionally, its also notable from Barclays response to Mr Ts complaint that they 
specifically explained to Mr T that their decision to reduce the limit on Mr Ts account wasnt 
as a result of any notification that they received about Mr Ts income, but rather was 
because of a campaign that Barclays were running where they were asking customers who 
have had accounts open for a long time to validate their income.
This campaign seems reasonable to me, and it would be considered good practice for a 
credit provider to take steps to ensure that the amount of credit being provided to its 
customers remains affordable for those customers, especially if Barclays understanding of 
those customers financial position hadnt been updated for some time. And Im satisfied that 
it was for this reason that Barclays sent the letter to Mr T that they did.
It also must be noted that its up to a credit provider to decide how much credit it will 
continue to offer to a customer, and its evident from the terms and conditions of the credit 
account that Mr T holds that Barclays maintain the right to reduce the credit limit on that 
account at any time.
Of course, It can be the case that the terms of an account are applied in such a way that an 
unfair outcome occurs as a result. But I dont feel that this is the case in this instance, and 
the reason I say this is that Barclays invited Mr T to verify his income so that Barclays could 
make an assessment of the amount of credit they were willing to provide to him based on the 
amount of income that Mr T was able to verify. 
But Mr T chose not to verify his income, and while that is, of course, a choice that Mr T is 
entitled to make, Im satisfied that Barclays are consequently also entitled to choose to lower 
the credit limit on Mr Ts account as a result of Mr T electing not to verify his income with 
them as requested.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this may not be the outcome that Mr T had wanted, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman