DRN-3660495
The complaint
Mr M complained that his claim for his stolen watch was unfairly declined by Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) under his home insurance policy. He felt he was 
treated differently to other customers.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his policy when his branded watch was stolen. Mr M said he bought 
the watch through an online site for £2,890.
Lloyds validated the claim but were not satisfied with the evidence Mr M provided that a loss 
of a genuine branded watch had occurred or to demonstrate the value of the watch. So, it 
declined the claim.
Mr M thought he had provided sufficient evidence and thought his claim had been unfairly 
declined.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Lloyds had followed a 
reasonable process to validate a loss had occurred. She said it used an independent expert 
to provide additional assurance. She thought Lloyds had been reasonable in saying 
insufficient evidence of the loss and value of the watch had been provided. She didnt see 
any evidence Mr M had been treated unfairly. Mr M disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its normal when a claim is made against a policy that the insurer validates the claim. The 
terms and conditions of the policy sets out the expectations of what Lloyds would do 
normally in these circumstances.
The terms and conditions state you must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To
assist with this we may request you to provide reasonable additional information at your own 
expense. Examples are:
 Original purchase receipts, valuations, invoices, instruction booklets, bank statements or 
photographs;
 Purchase dates of lost or damaged items;
 For damaged items, confirmation by a suitably qualified expert that the item you are 
claiming for is beyond repair.
So, I have considered whether Lloyds has reasonably followed the expectations it has set 
out in its terms and conditions. Lloyds said:
The only proof of ownership that you had was videos of you in which it can be seen you are 
wearing a watch.
The model that you are claiming for is a highly desirable [watch], a watch that has had a wait 
list and trades for significant value on the secondary market.
Whilst you have provided a cash withdrawal of £1,867 on the 25th January 2021 there is no 
way to link this to any purchase. The handwritten receipt that you have since provided also 
contains none of the expected details such as the model, serial number or seller details.
Our suppliers have confirmed that the secondary retail value for [the desirable watch] is 
significantly higher than what you have paid.
Given that [the brand of watch] is the most counterfeited watch brand in the world it is 
imperative that we are able to establish that the watch is authentic. Had this loss been 
reported to the police they would have asked for the same information, however due to the 
box and certificate been disposed of by yourself there is no way for us to establish this was a 
genuine [branded watch].
Ive looked at the evidence that Mr M provided and whilst I can see Mr M has attempted to 
provide the information that has been requested. I think Lloyds explanation as to why it 
hasnt been able to accept the claim is a reasonable one. I think the commentary it has 
provided is a fair for the evidence that has been submitted. Therefore, I wont be upholding 
this complaint and Ill explain a little more why I think this.
The cash withdrawal is for a different amount to the receipt that has been provided, 
therefore, I think Lloyds has been reasonable in saying there is no way of linking it to the 
purchase.
The handwritten receipt doesnt contain any of the information that would normally be 
expected to be on a receipt, such as model, serial number and seller details. So, I dont find 
this evidence persuasive. Mr M also didnt have any of the original boxes or certificate for the 
watch  he said it had been disposed of. So, as Lloyds have pointed out there isnt evidence 
to show the stolen watch was authentic  their suggestion is that it couldve been a 
counterfeit watch. Whilst Lloyds havent said it was counterfeit. I dont think Mr M has 
provided sufficient evidence to prove it was a genuine branded watch, so he hasnt proven 
his loss. So, I think Lloyds have been reasonable in not relying on this evidence.
Lloyds sought an independent expert view on what the value of the stolen watch wouldve 
been had it been a genuine branded watch. The expert said a genuine branded watch of that 
type would cost over £30,000 to purchase. The expert thought the purchase price Mr M paid 
was far too low for a genuine branded watch of the same type. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest this statement is unfair, so I think Lloyds has been fair to rely on it. As the 
purchase price was so much lower than what the expert predicted, I think its more likely Mr 
M had bought a copy of the genuine watch, rather one that was authentic. I think its 
possible he may not have been aware of this. 
Finally, Mr M shared a video of him wearing the watch. I think if the other evidence provided 
by Mr M had clearly evidenced the watch stolen was a genuine branded watch, then I think 
the video of him wearing the watch wouldve supported that evidence. However, I think the 
video just shows Mr M wearing a watch, it doesnt prove the watch was genuine. So, as the 
other evidence provided doesnt prove Mr M owned a genuine branded watch, I think Lloyds 
has been fair in declining the claim.
Mr M said he hasnt been treated fairly. I have reviewed the evidence provided and I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr M has been treated differently to what I would expect other 
customers in the same position to be treated. I see Lloyds has paid Mr £50 compensation as a goodwill gesture. I think this is fair in the circumstances. In summary, I think Lloyds has 
been fair in declining this claim, so I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require intend to require Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman