DRN-3079188
The complaint
Miss M has said that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) lent to her irresponsibly. Miss M said she was 
accepted for an unsecured personal loan, when Lendable should have known this wouldnt 
have been affordable for her.
What happened
In December 2019 Lendable lent £5,000 to Miss M. This was for the loan itself, and she was 
charged a £127 lending fee. This loan agreement for was a period of 60 months  with Miss 
M due to pay around £11,000 by the end of the term based on my calculations.
Miss M feels Lendable did the wrong thing by lending this money to her. She has explained 
that she already had a number of outstanding financial commitments at the time of the 
lending, which included another active unsecured loan, a credit card, and two overdrafts  of 
which one was overdrawn. And, she has said her credit rating at the time was poor.
 
In addition to this, Miss M has said she told Lendable she was not working at the time of 
applying for the loan  because she was off on sick leave. And that following this, she was 
dismissed from her job. Miss M feels that if Lendable had carried out sufficient checks when 
deciding whether to lend to her  the above would have become clear. And as a result, 
Lendable would have known the borrowing would have been unaffordable for her.
Because Miss M was unhappy with Lendables decision to lend, she raised a complaint with 
Lendable. Lendable responded and said it was satisfied that it had lent to Miss M 
responsibly, having carried out a number of checks before agreeing to provide Miss M with 
the loan. It explained Miss M had provided it with details of her income (it being told she 
worked part-time) and it had verified this income using standard industry tools. And that it 
checked Miss Ms credit file, and there wasnt any adverse information on this that was of 
concern. So, Lendable was satisfied it had carried out the necessary checks to ensure the 
loan was being correctly provided.
Lendable also said Miss M had made her first three payments for this loan on time  and 
when she called it in April 2020 to let it know she was having financial difficulties, it agreed to 
a repayment plan of £80 a month. Lendable said if Miss M was finding it difficult to meet this 
current plan, she could contact it, and it would look to alter the current plan or put in place a 
full payment deferral if required. 
Miss M was dissatisfied with Lendables response. And so, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Lendable had carried out proportionate checks when it was deciding whether to lend to Miss 
M. And, he didnt think the information the checks Lendable carried out suggested the 
lending was unaffordable or unsustainable.  
Miss M didnt agree. She still felt Lendable shouldnt have let to her. She noted that her 
credit score was poor at the time of her loan application. And, she said her income prior to 
taking out of loan was inconsistent, and if Lendable had checked her bank statements it 
would have realised this and seen that the loan was unaffordable for her. 
Because Miss M didnt agree with out investigators view, this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained my intended 
findings below. 
Its also important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to make repayment of the loan in a sustainable way?
If Lendable did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether 
to lend to Miss M?
If Lendable didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown Miss M would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way?
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to the loan provided to Miss M in December 2019.
Reasonable and proportionate checks?
In December 2019, Lendable was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether 
Miss M could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And when carrying 
out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be borrower focused. So, 
this means Lendable had to consider the impact the lending would have on Miss M  not just 
how likely it was that Lendable would receive its money back by the end of the term. 
As above, Lendable also had to make sure the checks were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, including 
 but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, 
current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and 
the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in December 2019. To do this, Ive 
looked at what checks Lendable completed, and what information it gathered at the time of 
lending, to see whether the checks it made were sufficient for Lendable to be confident the 
lending would be sustainable for Miss M.
And having done so, I dont think Lendable did complete proportionate checks, before 
agreeing to lend to Miss M in this instance. 
Miss M was borrowing over five years, and based on the APR rate for the loan, would be 
repaying over double the amount she had borrowed. So, the checks Lendable completed would have needed to be proportionate - enough to assure itself that Miss M could make the 
repayment of £186.27 a month sustainably for this period of time.
In terms of income  Lendable did complete some checks. It said it asked Miss Ms income, 
and she explained this was £1,087 a month. I havent seen a copy of any application Miss M 
made. But Ive no reason to doubt this information was given. I can see that Lendable did 
also complete a check on this information. It used a standard industry tool, which looks to 
see whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover of the consumers bank 
accounts. And the check came back showing it was.
But in terms of expenditure  I dont think Lendable completed enough checks. This service 
has asked Lendable for any further evidence of income and expenditure checks it 
completed. And none have been provided.
 
Ive not seen any evidence which shows Lendable gathered information or considered the 
usual living expenses Miss M may have needed to pay with her income of £1,087 a month.
By that I mean, I cant see any questions were asked, or information gathered, on things like 
Miss Ms rental costs, utility bills or monthly travel costs. Or that Lendable looked to check 
Miss M would be left with funds after all of her commitments, including this potential loan 
repayment, for any unexpected expenses.
So, I cant see how Lendable could have been satisfied Miss M would be able to repay the 
loan sustainably  in the absence of information on Miss Ms existing expenses.
Lendable did look into Miss Ms existing credit commitments  by reviewing Miss Ms credit 
file. This didnt show any arrears or defaults, and most credit commitments were up to date. 
However, the credit file did show two accounts on which Miss M was at the limit of her 
approved overdrafts (in fact, one was overdrawn, so had exceeded its limit). The amount 
Miss M owed on these accounts £3,017. This being almost three times Miss Ms monthly 
income. And, the existing credit commitments Miss M had were almost a third of her 
disclosed annual income.
Given the lack of proportionate checks here, I dont think Lendable did enough to satisfy 
itself that Miss M would be able to pay £186.27 a month sustainably, over what was a 
lengthy period of five years.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown the lending could be repaid 
sustainably?
With this in mind, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. I 
do appreciate that different checks show different things, and proportionate checks might not 
have extended to Lendable looking at bank statements. But, in the absence of anything else, 
Ive reviewed these to get an idea of what Lendable likely would have discovered if it had 
perhaps asked Miss M some questions about her expenditure.
Miss Ms bank statements show that in the couple of months prior to the loan she was living 
beyond her means and struggling to manage her financial situation. Her statements show 
she was using her overdraft (and exceeding this limit) on day to day expenses. And the bank 
statement showed that Miss Ms income was in fact less than the declared sum of £1,087.
Having considered the above, I think if Lendable had done proportionate checks it ought 
reasonably to have realised that Miss M most likely wouldnt be able to repay the loan 
without undue difficulty or having to borrow from elsewhere. It follows that Lendable should have reasonably realised that Miss M was unlikely able to sustainably repay her loan and 
concluded that it was not appropriate for her.
Was a fair decision made?
Overall, I dont think Lendable made a fair decision to lend to Miss M on this occasion.
Proportionate checks werent completed, and if they had been, I think these would have 
shown the borrowing wasnt affordable. And so, I think Lendable acted irresponsibly in its 
lending decision.
Putting things right
Given the above, Im intending on requiring Lendable Ltd to refund all of the interest and 
charges Miss M has paid in relation to this loan. 
I understand Miss M would like Lendable to write off the outstanding debt, so this isnt due. 
But, although I consider Lendable lent to Miss M irresponsibly, she did have the benefit of 
the funds. So, Im not intending on asking it to write off the capital of the loan.
Whilst I think its fair Miss Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, I 
dont think its fair for her to be disadvantaged by Lendables decision to lend to her 
irresponsibly. So, I think Lendable should remove any negative information recorded on Miss 
Ms credit file in relation to this loan.
Neither party have responded to my provisional decision with further comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And having done so, I uphold this complaint. Neither party has provided me with any 
additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional decision noted above. So, my final 
decision remains the same as that detailed in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Lendable 
Limited to;
Add up the total amount of money Miss M has received as a result of being given this 
loan in December 2019. The repayments Miss M has made should be deducted from 
this amount.
(a) If this results in Miss M having paid more money than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until date of settlement). *
(b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Lendable should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss M.Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file related to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much take its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman