DRN-4066220
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him when he could not afford it.
What happened
Mr B applied for and was approved for two loans. One was for  £200 on 23 May 2018, and 
then a second one for £400 loan on 2 August 2018. The first loan was repayable over three 
months at £84.13 each month. It was repaid on 31 July 2018 and a couple of days later Mr B 
took loan 2 which had a repayment schedule of four months at £156.40 each month so a 
marked increase.
According to MoneyBoats records, the loan was unpaid in May 2022 and so as it was a
2018 loan I think its likely that the loan remains outstanding.
Mr B complained to MoneyBoat in May 2022 and received its final response letter (FRL) that
same month. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr B was not content and referred his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at it and thought that MoneyBoat had not done anything
wrong in relation to loan 1. But he did think Mr B was paying out too much each month on
other credit for loan 2 to have been affordable. Our adjudicator had used the credit search
results MoneyBoat had obtained the day the loan was approved in August 2018. He said:
Ive estimated Mr Bs existing monthly credit commitments to be around £780 from
the credit checks completed at the time of the second loan. Deducting these credit
commitments from his £1,400 declared monthly income along with declared
outgoings of £300 for rent, £80 for food and £100 for other expenses, leaves £140
from which Mr B would be expected to make the four loan instalments of about £155
each.
I think the information you gathered showed Mr B was having problems managing his
money. In these circumstances, I think you ought to have realised it was unlikely 
Mr B wouldve been able to sustainably repay the second loan.
MoneyBoat disagreed and said that our adjudicators reading of the credit file MoneyBoat
had at the time was wrong.
Our adjudicator did accept a couple of the amendments MoneyBoat had pointed out in
relation to the credit search results from 2018. That effectively reduced the amount the
adjudicator had calculated as being Mr Bs monthly cost for his debt. 
But as the matter remained unresolved the complaint was passed to me to decide. On 
21 March 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I gave reasons why I considered that 
the complaint ought not to be upheld.
 
I gave time to both parties to respond and neither has. And so, set out in the next section is 
a duplicated provisional decision (in smaller type) followed by my final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered several different things, such
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income and
expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. But I do not consider that this 
applied to Mr Bs situation as he took two loans only. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
the provisional decision  duplicated 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B did not respond to our adjudicators view and so from that I take it to mean he has no
issue with the adjudicators outcome. So, I dont think that Mr B disagrees with the non-
uphold for loan 1. So, Ive not gone into detail about that loan.
For the avoidance of doubt, reviewing what I have about that loan and the information
MoneyBoat had before approving Mr Bs first loan application then I agree with our
adjudicator. I do not think that MoneyBoat lent irresponsibly. Loan 1 was for £200, he was a
new customer to MoneyBoat and the loan term of three months was short. Mr Bs
commitment to repay loan 1 to MoneyBoat was not particularly high each month and so
overall I consider that Mr Bs complaint about loan 1 ought not to be upheld.MoneyBoats records show me that Mr B repaid loan 1 without issue and then applied for
loan 2 and that good repayment record would have been one of the elements it would have
factored into the creditworthiness assessment for loan 2.
The second loan was for a modest sum of £400 and over a slightly longer term. The
repayments were higher and due to commence 31 August 2018.
When Mr B applied for loan 2 he told MoneyBoat he earned £1,400 a month after tax and his
outgoings were £300 for house expenditure, £50 a month for credit expenses, £100 for
utilities and £80 for food each month. Some of these figures seem low amounts, for instance,
£80 for food for a month is wholly unrealistic.
In the FRL MoneyBoat has set out a table in which it demonstrates that it had increased the
expenses amounts by a further £270. I recognise that this may well have been to anticipate
that Mr Hs general expenses were higher than he had told them they were. And I consider
that to have been a reasonable and prudent approach. On its own calculations MoneyBoat
considered that Mr B had £600 a month left over and so was able to afford the £157 a month
for this loan.
Reviewing the credit results MoneyBoat had obtained at the time then I have seen that Mr B
had the following to repay:
A £200 loan which was costing him £73 a month and the only unusual point about
this entry was that the balance was not reducing. That might indicate that it was too
new a loan to have registered any payment. Either way I have included the
scheduled £73 a month.
A loan where the balance was £982 costing Mr B £47 a month and this loan was one
he had when he took loan 1. So little change there.
A loan with a balance of £951 costing Mr B £52 a month and again, this was a loan
he had when he applied for loan 1.
A loan with a balance of £720 and the repayment was £108 a month.
A loan with a balance of £387 with a repayment of £124 a month.
In addition, listed in Mr Bs credit search results were two loans that Mr B had almost paid
off. These were the two MoneyBoat raised queries about after receiving our adjudicators
letter of opinion.
One of those two loans had a balance of £127 with a repayment of £63 a month and the
other had a balance of £58 with a repayment of £28 a month. As MoneyBoat has pointed
out, these were likely going to have been closed by the time the first payment for the second
MoneyBoat loan was due to be paid on 31 August 2018.
I think that there may have been one overlap of £63 with the first instalment of the
MoneyBoat loan 2, but I accept MoneyBoats submission in relation to them both  one of
these other loans would have been paid off by 31 August 2018 and the other was about to
be.
So, using the bulleted list above I think that Mr Bs credit commitment without the MoneyBoat
loan 2 payment being included was likely £73, plus £47, plus £52, plus £108 plus £124
which all comes to £404. And the Loan 2 MoneyBoat payment was going to take the amount
each month to just over £560 per month.
One payment for one month of £63 was going to have to be paid as well and then I think that
loan would have been paid off.
This is where my view departs from that held by our adjudicator - his thoughts were that
Mr B had about £780 to pay each month on credit commitments but both MoneyBoat and
I disagree with those figures. I think it was more like £560 including the new MoneyBoat
loan 2.So, proceeding on £560 a month for credit commitments going forward, including the
MoneyBoat loan 2, then that would have been around 40% of Mr Bs net monthly take-home
pay. Still a little high but I have thought about this and for a £400 loan for a relatively short
term I do not consider it to have been a percentage that MoneyBoat would have considered
not achievable for Mr B.
Adding in Mr Bs other costs and commitments I think the loan was affordable. And Ive had
to consider those expenses too as I can see that MoneyBoat did think that what Mr B had
declared was too low and yet its additional sum (£270) had not been itemised.
So, if I use Mr Bs declared amounts of £300 for house expenditure, £100 for utilities and
£80 for food each month and add in the £270 MoneyBoat thought it ought to be increased by
then that comes to £750.
Ive not included the £50 Mr B had declared for his credit commitments as that was incorrect.
Ive used the £560 credit commitments as assessed using the credit search results as I have
explained earlier in this decision. That figure includes the MoneyBoat loan 2 repayment
figure as well.
And so, the total comes to £1,310. With a declared income of £1,400 then I consider that
these were the more realistic figures. And so, I consider that Loan 2 was affordable.
Looking at Mr Bs overall credit situation, the credit search results obtained by MoneyBoat on
2 August 2018 contained some headline figures. Mr B owed £3,918 in total of which £3,707
were loans and £200 was a revolving credit account  such as a credit card.
Mr B had opened several accounts in the six months leading up to applying to MoneyBoat
for loan 2, but one of those would have been the first MoneyBoat loan and his overall
payment status was good. He had no defaults, no delinquent accounts, and one late
payment in the last three years. All these factors created the picture that when MoneyBoat
was carrying out its creditworthiness assessment then it was not likely to have been placed
on alert to some deeper financial problem with Mr B.
Mr B has sent to us many screenshots of his credit situation. These are rather disjointed and
many are undated but as screenshots I gather they likely are representations of Mr Bs
current credit report status.
My focus when being asked to consider an irresponsible lending complaint is what
MoneyBoat looked for, found and assessed at the time the loans were being applied for. And
so, the credit search result document MoneyBoat obtained in August 2018 was the relevant
document for the purposes of this complaint for loan 2.
Reverting to what Mr B said in his complaint form I appreciate that Mr B has explained that
at the time he had a gambling issue and I was sorry to read this. But it would have been
disproportionate to expect MoneyBoat to have asked for and reviewed Mr Bs bank account
statements when the loans were relatively modest and his credit search results it undertook
revealed nothing to alert it to an underlying problem. I do consider that what MoneyBoat did
do was enough. And so its not likely that MoneyBoat would have seen any copy bank
statements which may have revealed what Mr B spent his money on.
And having reviewed the information Mr B gave to MoneyBoat when he applied for the
loans, he has not indicated anywhere that he had a gambling issue at the time. Its not
something I would have expected MoneyBoat to have known about Mr B unless he had told
them. And I do not think its likely that MoneyBoat would have known.
In the circumstances I consider that MoneyBoat was not wrong when it lent to Mr B for both
loans 1 and 2.
I plan not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision.Neither party has replied to it or sent to me anything further to consider. In the circumstances 
I have reconsidered the complaint and I have come to the same outcome for the same 
reasons as given in my provisional decision. Those findings are duplicated here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman