DRN-3391614
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) delayed the refinancing of their 
buy to let mortgage creating additional costs for them.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J says they had arranged to refinance their buy to let mortgage (BTL) with 
Sainsburys, as their fixed interest rate product was coming to an end and it was reverting to 
the standard variable mortgage interest rate. Mrs J and Mr J says their solicitor approached 
Sainsburys for a redemption statement in late October 2020 but as this hadnt been 
received, Mr J contacted Sainsburys to find out why. Mr J says he was given misleading 
information about the receipt of the redemption request and the need for a formal signature 
on the authority form Sainsburys says it required. Mr J says Sainsburys then failed to send 
a faxed redemption to his solicitors when it should have, and it wasnt until 16 November 
2020 when it was finally received by his solicitors - almost three weeks after his initial 
request.
Mr J says when the redemption statement arrived it included an early repayment charge 
(ERC) which he says wasnt correct and he had documentation to prove that. Mr J says he 
raised various complaints with Sainsburys about the service issues and the ERC payable 
and these havent been answered adequately. Mrs J and Mr J feel Sainsburys should 
recompense them for the extra interest they have had to pay during the time it took to finally 
redeem their BTL and the inconvenience this has caused them.
Sainsburys have accepted it did make some mistakes when it failed to send the faxed 
redemption statement to Mr Js solicitor and for the time it initially took to respond to Mrs J 
and Mr Js redemption statement request. Sainsburys says it offered £75 by way of an 
apology for this which was declined by Mrs J and Mr J. Sainsburys says it correctly included 
an ERC in the redemption statement it originally provided to Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor, in line 
with the mortgage terms and conditions. Sainsburys says it provided this in time for Mrs J 
and Mr Js solicitor to have completed the re-mortgage and subsequently sent a second 
redemption statement again in time to meet the deadline required, post the ERC expiry date. 
Mrs J and Mr J werent happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and partially upheld the complaint. 
Although he felt Sainsburys had correctly quoted an ERC when it did in mid-November 
2020, it had caused unnecessary delays when dealing with Mrs J and Mr Js initial request 
for a redemption statement. 
The investigator felt Sainsburys should pay Mrs J and Mr J a total of £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Neither Mrs J and Mr nor Sainsburys agreed with the investigators view and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mrs J and Mr J to have the 
completion of their re-mortgage delayed and incur extra costs as a result.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Sainsburys were responsible for the extra 
time it took to complete the re-mortgage of Mrs J and Mr Js BTL, and the extra associated 
interest costs that followed.
Mrs J and Mr Js complaint falls into two parts that are directly linked, firstly that Sainsburys 
were responsible for the delay in the completion of their re-mortgage, creating extra and 
unnecessary interest charges, and secondly it incorrectly quoted an ERC when it wasnt due. 
I have looked at the information provided by both parties here. Its fair to say Sainsburys, 
and by its own admission, could have dealt with Mrs J and Mr Js initial request for a 
redemption statement a little sooner and in addition it made an error when attempting to fax 
the redemption statement to Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor, in early November 2020. Sainsburys 
have apologised for this and offered to pay £75 by way of compensation. Mrs J and Mr J 
dont think this is sufficient and are of the view this initial delay in sending the redemption 
statement, in part contributed to the delay in the re-mortgage of their BTL. 
While I understand the points Mrs J and Mr J have made here, and I have considered the 
timeline they have provided to this service, I am not persuaded by their argument. I say this 
because I have been provided with evidence to show Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor requested a 
redemption statement on 12 November 2020, with a completion date set for 19 November 
2020, and this was faxed to them on 16 November 2020 by Sainsburys. This redemption 
statement included an ERC of approximately £3,000 which was challenged by Mr J and 
although he may not agree, I am satisfied  this was the main reason the completion date 
wasnt met, because Mr J didnt feel it was due. I have seen copies from both Mr J and 
Sainsburys of the original mortgage offer for the BTL and I am satisfied the correct version 
is provided by Sainsburys. I say this because it clearly shows the ERC was due - unlike the 
document Mr J provided, which was simply an illustration without reference to any specific 
property, and valid only for the day it was issued in August 2018.
With that in mind the redemption statement Sainsburys provided Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor 
on 16 November 2020 was correct and its reasonable to say it was provided in sufficient 
time for the requested completion date of 19 November 2020. In all probability, Mrs J and Mr 
J wouldnt have in any event wished to proceed with the completion at that time with the 
sizeable ERC, given the re-mortgage only needed to be delayed by less than two weeks 
before it was no longer chargeable. 
I can see Sainsburys sent a further redemption statement to Mrs J and Mr J solicitor on 27 
November 2020, by fax, following a request for this dated 24 November 2020, for a re-
mortgage completion date set for 2 December 2020. This would have given Mrs J and Mr Js 
solicitor four working days to arrange the redemption of their mortgage and while Mrs J and 
Mr J may not agree, I cant hold Sainsburys responsible for the fact their solicitor wasnt able 
to complete this in time. I have also been provided with the further request from Mrs J and 
Mr Js solicitor dated 1 December 2020, requesting a redemption statement with a 
completion date of 8 December 2020 and this was faxed on 7 December 2020. I cant say that on either occasion here Sainsburys have taken an unreasonable amount of time to 
provide the redemption statements to Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor and can be seen as the 
cause of the delay of the BTL being re-mortgaged elsewhere.
I havent seen any evidence to explain why Mrs J and Mr Js solicitor couldnt complete the 
re-mortgage before 2 December 2020. For the reasons I have already stated, I am satisfied 
this would have been the earliest date Mrs J and Mr J would have wished this to happen, 
otherwise a sizeable ERC would have been due.
When coming to a full and impartial decision, I am left to consider if the offer of £75 is 
sufficient compensation for the earlier delays Mrs J and Mr J experienced here and I am 
satisfied it was. I say this because I dont feel these earlier errors, although they caused 
some inconvenience, were ultimately the cause of the delay in the completion of the re-
mortgage of Mrs J and Mr Js BTL, for the reasons I have already stated. Its not my role to 
penalise banks when a genuine mistake like this occurs, more that an apology is made and it 
offers an appropriate level of redress, and I am satisfied that happened here.
I suggest Mrs J and Mr J should approach Sainsburys should they now wish to accept this 
offer.
While Mrs J and Mr J will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I dont propose to 
ask anymore of Sainsburys here. 
Sainsburys have accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs J and Mr J havent responded, 
so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision. here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs J and Mr J and Sainsburys until 23 March 2022 to accept or reject my 
provisional decision. Sainsburys have accepted my provisional decision, but Mrs J and Mr J 
have made no further comment. With this in mind, I see no need to change or add to my 
provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman