DRN-1843450
 
The complaint
Ms F complained about 2 loans she took out through a company called PDL Finance 
Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Ms F says she was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Ms F took out 2 payday loans from Mr Lender between December 2013 
and April 2014. I enclosed a summary of Ms Fs borrowing with Mr Lender, based on the 
information it provided to us:
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be partially 
upheld, from the point of loan number 2 onwards. Mr Lender didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Ms Fs complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment 
amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Loan amount Repayment 
amount
1 30/12/2013 30/4/2014 £250 £337.50
2 30/04/2014 27/5/2017 £600 £780refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Ms F 
could sustainably make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Mr Lender most likely carried out would have been quite basic ones. But for 
loan number 1, I think such checks were probably proportionate given the new lending. And 
initially I think the amount borrowed, being fairly low, probably looked affordable.
I therefore dont uphold this part of Ms Fs complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 2, the situation was different. Ms F applied for this 
loan directly after already having obvious difficulties in repaying loan 1, evidenced by her 
requesting it to be rolled-over several times. Also for loan 2, the amount she ask to borrow 
increased by quite a bit. So, if Ms F had exhibited difficulties paying back £250, its 
reasonable to assume that paying back £600 would also be hard for her.
Ms F also declared her net income (after tax) as around £1,300 per month, which in my 
experience is a moderate salary. She also provided details about her main items of 
expenditure which made her remaining available income look quite tight. Given that the 
single repayment required on loan 2 was £600 without any interest and charges applied, I 
think its obvious the lending was at an already unsustainable level for loan 2. 
In short, the lending represented such a large proportion of Ms Fs disposable income as to 
leave her with no room to manoeuvre. She was lent to irresponsibly and Mr Lender failed in 
its duty to see the lending was sustainable.
I therefore uphold her complaint in respect of loan 2.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms F, Mr Lender should:
A. refund all interest and charges Ms F paid on loan 2;
B. pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;C. pay Ms F the total of A plus B;
D. remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Ms Fs credit file in 
relation to loan 2;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms F a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Fs complaint and I direct PDL Finance Limited, trading as it was as Mr 
Lender, to put things right for Ms F as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman