DRN-2186093
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as 
Alphera Financial Services, has dealt with his payments for a car that was supplied to him 
under a hire purchase agreement. His wife is also involved in his complaint. 
 
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in October 2017. Mr W made an additional payment of £1,000 in 
June 2018 but then asked for it to be refunded to him. Alphera Financial Services provided 
him with incorrect information about the refund and made some administrative errors which 
meant that the payment couldnt be refunded to him, the agreement needed to be reworked 
and the original agreement being marked as settled. 
It offered to pay compensation of £100 to Mr W in July 2018 because hed been given 
incorrect information about the refund and Alphera Financial Services records show that a 
cheque for £100 was sent to Mr W. In August 2018 it also offered to refund two monthly 
payments (a total of £892.26) to him and its my understanding that that amount wasnt paid 
to Mr W and that he stopped making the monthly payments under the agreement. 
Mr W didnt sign the reworked agreement under which the monthly payment was reduced 
from £446.13 to £415.63 and he cancelled his direct debit. There was then a dispute about 
the amount that Mr W owed under the agreement so Mr W hasnt made any further 
payments for the car. Alphera Financial Services has provided inconsistent information 
about the outstanding amount and there was also a significant delay in an account statement 
being provided to Mr W. 
Mr W complained to Alphera Financial Services but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be 
upheld in part. He said that Alphera Financial Services should remove any adverse 
information from Mr W's credit file, that it should pay him the compensation that it had 
offered to him (if it hadnt already done so) and that it should allow him to pay the 
outstanding balance of his account at a rate of £415.63.
Mr Ws wife, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
She says, in summary, that:
Mr W didnt agree to the reworked agreement and cant make payments towards a 
contract he does not have;
the original agreement has been recorded as settled;
Alphera Financial Services is incapable of calculating an accurate balance and is 
trying to force Mr W into paying at least £1,600 too much; and
Mr W should be compensated for the time that theyve spent in pursuing an accurate 
balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there were issues with the agreement in June 2018 which caused it to be reworked 
and recorded on Mr Ws credit file as settled, Ive seen no other evidence to show that the 
agreement was ended or that Mr W either paid for the car or returned it to Alphera Financial 
Services. Mr W still has the car but isnt making payments for it and I don t consider that to 
be fair or reasonable. I consider that its fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services 
and Mr W to continue with the original agreement but with a reduced monthly payment of 
£415.63 and that Mr W should recommence monthly payments of that amount to it.
Alphera Financial Services accepted in July 2018 that it had given incorrect information to 
Mr W about the refund of his additional payment of £1,000 and it offered to pay him £100 
compensation  Mr W returned the acceptance form for that payment and Alphera Financial 
Services records show that a cheque for £100 was sent to him. If that didnt happen or if 
Mr W didnt cash the cheque, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera 
Financial Services to pay him that £100 compensation.
It then offered to refund two monthly payments (a total of £892.26) to him because of the 
distress and inconvenience that hed been caused. Its my understanding that that amount 
wasnt paid to Mr W so, if it hasnt been paid to him, I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to pay him £892.26. 
Mr W then cancelled his direct debit so the monthly payments required under the reworked 
agreement werent collected from him. That resulted in adverse information being recorded 
on his credit file and our investigator has recommended that Alphera Financial Services 
should remove that information because of its poor communication and errors. I consider 
that to be fair and reasonable because Alphera Financial Services errors have caused, or at 
least contributed to, the issues with his account.
There has been an on-going dispute about the outstanding amount that Mr W owes under 
the agreement and Alphera Financial Services has provided inconsistent information about 
the outstanding amount but its provided an account statement dated August 2020 which 
shows the transactions on the account and an outstanding balance of £6,759.83. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the account statement isnt true and 
accurate or that it overstates the amount that is due from Mr W.
Our investigator recommended that Alphera Financial Services should allow Mr W to pay the 
outstanding balance of his account at a rate of £415.63 each month. I consider that to be fair 
and reasonable  but on that basis, the payments will continue for many months after the 
agreement has been ended. If he can afford to do so, it may be beneficial to Mr W to pay 
more than that each month so that the arrears are cleared more quickly  but that is an issue 
for him.
There have clearly been some failings by Alphera Financial Services in connection with 
Mr Ws account  and those failings will have caused him distress and inconvenience. Its 
paid him £100 compensation and has offered to pay him a further £892.26 as compensation. 
I consider a total of £992.26 to be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr W has been caused so I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to increase the total amount of compensation that is payable to him.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera Financial Services to take the actions 
set out above but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay Mr W a higher amount of compensation than it has already offered to him or to take any 
other actions in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I order BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, to:
1. Pay to Mr W the compensation of £892.26 that it offered to him (if it hasnt already 
done so) and also the £100 that it paid to him by cheque in July 2018 (if it hasnt 
already done so or that cheque hasnt been cashed).
2. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file.
3. Allow Mr W to continue to pay £415.63 each month until he has repaid the arrears on 
his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman