DRN-3765618
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly gave him 
credit that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2016 Mr B took out a loan for £13,428.23, a term of 60 months and a monthly 
premium of £275.86.  
Mr B also took out a credit card 27 April 2016 with a credit limit of £3,000. This limit was 
increased to £4,000 on 6 July 2018. 
In 2021, Mr B complained to Nationwide to say that he was in financial difficulty before the 
account was opened and that adequate affordability checks werent carried out when the 
loans were provided. Mr B thought Nationwide ought to have understood he had a 
gambling habit and not provided him with increased credit.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide didnt respond. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Nationwide should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Mr B eventually contacted 
Nationwide in 2019 and explained he was in financial difficulties. Mr B had a gambling 
addiction and had made regular use of short-term lending. 
Our investigator set out in some detail why he thought Nationwide shouldnt have 
provided Mr B with either the loan or the credit card or its credit limit increase. Nationwide 
didnt respond to that assessment. As Nationwide has not engaged with the assessment 
findings, I have no specific counter arguments to review, So I will be briefer than I may 
otherwise have been. 
In this case the size of the credit card limit when it was issued, and later when it was 
added to by a sizeable loan, especially when considering the total amount that would be 
repaid over the term of the loan, should have, I think, lead Nationwide to conduct a 
proportionate check that checked Mr Bs financial situation more fully than they did. 
Nationwide needed to take into account everything it knew about its customer when 
deciding to lend. And I think that a proportionate check would have seen Nationwide use 
the information about Mr B that they had at their disposal when making its lending 
decisions. 
In this case Nationwide had an existing customer relationship with Mr B, as he held a 
current account with them, amongst other things. Mr B has provided us with copies of his 
bank statements for his Flex Direct account from these times, held with Nationwide. And 
the information on that account readily showed, or ought easily to have shown, that Mr B 
was gambling heavily throughout the times the lending decisions were made. Indeed, the 
level of activity was such that Mr B regularly spent more than his salary on betting. And 
sometimes he was spending more than twice his salary on gambling. It seems Mr B was 
having money transferred to him from others and making use of short-term lending. And 
Nationwide ought to have been able to see that through any basic enquiry about their 
customer. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown Nationwide that, despite its 
own process for calculating affordability, Mr B was in difficulty with managing his account 
alongside his other commitments and day-to-day living expenses. I also think there was a 
significant risk that further increases to his credit could have led to his indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds available to meet his debts and 
regular outgoings, and that Mr B might take the risk of making more and more use of 
expensive short-term lending. 
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Nationwide provided him with credit from 27 April 2016 
onwards. In my view, Nationwides actions unfairly prolonged Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the 
interest being added got him into further debt. 
So, for the above reasons I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide. And so, 
Nationwide should put things right.
Putting things right
As I dont think Nationwide ought to have lent Mr B the loan or the credit card, and the credit 
increase on it, in this complaint, I dont think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or 
charges under the credit agreements. But I think Mr B should pay back the amounts he has 
borrowed. Therefore, Nationwide should:
Rework the credit (loan and credit card) removing all interest and charges that have 
been applied, so that Mr B only needs to pay back the capital he borrowed. 
If Mr B has paid back more than the capital he borrowed, any overpayments  should 
be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Nationwide should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this credit from Mr Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Nationwide should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the credit should be 
removed from his credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im fully upholding Mr Bs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman