DRN-3825745
The complaint
Miss G complains British Gas Insurance Limited left her without heating or hot water for 15 
months following a claim against her homecare insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G says British Gas failed to reattend to resolve outstanding claim issues which led to 
her being without heating or hot water for 15 months. She says British Gas were meant to 
contact her to arrange an appointment but didnt. And despite chasing them in March 2021, 
nothing happened, and she got fed up of being ignored so she stopped contacting them. 
Miss G contacted British Gas a year later in March 2022. They attended to resolve the claim 
 restoring her heating and hot water. Miss G complained about the way things were 
handled. 
British Gas say their engineer that attended in 2020 failed to update the job which meant 
British Gas were unaware another visit was required. They say once Miss G notified them of 
this in 2022, they resolved matters promptly. They also paid Miss G £200 compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience caused. Miss G wasnt happy with the outcome and 
approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended it be upheld. While he thought Miss G could have mitigated 
her circumstances, he thought British Gas should pay her a further £400 compensation for 
the period Miss G had no heating and hot water between December 2020 and March 2021  
when Miss G says she contacted British Gas but nothing happened. 
British Gas didnt agree. They accepted their error but say Miss G didnt contact them until 
March 2022. They didnt think they were responsible for the entire period Miss G was without 
heating and hot water because they didnt know this was the case until 2022. 
I issued my provisional decision in November 2022 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss Gs responsibility under the contract of insurance was, amongst other things, to pay her 
premiums and report claims in a timely manner in line with the policy terms. Miss G fulfilled 
her responsibility under the policy. British Gass responsibility was to validate claims and 
indemnify Miss G in a reasonable timeframe, amongst other things. And they failed to do that 
here. 
Miss G was left without heating and hot water as the result of an error caused by British Gas. 
Their engineer in 2020 failed to update the job which meant the claim remained open  until 
it was resolved in 2022. The onus here was on British Gas to resolve the claim  not for Miss 
G to constantly chase British Gas to resolve it. 
Miss G says she contacted British Gas in 2021 but didnt get any further with the claim. She 
says she got fed up of chasing them, and didnt do anything for a year, until she complained 
in 2022 and the claim was resolved. 
British Gas say they have no record of Miss G contacting them prior to 2022  and once they 
became aware of the error then, they promptly resolved matters. But they also emailed Miss 
G in April 2022 saying the following: 
To have no heating for so long is completely unfair, especially when you called us multiple 
times and still didnt receive any form of appointment until a couple of months ago. It seems 
the engineer who visited in 2020 didnt update the job correctly and therefore our team didnt 
know there was an outstanding job to be done. That doesnt excuse anything though as that 
was a mistake we made which caused all of this to happen. 
This suggests British Gas accept Miss G called multiple times, but nothing happened. So, 
Im most persuaded that Miss G did call prior to 2022 when she says she did. Ive reviewed 
her testimony which I find to be plausible, consistent, and I dont think British Gass email of 
April 2022 undermines it. 
So, Im satisfied on balance its most likely Miss G called British Gas prior to the 2022 
complaint she raised. 
Ive mentioned above it wasnt for Miss G to chase British Gas to resolve the claim. I do, 
however, think there was some responsibility here on Miss G to mitigate her circumstances. I 
note in August 2021  some months after she says she stopped contacting British Gas  she 
received a renewal invitation from them, and the policy renewed. 
Given Miss G was paying for a service and raised a claim that hadnt been resolved, I think 
this renewal invitation ought to have prompted Miss G to contact British Gas to remind them 
a claim was outstanding, and of her circumstances. I know this invitation would have been 
received in the summer months  which could have impacted Miss Gs decision not to do 
anything. But in any case, I think Miss G could have acted to mitigate her circumstances 
following the March 2021 contact she says she made to British Gas. 
Our investigator thought British Gas should pay Miss G a further £400 compensation for the 
period between December 2020 when the claim was raised, to March 2021 when she says 
she chased British Gas, but nothing happened. I also consider this to be fair and reasonable. 
I think this increase in compensation fairly reflects the error caused by British Gas, the poor 
service Miss G received, and the impact on her during this period. 
I wont be requiring British Gas to pay Miss G compensation for the period between April 
2021 to March 2022 as I think during this period Miss G could have taken steps to mitigate 
her circumstances. This was also the period she received a renewal invitation which, as 
explained above, I think ought to have prompted Miss G to contact British Gas to remind 
them the claim was outstanding. 
Miss G has also said her energy usage increased during the December 2020 to March 2021 
period because she had to use electric heaters, amongst other things. I currently think if 
Miss G can provide British Gas with evidence that shows her usage increased as a direct 
result of the claim between this period, British Gas should pay Miss G the amount she 
otherwise wouldnt have paid. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I currently intend on upholding the complaint and requiring British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following: 
-Pay Miss G £400 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused: and 
-Cover the additional amount she paid for energy usage between the period of 
December 2020 to March 2021 upon evidence from Miss G to show the increased 
costs to her as a result of the claim. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
British Gas agreed a further £400 compensation was fair. They didnt, however, think it was 
fair that they cover Miss Gs increased energy amount between December 2020 to March 
2021. They say given Miss G was without a boiler, she would have used less gas but more 
electric  meaning this would offset the total amount she paid for energy, so the amount paid 
wouldnt have increased. 
Miss G responded to say it had been difficult to obtain and provide her energy bills as shed 
been unable to access these between the period set out above. Miss G contacted us to say 
British Gas have now posted these to her which will arrive in the next few weeks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the responses from both parties, I remain that British Gas should put 
matters right in the way I set out within my provisional decision  providing Miss G can 
evidence her energy costs increased as a result of the claim. 
British Gas say given Miss G wasnt using her boiler during this period, her energy usage for 
using electric heaters would have been offset by this  meaning her energy costs may not 
have increased. This might be the case, and in this scenario, I wouldnt expect British Gas to 
pay Miss G anything in this respect (other than the £400 compensation amount for any 
distress and inconvenience caused). 
If, however, Miss G can demonstrate her energy costs increased between December 2020 
and March 2021, British Gas will need to pay her the difference between her regular energy 
costs then, and the higher amount she otherwise wouldnt have paid had the claim been 
handled in the way it should have. 
Miss G will therefore need to demonstrate to British Gas her energy costs increased during 
the period between December 2020 and March 2021. If her energy costs did increase as a 
result of the claim between this period, British Gas should settle the complaint by paying her 
the difference. 
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited must now do the following to put matters right: 
- Pay Miss G £400 compensation: and 
- Cover any additional amount Miss G paid for energy usage between December 2020 
to March 2021 provided Miss G can demonstrate her energy usage increased during 
this period, and she paid more for energy than she otherwise would have done had 
the claim been resolved in December 2020. My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold it. I now require British 
Gas Insurance Limited to put matters right as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman