DRN-3846844
The complaint
 Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined a chargeback claim. She 
would like a refund for the item she paid for but didnt get.
What happened
Miss C purchased a car online paying for it on her Barclays credit card. She says despite 
being assured the car would be delivered it wasnt. So, she put in a chargeback claim to 
Barclays who declined the claim
Barclays said it didnt pursue a chargeback directly with the merchant as the payment was 
made through a third party so it said there were no grounds for a chargeback with the 
merchant.
It didnt pursue the chargeback claim with the third party who made the payment since there 
was no dispute that this party had made the payment.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that as the third party who made the 
payment was a payment processor this didnt prevent Barclays pursuing a chargeback with 
the merchant. She felt it should have done so and recommended that Barclays refunded 
Miss Cs purchase cost in full as she felt there was a good chance her claim would have 
been successful.
Miss C accepted our investigators view but Barclays didnt. It accepted that given the third 
party was a payment processor it should have considered a chargeback request against the 
merchant. However, as our investigator had stated Miss C had been subject to a scam, it 
explained that scams were excluded from the chargeback process so a chargeback wouldnt 
have been appropriate.
 
It offered as a gesture of goodwill to refund Miss C half of the cost of her purchase. It didnt 
feel it was appropriate to refund the full cost for two reasons. Firstly, there were no grounds 
for a chargeback request as scams were not covered by this scheme. And secondly it felt 
Miss C should have been aware of the potential scam - it felt the price of the car was 
unrealistic, the reasons for Miss C not being able to see the car pre purchase not plausible 
and there were negative reviews about the seller.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her mind. She was still of the 
view that had Miss Cs chargeback request been put to the merchant there was a good 
chance it would have been successful
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Miss Cs frustration having paid for a car she didnt get.
Barclays declined the chargeback as the payment was made for the car through a payment 
processor who did transfer the funds. Barclays said it couldnt raise a chargeback against 
the merchant who should have provided the goods as it was not involved with the 
transaction.
However, as our investigator correctly advised when funds are transferred through a 
payment processor that doesnt prevent a chargeback being raised against the merchant 
who should have provided the goods but didnt. There is no dispute that Miss C didnt get the 
car so I think Barclays should have raised a chargeback on her behalf with the merchant 
based on goods and services not received.
After our investigator issued her view Barclays made the point that if Miss Cs purchase was 
a scam that this wouldnt be covered under the chargeback scheme. Scams arent excluded 
from the chargeback scheme but there isnt always a chargeback rule they fit into. However, 
in this case there is a relevant rule - goods and services not received.
Although Barclays didnt accept our investigators view it did offer to refund half of the money 
Miss C paid. It didnt agree to a full refund as it felt the price of the car and the explanation 
as to why the car couldnt be viewed prior to payment was unrealistic and there were 
negative reviews online of the merchant. 
It seems to me that Barclays is applying the approach it would take in a fraud investigation 
where there might be an argument of contributory negligence. But the chargeback code for 
goods and services not received doesnt allow for any deduction based on possible 
customer negligence.
So, whilst I acknowledge the offer that Barclays has made I dont think its appropriate here. 
Miss C didnt get the car she purchased online; she was eligible for a chargeback claim 
against the merchant which I think would have been successful had Barclays pursued it. On 
this basis I think its only fair that Barclays refunds the full amount of the purchase Miss C 
made, with interest as detailed below.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss C £3659 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date Barclays declined the chargeback claim to the date of settlement .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023. 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman