DRN-1395764
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly allowed him to open an 
account with a £1,000 overdraft and also allowed him to spend in excess of that overdraft.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr G and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr G applied for an account with HSBC and on his application said he was earning £21,000 
per year. HSBC accepted his application based on the information he disclosed and the 
results of their electronic scoring system.
Mr G used his overdraft to gamble with and ran into financial difficulty and so his mother 
(Mrs G) made a complaint to HSBC advising them of Mr Gs gambling addiction. HSBC 
responded by agreeing to waive and refund interest and charges, and Mrs G paid off the 
overdraft. HSBC didnt however believe they had done anything wrong in granting the 
overdraft to Mr G nor allowing him to exceed his limit, and so they rejected his complaint.
Mr G was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that HSBC 
had done anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into 
account both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably. Ive 
looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have to make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. And in this case, I dont think that HSBC has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether HSBC carried out sufficient checks when opening Mr 
Gs account and granting him an overdraft of £1,000, which he had specifically requested. 
Mrs G advances the argument that HSBC and indeed other lenders in that position should 
carry out documentary checks on an applicants income to see if the product they are 
applying for is affordable.When Mr G applied for the account and overdraft, HSBC needed to carry out checks which 
were proportionate to things like the amount of credit being applied for and the information 
Mr G had provided about his financial situation. They needed to check whether he would be 
able to repay anything he borrowed in a way which was sustainable. But there isnt a set list 
of checks which HSBC had to do. HSBC say their decision to offer credit was based on 
information supplied by Mr G, and data from the credit reference agencies applied against 
their own risk strategies. And they say they did complete various checks including 
affordability and indebtedness checks before approving the application. 
In Mr Gs case I think HSBC were entitled to rely on the income Mr G disclosed on his 
application form. There is no way for HSBC to automatically check that information and it 
would require, as Mrs G states, a specific request for the production of payslips or bank 
statements or indeed some other form of documentation to prove the income. That in my 
view, in the circumstances of this case, would be disproportionate. Mr G was opening a new 
account and the overdraft was modest. I acknowledge Mrs G disagrees, but in my view, 
objectively, it is a modest amount, on a declared income of £21,000. And there is no 
regulatory requirement for HSBC to obtain such documentation.
But HSBC did undertake other checks. They checked Mr Gs credit file and that revealed no 
default markers or missed payments. Whilst I agree that that does not show the level of 
commitments a person has, nor their overall indebtedness, what it does show is that they 
are, at that point in time, managing their finances without defaulting. And there was no other 
information provided nor known which could have alerted HSBC to the fact that Mr G had a 
gambling addiction. So I think HSBC did act fairly here in approving Mr Gs application after 
reviewing his declared income and a full credit scored application including searches with 
Credit Reference Agencies.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs G would wish there to be tighter regulation, our service doesnt 
have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change 
their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of the 
individual complaint and check that HSBC followed its rules and procedures and is applying 
them fairly to all customers. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) takes a principles-based approach to conduct 
regulation and lets businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way 
they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under 
the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how 
businesses review their policies. Any overall concerns about business process would need 
to be raised with the FCA.   
I do acknowledge that HSBC allowed Mr G to go slightly over his overdraft limit on a few 
occasions, but this was never by very much, and I do think that in allowing that, it is a 
reasonable approach to take towards their customers. So I dont think HSBC acted unfairly 
in this regard either.
I know Mrs G would like the monies spent on the overdraft effectively refunded by HSBC, but 
as I dont think theyve done anything wrong here, and Mr G has had the benefit of the 
money the overdraft provided, I dont think that would be fair. Ive also not seen anything 
which shows that Mr G told HSBC about his gambling issues before Mrs G notified them. 
So, although Mr G will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say HSBC has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman