DRN-3370605
The complaint
Mr B complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) rejecting a claim for 
treatment to his dog under his pet insurance policy, because they said the limit for the 
condition claimed for had been reached.
When making his complaint to this service, Mr B was supported by a representative. 
References to Mr B in this decision include his representative.
RSA uses agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA include 
these agents.
In this decision, reference is made to Humeral Intracondylar Fissure (HIF). HIF is sometimes 
referred to as Incomplete Ossification of the Humeral Condyle (IOHC). For simplicity, this 
decision refers consistently to HIF. HIF is a condition where a crack (fissure) appears in the 
humeral condyle (one of three bones that make up the elbow joint). HIF increases the risk of 
a fracture or break in the elbow. While the reason for HIF developing in a dog isnt clear, it 
most commonly affects the breed of Mr Bs dog. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr Bs dog fractured its right elbow and required surgery. The vet who 
examined the dog asked Mr B for permission to scan the left leg as there was the possibility 
the dog had HIF. Mr B agreed to the scan and HIF was diagnosed in the left leg. It wasnt 
possible to scan the [fractured] right elbow because of the extent of the fracture. The vet 
recommended a pin be inserted in the left leg to reduce the risk of future fractures. Mr B 
agreed, but the surgery was deferred to allow the dog to recuperate from the surgery on its 
right elbow. The surgery on the left leg subsequently took place in December 2020.
 
Based on the surgery, two claims were made, one for surgery in October on the fractured 
right elbow (£6,573) and a second for the surgery in December on the left leg (£2,973).
RSA accepted the first claim, although they restricted it to the limit under the policy for any 
one condition (£3,000). But they declined the second claim because they considered the 
condition was linked to that of the first claim. As the limit for any one condition had been 
reached, they wouldnt make any further payment. 
Unhappy at the claim being declined, Mr B complained to RSA. He argued that the vet who 
treated his dog couldnt confirm the presence of HIF in the right leg because of the severity 
of the fracture. As it couldnt be confirmed then it was unfair to decline the second claim. Mr 
B also provided research that hed found which he said showed that the presence of HIF in 
one leg didnt automatically mean it would be present in the second leg.
In their final response RSA didnt uphold the complaint, saying that based on the clinical 
notes provided, both claims were for treatment where the need arose from the same 
proximate cause (HIF). In this context proximate cause meant the main cause in a chain of 
events. As both treatments had the same proximate cause (HIF was believed to affect both 
legs) then the policy limit applied to both claims (not to each separately). Based on this, RSA 
confirmed their original decision to decline the second claim (and limit the first).
Unhappy at RSAs response, Mr B complained to this service. The main part of his complaint 
was that RSA had unfairly declined his claim. He maintained that the vet who treated his dog 
was unable to confirm that HIF was present in the right elbow due to the nature and extent of 
the fracture. Nor did Mr B think that because HIF was present in one leg, it would necessarily 
have been present in the other. While Mr B accepted that the first claim was only covered up 
to the policy limit, he asked for the second claim to be accepted and reimbursed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any 
action. She concluded the evidence from the clinical notes indicated potential underlying HIF 
in the left leg and HIF detected in the right leg. The investigator noted RSA had contacted the 
vet to establish whether both legs were affected by HIF, and the response confirmed the 
presence of HIF in the left leg but that the vet couldnt tell if HIF was present in the right leg. 
The investigator concluded that RSA had acted reasonably in assessing Mr Bs [second] 
claim, considering the views from their own vets and the vet that treated Mr Bs dog.  
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. His main argument was that as the vet couldnt confirm the presence of HIF in the 
right leg, it was unfair for the second claim to be declined. Given the uncertainty, he thought 
at the very least there should be split liability and RSA cover 50% of the cost.
 
In my findings, I noted some inconsistencies in the vets notes and claim forms indicating 
uncertainty about the treatments administered to Mr Bs dog and subsequently claimed for. 
But having considered the views of both Mr B and RSA, including the additional evidence 
provided about HIF and its incidence in dogs, I concluded, on the balance of probabilities, 
that while the presence of HIF could not be definitively shown because of it not being 
possible to scan the right elbow, it is likely to have been present. Having concluded that it 
was likely to have been present in both legs, I also considered RSAs view that HIF was the 
proximate cause of the treatment covered by both claims. I was persuaded that this was the 
case, so I concluded RSA acted reasonably in their decision to decline the second claim 
(and restrict the first claim to the policy limit of £3,000).
Because of the uncertainty over the treatments administered and subsequently claimed for, I 
issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr B. 
The main issue in Mr Bs complaint is whether RSA acted fairly in declining the second claim 
by applying the proximate cause criteria to both claims, meaning that the policy limit had 
been reached (through the first claim). Mr B argues that the presence of HIF in one leg 
doesnt mean that it would be present in the other. Mr B also argues that because the vet 
couldnt conclude whether HIF was present in the other [fractured] leg, it was unfair for RSA 
to take the view that the proximate cause was the same. For their part, RSA say it was 
reasonable (from the clinical notes) to conclude that the same proximate cause affected both 
legs. So, they thought it was fair to apply the policy limit to both claims and so decline the 
second claim.Ive considered both views along with the relevant information and evidence available. This 
includes the clinical notes provided by the vets that examined Mr Bs dog at various points 
from the right elbow fracture in October 2020 through to the second claim for the surgery in 
December 2020. 
From these notes, as well as the supporting information from the two claims, it seems clear 
that HIF was present in the left leg, but that it wasnt possible to conclude that it was present 
in the right elbow at the time of the fracture, because of the severity of the fracture. But Ive 
noted a comment from the vet when the question was put to them by RSA when considering 
the second claim was that:
A ct scanon the 12th October revealed a fissure (HIF/IOHC) in the right distal 
humerus. I can confirm the presence of HIF/IOHC in the right distal humerus... 
however I cannot tell if HIF/IOHC was present in the left elbow as this was in a 
number of pieces at the time of the scan."
While this comment refers to the left elbow (being in pieces) I think it actually refers to the 
right elbow. While it wasnt possible for the vet to scan the right elbow to confirm the 
presence of HIF (or not) it seems to me that in recommending a scan on the other leg this 
reflected a concern that HIF was present, in either or both legs. That it was subsequently 
confirmed to be present in the left leg would also provide support for the recommendation. I 
also think that the need for surgery from the fractured right elbow might well have raised the 
possibility of HIF being present, given that it leads to the increased risk of elbow breaks and 
fractures, most commonly in the breed of Mr Bs dog.
 
So, on the balance of probabilities, Ive concluded that while the presence of HIF could not 
be definitively shown because of it not being possible to scan the right elbow, it is likely to 
have been present.
Ive also considered Mr Bs second argument, that that the presence of HIF in one leg 
doesnt mean it would automatically be present in the other. In support of this view, Mr B 
provided publicly-available information. Ive looked at the information and while its complex 
and technical, I did note a paper1 that included a comment that:
A fissure is frequently, but not invariably, found bilaterally.
Ive considered this carefully. While it indicates HIF isnt always found in both legs, reference 
to frequently suggests to me that it is more likely the case than not. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, Im persuaded that HIF is likely to have been present in both legs.
 
Ive also considered what RSA said about proximate cause and their final response that 
they considered HIF to be the proximate cause of both treatments. While proximate cause 
isnt defined in Mr Bs policy, there is a reference to Repeating or connected health issues 
that states:
If your pet suffers from a number of illnesses or injuriesthe treating vet will be 
asked if these health issues are connected.
If the vet confirms that they are, theyll be considered as one and the amount we pay 
you will be up to the vet fee limit for all the connected health issues.
1 Humeral condylar fractures and incomplete ossification of the humeral condyle in dogs (A Moores, from In 
Practice, July/August 2006Looking at this policy condition, I think RSAs decision to consider the claims for both 
treatments as arising from the same proximate cause to fall within the connected health 
issues meaning.
 
Having concluded that its likely (on the balance of probabilities) that it was present in both 
legs, then Im persuaded by RSAs view that it was the proximate cause of the treatment 
covered by both claims. Based on this then I think RSA have acted reasonably in their 
decision to decline the second claim (and restrict the first claim to the policy limit of £3,000).
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B responded to say that he accepted the provisional decision.
RSA responded to say that they had nothing further to add and thought my provisional 
decision was fair and explained the circumstances regarding the dogs two legs very clearly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B accepted the provisional decision and RSA had nothing further to add and thought 
my provisional decision was fair, then my findings and conclusions havent changed. My final 
decision remains the same for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman