DRN-3572902
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly declined a claim 
for loss of rent and damage to his property under his residential property owners insurance.
Any reference to Mr M or Fairmead includes the actions of any respective agents or 
representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M owns a property that he let to tenants. This property was insured by Fairmead.
The tenants stopped paying rent and refused Mr M access to inspect the home.
When the tenants left the property, Mr M discovered significant damage. Hes said 
that full repairs were completed at a cost of £10,000. 
In November 2020 Mr M sought to claim on his Fairmead policy. He was claiming for 
repair costs and a sum of £14,150 for loss of rent and court fees.
Fairmead requested information about the claim, and following some back and forth, 
it said Mr M had failed to provide sufficient information to support the claim, including 
full description of what happened, a crime reference number (as the matter related to 
malicious damage), and a breakdown of works completed. 
By July 2021 Mr M had provided details to say the damage was caused by the 
tenants leaving the taps on which flooded the property. And he had provided some 
photos of damage to the home. 
Fairmead continued to say Mr M had failed to provide information it had requested. 
And it said Mr M had failed to inform it of a claim as soon as reasonably possible of 
what happened, and that no crime reference number had been obtained. It said it 
would still consider a claim however on receipt of the evidence it had asked for. And 
it highlighted the photos provided simply showed wet floors and walls, and did not 
explain the works required.
Fairmead also declined to cover a loss of rent claim as it said the policy covered 
situations where a tenant is forced to vacate a property due to an insured peril, not to 
cover losses where a tenant refuses to pay rent. And here the claim related to an 
insured peril which has yet to be proved.
Mr M brought his complaint to this Service and said the claims were unfairly declined. 
He also said he wanted to re-let the property which is why he had the repairs 
completed himself before contacting the insurer.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Fairmeads 
requests for information were reasonable and its decision to reconsider the claim 
further upon receipt of this was reasonable. And she said the loss of rent claim would 
need to relate to an insured peril claim  which was yet to be proved here.
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Under Your duties Mr Ms policy says:
As soon as You are aware of an incident or cause which is likely to lead to a 
claim under this Policy, You must:
a) Contact Us as soon as reasonably possible and provide all the information and 
help We need;
b) Tell the police immediately about any property which has been lost, stolen or 
maliciously damaged and obtain a crime reference number...
The policy also requires the policyholder to provide proof of any loss.
These are common terms across insurance policies of this nature. An insurer being 
aware of a claim at the earliest stage will allow it to intervene if necessary and direct 
how a claim is settled, as is entitled to under the policy. And requesting information 
will often allow an insurer to validate a loss and ensure it is covered by the insurance. 
Ive kept these obligations in mind when deciding this case.
Claim for damage
Across the life of this claim Fairmead has requested various documents and details 
from Mr M. These have included a breakdown of costs incurred as well as details of 
what happened. Im satisfied these are reasonable requests in the circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Mr M and his agents have not been forthcoming with answering 
these questions, and in the most part havent provided relevant evidence to support 
the claim. And Ive kept in mind that Mr M seemingly has contacted Fairmead to 
settle costs he has incurred without its permission against the terms of the insurance.
Mr M has provided photos of water damage in the home as well as photos of rubbish 
left outside of the property. These photos on their own dont demonstrate how the 
damage occurred nor that an insured peril took place. So, I think Fairmeads request 
for further information  including simply what happened  was reasonable.
Mr M has also submitted a one-page letter from an estate agent who listed works that 
needed to be completed at his property, following a flood. This included new 
plumbing, flooring, drying, under floor, new electrics, full refurbishment alongside 
other works. The estate agent estimated these works would cost £10,000. This 
document looks to be little more than an estimate and Ive been given no invoice or 
quotes for works. So again, I think Fairmeads request for evidence to support the 
loss and understand how the damage took place was reasonable.
Fairmead has specifically sought to obtain a crime reference number from Mr M in 
line with its policy terms for malicious damage. It appears it has taken until August 
2021 for Mr Ms representative to say hed not obtained a crime reference number 
due to Covid-19 lockdown. Ive been given nothing to support this beyond an email 
from Mr Ms agent saying this was the case and this doesnt correlate with what Mr M 
has said elsewhere. In his commentary to this Service Mr M did not mention a police 
reference was not available, and suggested he simply wanted to resolve matters 
quickly to re-let the property. So, I think Fairmeads request for this is reasonable.In light of the above, Im satisfied Fairmead has handled this claim fairly and 
reasonably based on the very limited information it has been given by Mr M. And its 
decision to reconsider this in the future upon receipt of more information is a fair one.
Claim for loss of rent
Mr M seeks to claim for loss of rent since his tenants stopped paying between the 
period of January 2020 to November 2020 alongside court costs hed incurred. And 
he provided details of his efforts to seek repossession prior to making the claim.
As Fairmead has outlined, the policy covers loss of rent where the property in 
question is uninhabitable due to damage caused by an insured peril under the policy. 
At this time, this insured peril claim (as described above) has yet to be proven. So, 
Im satisfied its decline of this claim is reasonable.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman