DRN-1819195
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has incorrectly recorded 
information about their claims history on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr and Mrs S called Ageas to let it know that thered been an electrical surge 
following a lightning strike. This had caused some damage to some of their electrical items. 
About a month later, they let Ageas know most of the items could be repaired, for less than 
the cost of the policy excess. So there was no need to make a claim on the policy.
At the next renewal, Mr and Mrs S noticed the renewal premium quote had gone up. They 
queried this with their broker, who explained it was down to them making a claim on the 
policy. The broker later clarified that the incident in July 2017 hadnt been a claim, but that a 
notification had been logged on the policy for information purposes. Mr and Mrs S werent 
happy with the increase in the price of the policy and it lapsed. 
Mr and Mrs S took out a new home insurance policy through a new broker. That broker 
checked CUE and found out about the incident in 2017. Mr and Mrs S had to pay an admin 
fee to the broker and their no-claims discount with their new insurer was affected. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy they hadnt been told that the incident would be recorded on 
CUE and about the impact it had on their new insurance policy. They asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
broker had made it clear that the incident had been recorded. He said Ageas had been 
required to record the incident on CUE whether or not a claim was made. So he said he 
couldnt ask Ageas to remove the record from CUE.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. They said Ageas hadnt let them know the 
incident was being recorded on a national database. No-one had told them they needed to 
declare the incident to future insurers. They re-iterated that the record of the incident had 
affected their no-claims discount on their new policy. They said they wanted the incident 
record removed from CUE.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Ageas has treated 
Mr and Mrs S fairly. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that Im only looking into whether or not Ageas acted reasonably 
in recording the July 2017 incident on CUE. Mr and Mrs S have raised concerns about other 
financial businesses within their complaint  in particular, about their brokers. 
Ageas isnt responsible for any complaints about these financial businesses. Mr and Mrs S 
would need to make separate complaints to our service about each of these businesses if 
theyd like us to potentially look into their concerns. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are unhappy 
about the scope of my decision. But as their brokers are separate, regulated financial 
businesses, any complaints about them  need to be considered against them.
I know Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this complaint. Its clear from Ageas notes that 
although they enquired about making a claim following the electrical surge; ultimately this 
wasnt pursued. So I can understand why they feel it shouldnt have been recorded on either 
Ageas records or CUE.
But Ageas is signed up to CUE  a national database - where insurers record the claims 
history of their policyholders. Insurers can check this database when theyre deciding 
whether or not to offer potential customers insurance. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, itll 
record all incidents it finds out about, whether the incident leads to a claim or not. Insurers 
are obliged to provide CUE with accurate records. 
In this case, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S called up Ageas to let it know that they were 
considering making a claim on the policy. Ive carefully considered the wording of Mr and 
Mrs S policy. Theres a section called Claims and Underwriting Exchange register. Under 
this section it states:
Insurers pass information to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange registerUnder the 
conditions of your policy, you must tell us about any incident which may give rise to a claim. 
When you tell us about an incident, we or your insurer will pass this information to the 
registers and any other relevant registers.
I think Ageas policy makes it clear that policyholders need to tell it about any incident which 
might lead to a claim. And that this information will be passed onto CUE. In this case, while 
Mr and Mrs S didnt go on to pursue a claim; they did let Ageas know about an incident (the 
lightning strike) which couldve led to them making a claim.
So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Ageas to record this on Mr and Mrs S 
claims history and on CUE. Ive seen from Ageas notes that no claim was made as the 
value of the damaged items was below Mr and Mrs S policy excess. Ageas recorded the 
incident on CUE as notification only, which I think was the appropriate category, given it 
seems Mr and Mrs S paid for getting their items fixed themselves.
Overall, I think Ageas acted appropriately and in line with its obligations in recording the 
incident on CUE. This means I wont be telling it to change its records about Mr and Mrs S 
claims history.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman