DRN-4218042
The complaint
Miss C complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money continued to 
charge her a monthly fee for her account despite blocking her card and after she had cleared 
her outstanding balance. 
What happened
Miss C says her 118 118 Money credit card charged a monthly fee. She says that after she 
had made a separate complaint to them, they had blocked her card, but they still continued 
to charge her the monthly fee, even though she couldnt use the account. She says once she 
had cleared her outstanding balance, she thought the account would close since the card 
was blocked, however, they continued to charge her for a service she couldnt use. Miss C 
made a complaint to 118 118 Money.
118 118 Money did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. They said as she had a subscription fee 
based card, shes not charged interest but instead she has a monthly subscription fee which 
is charged regardless of usage. They confirmed they wouldnt be overturning the decision to 
block her account. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint. He said he didnt think it had been considered 
that with the account blocked for further use and with no outstanding balance whether it was 
fair to charge the fee. And he didnt believe it was fair. So he said 118 118 Money should 
refund Miss C £25 and close the account as per Miss Cs wishes. 118 118 Money did not 
respond to our investigators view of the complaint, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Cs account did have a monthly subscription fee and she would have needed to agree 
to this when she opened the account. But there are times when a strict application of the 
terms and conditions lead to an unfair outcome for a customer, and Im persuaded this is 
one of these times and Ill explain why.
Due to the separate complaint that Miss C raised, 118 118 Money put a block on Miss Cs 
account. Im persuaded this was fair to help limit any financial difficulty she had (and to 
prevent her increasing her outstanding balance). And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable 
for 118 118 Money to charge her a monthly subscription fee when she had an outstanding 
balance on her account even if her account was blocked (as they charge a subscription fee 
as opposed to interest). 
But I can see from the statements that Miss C has provided us that 118 118 Money charged 
her one last monthly subscription fee after her balance had been repaid. Given that the 
account was blocked so she couldnt use the card, and she expected the account to be 
closed when it had a zero balance (which Im satisfied this is a fair expectation based on the 
card being of no use to her because of the block and 118 118 Moneys stance on this 
account), then Im persuaded a strict application of the monthly subscription fee after the 
balance had been paid off, with the block still remaining on the account led to an unfair 
outcome here based on Miss Cs individual situation here. It would be reasonable for them to 
refund this one fee. So it follows Ill be asking 118 118 Money to put things right for Miss C. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that 118 118 Money pays Miss C £25 to refund her last monthly 
subscription fee, and to close her account. As Miss C has confirmed to us the account is 
now closed, then I wont need them to close the account as our investigator suggested, but I 
think the £25 refund is still reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money should pay Miss 
C £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman