DRN-2666940
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy 
covered Mr K against accidents, sickness and unemployment and was cancelled in 2008. It 
initially covered an existing mortgage and Mr K and Mrs K took out in 1996.
Mr K and Mrs K say Santander didnt make it clear PPI was optional. They say they have no 
idea where or how the policy was taken out. They dont recall speaking to sales advisor 
about it or were given any information about it. They think Santander mis-sold the policy to 
them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr K and Mrs K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Mrs Ks case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mr K and Mrs K say they dont recall MPPI being sold to them and were not given any 
information about it. So, I have looked into this and considered whether Mr K and Mrs K 
had a choice to have the insurance.
There has been very little information available about this sale although this is 
understandable due to the sale being conducted well over 20 years ago. I have been 
able to see a welcome letter that would have been sent to Mr K and Mrs K. The welcome 
letter presents the MPPI policy as optional. The letter thanks them for choosing MPPI. In 
addition, Mr K and Mrs K added the MPPI policy several months after they arranged their 
mortgage so I think it would have been clear to them that it was a separate product that 
they were agreeing to. It would have been likely a conversation was had about the policy 
as they were applying for it separately to a mortgage application.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr K and Mrs K and Santander or where 
the policy was sold. Its also completely understandable that Mr K and Mrs Ks 
recollections are not detailed as the sale took place a number of years ago. And because 
of this and considering what I have seen in the welcome letter, I dont think the evidence 
is strong enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that PPI was an optional 
feature to them.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr K and Mrs 
K or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mr K. Santander have said it gave advice to them and I think 
on balance, the policy was suitable for Mr K as the sole policy holder.
I say this after considering Mr Ks circumstances at the time of sale. Because, although 
Mr K says he had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay he could have relied upon, 
the MPPI policy would have paid out if he was made unemployed or if he was sick in 
addition to his means. Having the policy in place would mean Mr K and Mrs K could use 
any provisions they may have had to cover other expenses. I dont think Mr Ks means at 
the time are sufficient for me reasonably to say that he wouldnt have had a need for the 
policy. 
Mr K was not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits. It is 
unlikely Mr K and Mrs K needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear information on these terms, I 
dont think it would have put them off.
 
I cant be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed in a clear way, but even if 
Santander did, I dont think Mr K and Mrs K would have done anything differently for the 
same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman