DRN-3672351
The complaint
Mr R complains about account fees which have been applied by Santander UK Plc and not 
paying him any cashback.  
What happened
Mr R holds a bank account with Santander and says they started charging an account fee 
when his account has always been free. And, he says theyve never made any cashback 
payments to him. Mr R complained and Santander explained the account fee is part of the 
terms and conditions and is something which wouldve been set out in a key facts document 
sent to Mr R when he first signed up to the account. Santander said theyre unsure why the 
account fee wasnt charged previously but Mr R has benefitted from this. Santander 
explained the reason Mr R wasnt receiving any cashback was because he hadnt been 
meeting the criteria.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr R and Santander on 1 August 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Rs current account. This says 
The fee for maintaining the account is £1 per month. A later revised version of the 
terms and conditions says the fee for maintaining the account changed to £2 per 
month from October 2020. Both terms and conditions say the monthly fee is taken to 
cover the previous month and The monthly fee will be taken every month from your 
account (including any months you do not qualify for cashback) and Once you 
have met the cashback criteria for the first time, you will begin to be charged the 
monthly fee.  
Santander say the terms and conditions allow them to charge a monthly fee 
regardless of whether the account holder meets the cashback criteria. Santander 
also say Mr R opened the account in December 2018 and shouldve always been 
charged the fee but theyre unsure why he wasnt charged this until December 2020. 
They say this means Mr Rs account was open for two years before he was charged 
and has therefore benefited by £27. I accept the terms and conditions do allow a 
monthly fee, but I dont agree Mr R has benefited by £27 over those two years. I say 
this because the terms and conditions, before and after October 2020, say the fee 
will only start to apply once Mr R has met the cashback criteria for the first time. And, 
from account and transaction information Ive seen, Mr R met the cashback criteria 
for the first time in January 2021  and I can see Santander arent disputing this. 
  
So, given Mr R first met the cashback criteria in January 2021, he shouldnt have 
been charged a fee until February 2021  as the fee covers the previous month. So, 
over the two years Mr R wasnt charged a fee, I dont believe a fee was due in any 
event. This also means Mr R has been charged a fee for December 2020 and 
January 2021 when one shouldnt have been due as he hadnt yet met the cashback 
criteria for the first time. So, Santander have charged Mr R a total of £4 unfairly. But, 
given that Mr R has now met the cashback criteria for the first time, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Santander to continue charging the monthly fee. 
I understand Mr R is also concerned about not receiving cashback from his account. 
The terms and conditions set out the criteria to qualify for cashback, and this includes 
paying in at least £500 a month and logging into their online banking at least once 
every three months. Santander dont dispute Mr R has met this. But, the criteria also 
includes setting up Direct Debits for specific products and the account and 
transaction information shows Mr R didnt do this until January 2021. And, cashback 
was therefore paid to Mr R the following month. So, given Mr R wasnt meeting the 
full criteria for cashback on the months when it wasnt paid, I dont think Santander 
have acted unreasonably.  
I understand Mr R queries what law or regulation permits Santander from breaching 
their own agreement and then look to apply those terms two years later. I hope Mr R 
will feel reassured with my reason on why he shouldnt have been charged the fee 
over those two years in any event. But, I dont think its fair to expect Santander to 
not apply a fee going forward. Theres no clause within the terms and conditions 
which suggests the account is free once the cashback criteria has been met. And, 
even if there has been an oversight by a business in not applying a fee for a period of 
time  when one shouldve been applied  I dont think that should automatically 
mean the business shouldnt apply the fee once they identify their oversight. While 
Mr R asks for any relevant legislation, I think the important and relevant information 
here is the terms and conditions  which allow Santander to charge a fee.  
So, subject to any further comments from Mr R or Santander, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.   
Following my provisional decision, Santander have responded to say they agree with my 
recommendations. Mr R has responded to say there was no requirement for a fee up to 
January 2021 but there was then no provision within the terms and conditions which allows 
Santander to charge a fee without notice to him. Mr R also says Santander cant prove they 
notified him of their fee increase from £1 to £2. Mr R feels Santander should now remove 
any fees and give him 30 days notice of any fees which apply to his account so this will give 
him time to decide if he wishes to remain with Santander. Mr R feels Santander should also 
pay compensation for the worry and anxiety caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
partly uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied 
above.
I wish to reassure Mr R that I have carefully considered the points he has raised but Ive 
addressed only those which I believe are relevant to my decision. I acknowledge Mr Rs 
point about giving him notice but I believe Santander have notified Mr R of their fees. 
Firstly, theres the original terms and conditions sent to Mr R when he opened his account 
which confirm a fee is payable. Then theres the updated terms and conditions which explain 
the fee increase. I note Mr R says Santander cant prove this was sent to him, but Santander 
have provided a copy of the updated terms and conditions sent to all customers  so I 
believe this was sent. In any event, I can see the terms and conditions relating to Mr Rs 
account are also available on Santanders website  so I think Santander have given notice 
of the fee increase. And, given that I believe Santander have given notice to Mr R, I dont think its fair in the circumstances to ask them to cancel all fees to date and provide 30 days 
notice of the fees they wish to apply on the account.   
I acknowledge Mr Rs request for compensation and I wish to reassure Mr R Ive carefully 
considered this. I think whats important here is to place Mr R back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred  and thats achieved by asking Santander to 
refund the £4 he has paid for December 2020 to January 2021. But, thats not to say it was 
unfair for Santander to claim the account fee beyond this point. I understand Mr R feels a fee 
isnt due, but Ive addressed why I believe it is. So, for about two years, no fee was charged 
so I cant say theres been any impact on Mr R. The two months he was incorrectly charged 
with be resolved by the refund. And, thats why Ive partly upheld the complaint. And, the 
fees beyond this point, have been correctly charged. Taking this all into account, I wont be 
asking Santander to pay compensation. I do acknowledge Mr R has strong feelings about 
Santander continuing to charge him but, given that he has met the criteria to be charged, I 
dont think its unfair for Santander to charge a fee. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Santander have unfairly charged Mr R £4 for account fees which 
werent due as he hadnt met the cashback criteria to begin charging him a fee until January 
2021. So, Santander should refund Mr R £4. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc must refund £4 to    
Mr R.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman