DRN-3421909
The complaint
Mr C complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis sold him a payment 
holiday plan instead of a COVID-19 payment deferral which resulted in his financial situation 
worsening.
What happened
Mr C took out a personal loan with M&S in March 2019. He called M&S in April 2020 when 
his income had been adversely impacted as a consequence of the effects of the global 
pandemic. He wanted to know what support M&S could offer him.
M&S said that they werent able to agree to a payment deferral under the FCAs special 
guidance due to payment arrears that already existed on his loan. So, they completed a 
review of Mr Cs income and expenditure to establish what he could afford to pay. Having 
calculated Mr Cs surplus income, they agreed a reduced payment plan of £65 per month for 
three months. Mr C needed to contact them again, at that time, to review his situation further 
and agree a way forward.
Mr C says that M&Ss actions resulted in his financial situation worsening which he found 
deeply distressing. He said hed been misinformed that hed been put on a COVID-19 plan 
but was later told this was not the case. He says he raised multiple complaints with M&S 
during various telephone calls to them between June and December 2020. But he says M&S 
failed to address those complaints and claimed they had no record or recordings of his calls 
to them. He says M&Ss actions, failings and mis selling of the plan resulted in marks being 
left on his credit file and them threatening to begin a default process. He thought they 
shouldve offered him a payment deferral under the FCAs special guidance instead.
M&S sent a written response to Mr C regarding his complaints in December 2020. They said 
that due to pre-existing arrears on Mr C loan in April 2020, they were unable to agree a 
payment deferral. They believed the proposal for a reduced payment plan was appropriate to 
his circumstances at the time. M&S said that theyd explained fully the implications of such a 
plan with regards to his credit file and any resulting arrears letters.
Mr C didnt agree with M&Ss findings. He thought they were deliberately withholding records 
of conversations and complaints hed raised and were challenging his own integrity and 
honesty. Mr C decided to refer his complaint to this service. He wanted M&S to:
acknowledge a failure to follow their complaints process; and
acknowledge the financial impact upon him; and
pay compensation covering interest, charges and inconvenience caused; and 
acknowledge and find recordings of calls he made between April 2020 and 
December 2020; and 
properly investigate his complaints and apologise for their mistakes.
Having investigated Mr Cs complaint, our adjudicator thought M&S had dealt with Mr Cs 
complaint fairly, so didnt need to do anything more. Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicators 
findings. He said that that call recordings of his complaints to M&S would reveal that he 
wasnt previously in arrears with payments as M&S were in error with a prior recent 
payment. He thought calls to M&S had been ignored and offered to provide full call dates 
and times for further investigation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applies in the exceptional circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus and its impact on the financial situation of customers. This guidance is not 
intended to have any relevance in circumstances other than those related to coronavirus. 
They added that where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing 
forbearance rules and guidancewould continue to apply. 
Where a COVID payment deferral isnt possible and M&S are aware of financial difficulties, I 
would expect them to consider offering alternative support and help. The rules and guidance 
relating to this are included in the FCAs handbook under CONC 7.3.
CONC 7.3.4 says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
CONC 7.3.5 goes on to say Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would 
include:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
(2)allowing deferment of payment of arrears
(3)accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock
M&S have provided a statement for Mr Cs loan with them. This shows that Mr Cs direct 
debit payment due at the end of July 2019 was returned unpaid. These arrears were cleared 
by November 2019. Further direct debits payments were then returned unpaid for November 
2019, February 2020 and March 2020. 
Mr C called M&S for support in April 2020 after the FCA had issued its special guidance. At 
this point Mr C was already three months in arrears with his loan repayments. So, I agree 
that he wouldnt have qualified for support under the FCAs guidance as those arrears pre-
existed the global pandemic and FCAs guidance.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Cs call to M&S in April 2020. Mr C acknowledged his loan 
was in arrears. He said they (payments) had fallen back a bit over the Christmas period. 
M&S clearly explained they couldnt use the FCAs payment deferral guidance because of 
this. But they offered to consider a reduced payment plan. Mr C admitted he would struggle 
to meet the normal repayments, let alone address the arrears. 
M&S completed an income and expenditure review with Mr C and agreed a reduced 
payment of £65 per month for three months, after which this would be reviewed again. They 
confirmed Mr Cs direct debit was already cancelled and he could make payments by debit 
card or set up a standing order. They told him the difference between the contractual 
repayment and the payment plan would still accrue as arrears and would impact his credit 
file. They also said he would receive statutory arrears notices as legally required. At the end 
of the call, Mr C confirmed That is lovelyIll pay by debit cardThats perfect.I believe M&S explained their actions and reasons fully and clearly to Mr C and the payment 
plan offered and agreed met the requirements of CONC 7.3.
Mr C suggested that arrears had resulted from a mistake made by M&S. I asked that he 
provide further specific details. But these havent been provided and I havent found anything 
to suggest that arears that occurred before April 2020 resulted from anything M&S did 
wrong.
Mr C says that hed raised complaints on several occasion with M&S between June and 
December 2020. Hes provided evidence of calls made to M&S over that period which he 
says relates to his complaints. Ive cross referenced these to M&Ss file notes. Unfortunately, 
it appears M&S dont have a full record of these calls. Neither have they been able to locate 
call recordings. 
Its important to acknowledge that M&S dont need to record or retain recordings of all calls 
received. This isnt a regulatory requirement. Furthermore, Mr Cs complaints reference the 
way that M&S did (or didnt) address his complaint(s). This service only has jurisdiction to 
consider complaints about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service regulated 
by the FCA. As complaint handling isnt a financial service activity regulated by the FCA, this 
service is unable to consider any complaint about M&Ss complaint handling.
I do appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed, but having considered all the information and 
evidence available, I cant reasonably conclude that M&S did anything wrong when they 
agreed the reduced payment plan for Mr C. They appear to have adhered to all necessary 
regulatory guidance. So, I shant be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman