DRN-2955772
The complaint
Ms P complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes being helped with her complaint by 
her partner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms P and to Blue Motor Finance on 5 July 
2021. In my provisional decision I described what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Ms P under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that she electronically signed in April 2019. She returned the car to the 
dealer a few days later because of an issue with the cars air-conditioning  which 
was rectified. She complained to the dealer in October 2019 about an issue with the 
cars gears and a noise. She then took the car to a transmission specialist and paid 
£180 for a diagnosis  but no fault was found with the gears and an engine fault was 
suspected. 
She then complained to Blue Motor Finance about the car. It said that if the engine 
had been faulty when the car was supplied to her, she wouldnt have been able to 
drive it for 11,000 miles with no issues  so it didnt uphold her compliant. Ms P 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. A statutory off-road 
notification about the car was made between December 2019 and July 2020 and in 
July 2020 a garage diagnosed an issue with the cars exhaust gas recirculation valve 
 which it replaced. It also changed some gaskets and the coolant. The total cost of 
the work was £597.24 which was paid for by a warranty that Ms P had bought.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale and she 
recommended that Blue Motor Finance should: end the agreement and collect the 
car; remove any adverse information from Ms Ps credit file in relation to the 
agreement; refund Ms Ps deposit and 20% of the monthly payments under the 
agreement to reflect the impaired use of the car; refund the £180 shed paid for 
diagnostics; pay her £200 for any trouble and upset caused; and pay interest on all 
refunded amounts.
Blue Motor Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that an exhaust gas recirculation valve, coolant and gaskets 
would all be considered normal in-service maintenance and that Ms P was able to 
drive 11,000 miles in the car in less than six months - which is greater than average 
mileage and couldnt have been achieved if the car was faulty at the point of sale.
Ms P says that theres no evidence of the exhaust gas recirculation valve being 
cleaned at around 50,000 miles (as recommended by her mechanic) and that it 
shouldnt have needed to be replaced after shed driven the car for 11,000 miles so it 
was a pre-existing fault due to poor or no maintenance.
In my provisional decision, I set out my provisional findings as follows:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable 
and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also 
depend on a number of factors.
The car that was supplied to Ms P was about eight years old, had been driven for 
60,997 miles and had a price of £7,995. She returned the car to the dealer a few 
days after the car was supplied to her because of an issue with the cars air-
conditioning  which was rectified by the dealer  and it seems that she was then 
able to use the car until October 2019 without any further issues.
She complained to the dealer about an issue with the cars gears and a noise from 
the car in October 2019. She then took the car to a transmission specialist and paid 
£180 for a diagnosis  but no fault was found with the gears and an engine fault was 
suspected. She complained to Blue Motor Finance and provided evidence showing 
that the cars mileage at that time was 71,066. So, in the six months after the car was 
supplied to her, shed been able to drive more than 10,000 miles in the car.
Ms P made a statutory off road notification about the car from December 2019 to July 
2020. She paid for a warranty on the car and arranged for the car to be repaired by 
another garage in July 2020. The cars mileage at that time was 72,223 so shed 
been able to use the car to drive another 1,157 miles since October 2019. The 
garage diagnosed an issue with the cars exhaust gas recirculation valve  which it 
replaced. It also changed some gaskets and the coolant. The total cost of the work 
was £597.24 which the garage says was paid for by the warranty.
Its my understanding the car is now repaired and that Ms P has been using it. The 
car passed an MOT test in July 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 73,780 and 
its due another MOT test this month. In the two weeks between the repair and the 
MOT test shed been able to drive another 1,557 miles in the car.
Ive carefully considered what Ms P has said about the exhaust gas recirculation 
valve but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there was a 
fault present or developing with it when the car was supplied to her or that it hadnt 
been maintained properly.
Ms P was able to drive more than 10,000 miles in the six months after the car was 
supplied to her and I dont consider that shed have been able to do so if the exhaust 
gas recirculation valve had been faulty when the car was supplied to her. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at that time. The exhaust gas recirculation valve has been replaced and, when 
the car passed an MOT test in July 2020, its mileage was 73,780 (12,783 miles more 
than when the car was supplied to her).
I sympathise with Ms P for the issues that shes had with the car but I dont consider 
that it would be fair or reasobsle in these circumstances for me to require Blue Motor 
Finance to allow Ms P to reject the car, to reimburse her for any of the monthly 
payments that shes made under the agreement or any of the costs that shes 
incurred, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.So, subject to any further representations by Ms P or Blue Motor Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. Ms P says that my provisional 
decision fails to acknowledge that Blue Motor Finance had arranged for the car to be 
collected and returned but that it then changed its mind. Shes provided an e-mail from the 
collection company as evidence that the car was due to be collected but that the collection 
was then cancelled. She says that Blue Motor Finance accepted that it had a duty to take 
responsibility for the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. The fact 
that a collection of the car from Ms P had been arranged but was then cancelled isnt 
enough to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms P or 
that Blue Motor Finance is responsible for the issues with the car.
Since my provisional decision the car has had two MOT tests. It initially failed an MOT test in 
July 2021 but the reasons for that arent related to its gears or the exhaust gas recirculation 
valve. The issues that had caused the test failure when then addressed and the car passed 
an MOT test later the same day when its mileage was recorded as 86,339. So between July 
2020 and July 2021 the car had been driven for 12,559 miles. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Ms P and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require Blue Motor Finance to allow her to reject the car, to 
reimburse her for any of the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement or any 
of the costs that shes incurred, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman