DRN-1666429
The complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of T, a limited company of which he's a director. He's unhappy that 
Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard Payment Solutions) terminated its merchant 
acquiring services agreement with T and wouldn't collect a pre-authorised payment.
What happened
T is a car hire company. It owns some cars and leases others from third parties that it then 
rents out to individual hirers. When setting up payment facilities with Barclays, Mr B told its 
representative the nature of the business, although the call handler didn't specifically 
enquire whether T owned all the vehicles that it rented out.
Mr B told Barclays that the expected annual card turnover would be about £90,000 and that 
most transactions would be for around £1,000 to £1,500. In December 2019, T processed a 
pre-authorisation transaction for £25,000. This flagged up on Barclays' systems, given the 
unexpected size of the payment. Barclays contacted Mr B and upon learning that T didn't 
own all the vehicles that it was hiring out, it made a commercial decision to terminate its 
agreement with T, the business not being of a type it was prepared to service.
Mr B complained to Barclays. He said he told the agent about what T did when he set up the 
account. Barclays accepted that it should have asked him some more questions at the time. 
It apologised and said it would be providing feedback to its call-handler. It offered to refund 
T's £150 application fee. But it wouldn't reinstate its agreement with T nor would it process 
the £25,000 transaction - as it said it had acted in accordance with the terms of its 
agreement.
Mr B was unhappy with this and so brought T's complaint to this service. Our investigator 
thought his complaint should be upheld in part. She said that Barclays was within its rights to 
terminate the agreement and not process the transaction. But T had been caused trouble 
and inconvenience, as well as a loss of reputation, as a result of Barclays providing T with 
merchant services that, under its own rules, it shouldn't have offered in the first place. For 
this she thought Barclays should pay T £250 compensation.
Mr B wasn't happy with this, as he still feels that T is out-of-pocket as a result of Barclays' 
failure to process the transaction. And he doesn't consider the compensation is sufficient. 
Barclays doesn't think that it should have to compensate T for any loss of reputation, 
because of a clause excluding liability in its terms and conditions. But it has offered to pay T 
£150 for the inconvenience caused to it, as well as refunding the £150 application fee. So 
the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to uphold this complaint in part, for substantially the same reasons as our 
investigator. I'll explain why.I've considered the terms of the merchant acquiring services agreement between Barclays 
and T. And it does allow Barclays to terminate the agreement in the circumstances of this 
complaint. But Barclays should never have provided these services to T in the first place. 
The series of events happened here, not because Mr B didn't tell Barclays what T's business 
was, but because Barclays' call handler didn't ask Mr B further questions that it needed to 
know about it.
I understand why Barclays no longer wished to provide its services to T, but this has led to 
T being put to the trouble of having to find a new payment services provider, and the 
inconvenience of seeking an alternative form of payment from its customer. There has also 
been an inevitable loss of reputation with that customer. And T has been without the ability 
to take card payments for some time now.
Whilst Barclays correctly points out that its terms and conditions seek to exclude any liability 
for loss of reputation, the problem here resulted from the actions of its agent when setting up 
the account incorrectly.
I appreciate that T also bears some responsibility here, as Mr B processed a transaction for 
a sum way in excess of what he'd said was anticipated. And I don't think that Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to complete that transaction. As I understand it, 
the transaction was in any event a pre-authorisation, part of which was to cover T for any 
loss or damage to the high-end vehicle it had hired out. I'm told that, luckily, no loss or 
damage ever materialised and so the pre-authorisation would not have needed to be 
processed in full in any event. But T has still had the inconvenience of arranging alternative 
payment for the hire.
So, I've found that T has been inconvenienced and that this all stemmed from the failure of 
Barclays' agent when the account was first set up. Despite the exclusion of liability in the 
agreement, I find that in the circumstances of this complaint, it's not fair or reasonable for 
Barclays to rely on that clause to avoid making, what is any event, a small gesture by way of 
compensation to recognise the loss of reputation involved here.
Putting things right
I've decided to award the same £250 sum of compensation that our investigator 
recommended. And this is to be paid in addition to the refund of the £150 application fee. I 
think this is the correct amount taking into account the actions of Barclays that led to this 
situation but also allowing for the fact that T contributed to the problem by trying to process a 
transaction for a significantly higher amount than Barclays would have been expecting. 
My final decision
It's my final decision to uphold this complaint in part against Barclays Bank Plc. I require that 
it pay £250 compensation to T and, if it has not already, that it refunds the £150 application 
fee as well.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman