DRN-1993205
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy after her car was written-off in an accident.  
What happened
Mrs C didnt think One Insurances offer of £2,200 for the car was enough. It had deducted 
£400 for pre-accident damage from its initial valuation, plus a further £390 for the cars very 
high mileage. Mrs C pointed out that One Insurances engineer had made an error in 
recording the wrong mileage. Mrs C also said she should have been given a hire car, under 
the enhanced policy cover shed bought. And she thought One Insurance had provided poor 
service by not engaging with her about the issues shed raised.
One Insurance checked with its engineer about the cars valuation, but it didnt increase its 
offer. It accepted that Mrs C should have been offered a hire car for 14 days and offered her 
£10 a day compensation for that. It also accepted that its overall service had been below 
standard and offered Mrs C £150 compensation for inconvenience. 
As Mrs C remined unhappy about the valuation, she complained to this service. One of our 
investigators thought One Insurance had initially valued Mrs Cs car correctly at £2,990. He 
said the deduction for high mileage was wrong, and One Insurance accepted that an error 
had been made. He also thought it had deducted too much for the cars pre-existing 
damage. In his opinion, it should have offered Mrs C £2,790 for the car. The investigator 
thought One Insurance had offered Mrs C fair compensation for the lack of a hire car, but 
that it should offer her £50 more for inconvenience. 
Mrs C accepted the investigators findings, but as One Insurance didnt comment, the 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We check whether an insurers offer for a car is reasonable by looking at the valuations in 
the national trade guides. I think One Insurances engineer arrived at a fair valuation initially, 
in line with the guides. But as it has accepted, he deducted £390 for high mileage in error.
 
We think its reasonable for a deduction for pre-existing damage to be made where its likely 
to have affected the cars market value prior to the accident. In general, we think its fair to 
deduct half the likely cost of repairing that damage. So in this case, I think a deduction of 
£200 by One Insurance would have been fair. 
I think the sum payable by One Insurance to Mrs C for her car should be £2,790. It didnt 
offer her an interim payment, so I think its reasonable for it to pay Mrs C interest on the 
£2,790 from a week after the settlement offer was made in November 2019.
In my opinion, One Insurances offer of £10 per day for not providing Mrs C with a hire car 
was reasonable, and in line with the sum wed have proposed. One Insurance also offered 
Mrs C £150 compensation for its poor service. I think that was reasonable, but it didnt take 
into account the engineers error with the mileage. I think it would be fair to increase the sum 
for distress and inconvenience by £50 to £200 in total to reflect the effect of One Insurances 
poor service on Mrs C.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay 
her £140 for the loss of use of the hire car (as already agreed). It should also pay her £2,790 
for her car, plus interest on that sum from 8 November 2019 to the date of settlement, at the 
simple yearly rate of 8%. In addition, One Insurance should pay Mrs C £200 in total 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman