DRN-3710450
The complaint
Mr G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) caused excessive delays in dealing with 
his mortgage application which resulted in him paying extra interest costs on a bridging loan.
What happened
Mr G says he had a mortgage approved by Barclays in March 2021, which was in part to 
repay a bridging loan he had taken out for a new build property. Mr G says Barclays failed to 
respond to communications raised by its legal representatives, which in turn caused a long 
delay in drawing his mortgage and as a result he incurred excessive extra interest on a 
bridging loan. 
Mr G wants Barclays to refund the additional interest he incurred on his bridging loan, given 
the delays Barclays caused over a period approaching two months. 
Barclays says the delays were caused by Mr Gs solicitor not processing the information it 
had sent. Barclays did accept there was some poor customer service and offered Mr G £125 
by way of compensation. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Gs complaint. The 
investigator felt from the information he had seen, Barclays hadnt provided the solicitor with 
a confirmation to proceed and this was the primary cause of the delay. In the circumstances 
the investigator felt Barclays in addition to the £125 for the inconvenience caused, should 
pay Mr G a refund of the interest charged to his bridging loan for the period 27 May 2021 to 
6 July 2021, totalling £1,257.60. 
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I uphold this complaint I have a slightly different proposal to the level 
of redress offered to Mr G. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr G to experience delays in repaying his 
high cost bridging loan, through no fault of his own. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays could have done more to ensure the 
mortgage it had agreed was drawn down in a timely manner. 
Mr Gs complaint centres around the fact Barclays failed to respond promptly to 
communications to the solicitor acting, which resulted in unnecessary delays in drawing 
down his mortgage and repaying the bridging loan he had taken, in part, towards his new 
build property. Mr G says Barclays were made aware he had a bridging loan from the start of 
the mortgage agreement, in March 2021. 
Its fair to say Barclays were aware of the purpose of Mr Gs mortgage that it was in part, to 
clear a bridging loan he had taken out towards a new build, which has been accepted by 
them, so its reasonable to say a degree of urgency was expected by Mr G here, given the 
cost of that bridging loan. 
While I cant expect Barclays to have to agree to a deadline in these circumstances, as it 
would be reliant on its legal advisors to perfect its security, what I would expect, knowing a 
completion was required, would be for it to ensure all communications were dealt with 
promptly, but Im not convinced that happened here.
I say this because Barclays provided an email to this service on 3 May 2022, with a detailed 
timeline of events. In that timeline it highlights on a number of occasions, responses werent 
sent even though its own internal department had asked for this to be done. In particular 
Barclays should have communicated it was happy to proceed with the mortgage, on 27 May 
2021 to the solicitor, but by its own admission this communication wasnt sent. The timeline 
suggests this wasnt carried out until the end of June 2021 and that other case notes had 
also not been read by Barclays staff. 
With that in mind, although Barclays says it couldnt go ahead until it have received a 
Certificate of Title and that wasnt received until much later, I am satisfied this was a direct 
result of Barclays not communicating properly with the solicitor here. 
So, like the investigator I agree Barclays could have done more to ensure the completion of 
the mortgage much sooner. Where I disagree slightly with the investigator, is with the 
amount of interest to be refunded. Although the mortgage in all probability could have been 
drawn in late May 2021 as the investigator suggests, rather than the actual completion date 
of 6 July 2021, I need to take into account Mr G would have paid interest on his mortgage, 
representing the amount of the  bridging loan outstanding during this time.
So, I propose Barclays reimburse Mr G the extra bridging loan interest he incurred, at the 
rate of £31.44 per day for 40 days, less the interest Mr G would have paid on the equivalent 
balance of his bridging loan, at his Barclays mortgage rate for the same period. Mr G should 
provide the investigator, with a statement of his bridging loan for the period covering 27 May 
2021 to 6 July 2021, to pass onto Barclays to aid its calculations. 
Barclays have offered Mr G £125 for the inconvenience caused and I am satisfied this is 
sufficient as I wouldnt expect Barclays to cover Mr Gs time here, only that it accepts it has 
made a mistake and apologises for that. So, I propose Barclays pay £125 in addition to the 
interest detailed above. 
While neither Barclays nor Mr G may be disappointed with my decision, but I am satisfied 
this is a fair outcome. 
I gave both Mr G and Barclays until 30 September 2022, to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. 
Both Barclays and Mr G have accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided this service with some information regarding his bridging loan to assist 
Barclays in its calculations and I would ask the investigator to provide this to them. To be 
clear Barclays need to calculate the amount of interest Mr G would have paid, at his 
Barclays mortgage interest rate, based on the balance of his bridging loan sum, for 40 days 
and pay Mr G the difference between that amount and £1,257.60, which was the amount of 
interest he paid on his bridging loan for the same period. 
Barclays should also pay Mr G the £125 it previously offered for the trouble and upset it 
caused. 
With that in mind I see no reason to change or alter my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remain the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to reimburse Mr G the extra bridging loan interest he 
incurred, at the rate of £31.44 per day for 40 days, less the interest Mr G would have paid on 
the equivalent balance of his bridging loan, at his Barclays mortgage rate for the same 
period.
In addition, Barclays should pay Mr G the £125 it previously offered, by way of compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to reimburse Mr G the extra bridging loan interest he 
incurred, at the rate of £31.44 per day for 40 days, less the interest Mr G would have paid on 
the equivalent balance of his bridging loan, at his Barclays mortgage rate for the same 
period.
In addition, Barclays should pay Mr G the £125 it previously offered, by way of compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman