DRN-4158636
The complaint
Miss G complains about charges when she returned her car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
In December 2019 Miss G acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement was for 24 months with monthly repayments of £357.56.
On 9 September 2022 the car was collected. Following this, a detailed inspection was done 
and MBFS then told Miss G she owed £810 for damage to the car. The damage was broken 
down as follows:
Wheel left front - spoke damaged £110
Wheel left rear- spoke damaged £110
Wheel right front - rim damaged £110
Wheel right rear - rim damaged £110
Left wing mirror housing - scratched £70
Bumper  scratched £210
Quarter panel left rear  dent £90
Total £810
Miss G was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. She said that on the day the car 
was collected, the representative looked at the car and inspected it for damage. He told her 
that except for the alloy wheels there was no other damage. She said he also told her that 
she should speak to MBFS because her mileage was lower than that permitted to be used 
under the agreement, and they might give her some money back. And, she said shed had 
the car cleaned so shouldnt be charged for this.
MBFS issued its final response on 10th October 2022. It said, in summary, that it was 
satisfied all of the charges had been applied correctly. It said all of the damage could be 
seen in the first inspection. It said the lower mileage wouldnt be offset against the damage. 
And it said Miss G had not been charged for a valet because the car was clean.
Miss G remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service
Our investigator issued an opinion explaining that she thought the complaint should be 
upheld in part. She said, in summary, that some of the damage fell outside of fair wear and 
tear, so those charges had been fairly applied. But in her opinion there were six items that it 
was not fair to charge. She said these were fair wear and tear, so she said that MBFS 
should remove the charges for those. 
MBFS responded. It said the two items of damage which our investigator had asked it to 
remove had not been charged to start with. And in relation to the other four, it set out where 
these items were shown in the original inspection report. In addition, it provided 
measurements. And it also stated - in the video of the car taken on the day the car was 
collected  the exact times on the video showing damage to the mirror housing and quarter 
panel.
Our investigator issued a second opinion explaining she had taken a closer look at the 
evidence and now thought the complaint should not be upheld. She was now satisfied that 
all the charges raised by MBFS related to areas of damage that fell outside of fair wear and 
tear. So she was satisfied that all the damage charges had been fairly applied. She also 
noted that at the initial inspection in relation to areas of the car, the paperwork stated; to be 
advised and to be confirmed.
Miss G responded to the investigators second opinion and told us she disagreed. She 
reiterated the representative who collected the car told her there was no damage except the 
alloy wheels. She said she did not understand why the investigators decision had been 
changed. She did say she accepted the damage to the wing mirror and the alloy wheels.
Miss G remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss G and MBFS a provisional decision on 23 March 2023. My findings from this
decision were as follows:
Miss G complains about a hire agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit contract 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Miss Gs complaint against 
MBFS.
Ive firstly considered whether MBFS could charge Miss G for the damage to the car. In the 
terms and conditions she agreed to, it says
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
So, I think Miss G agreed to return the car in line with the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) 
and agreed to pay MBFS if it wasnt.
In terms of the damage present on the car, Miss G has told us that she accepts responsibility 
for the damage to the alloy wheels and the wing mirror casing. So in those circumstances, 
what I mainly need to look at in this decision is the damage to the quarter panel and bumper.
Ive also taken into account the guidance on fair wear and tear from the British Vehicle and 
Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA). I believe MBFS are not members of the BVRLA. But, 
Im satisfied this is a useful industry standard to assess damage.
Miss G has told us she doesnt accept the quarter panel dent and bumper scratch. But 
having carefully considered these items, I think they are outside fair wear and tear. 
On bumper scratches the BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable, provided they can be polished out.
And the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your 
vehicle
Having reviewed the photos of the damage, Im satisfied in this case the scratch to the front 
bumper was over 50 mm. Its also very obvious and Im satisfied it affects the overall appearance of the car. So, Im satisfied it falls outside of fear wear and tear for both the VRS 
and BVRLA guidance.
In relation to dents to panels the BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
The VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minor body dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a) They are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
Having looked at the photos provided, the quarter panel dent was longer than 15 mm. So Im 
satisfied that this area falls outside the definition of fair wear and tear for both the VRS and 
BVRLA guidance.
In addition, looking at the video of the car from the day was collected, the dent on the quarter 
panel is visible in two shots. In my view, this is strong evidence. And it makes me think that 
its likely that this is the dent subsequently identified by MBFS on 14th September. This 
shows how damage might be missed by a person on the day of collection, but is then 
confirmed later, under better lighting and with more time. The scratches on the mirror casing 
and wheels are also visible; and as Ive already said Miss G has told us she accepts 
responsibility for these.
Miss G has also told us that she thought the level of the charges was excessive for the 
damage that wasnt brought to her attention. But these charges are in line with what MBFS 
set out for her when her hire agreement started. In addition, MBFS sent Miss G a copy of the 
VRS six months before her agreement ended.
Miss G also told us that she was unhappy that MBFS didnt provide a refund when she 
returned the car with mileage which was lower than she was allowed under the hire 
agreement. So Ive considered the terms of the hire agreement. It doesnt include a term that 
Miss G would get anything back if the car was returned with the lower mileage. 
Miss G has told us that the representative who collected the car said to her that there was no 
damage, except for the alloys. Again, Miss G is unhappy that the representative raised this 
as a possibility. Miss G doesnt think that the representative should have said that to her. Its 
clear that she took this statement to heart, and she may have hoped that the charges would 
be lower than what MBFS finally invoiced.
But I dont think I need to make a finding about what happened here. Thats because, even if 
I accept what Miss G says, while this may be an example of poor service it doesnt change 
my conclusion that Im satisfied the damage was present and MBFS can charge Miss G for 
it. So, whatever happened, this doesnt change my opinion. Overall, having looked at all the 
available evidence, I dont think MBFS did anything wrong in the charges or its answer 
regarding the mileage. So I dont intend to say this complaint should be upheld.
I gave both parties four weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. MBFS 
didnt have any further comments. Miss G wrote to us and told us she disagreed with the 
provisional decision and provided comments. She told us that she felt she had been misled 
in making her complaint to us. And she told us that she was concerned that in my provisional 
decision I had not taken into account that the investigator had firstly recommended a lower 
amount was payable, and then changed her mind, following MBFS providing information to 
us. So she told us she was concerned that the investigator changed her mind between her 
first opinion and the second.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all of the information about this complaint again. In relation to what Miss G 
has said in response to my provisional decision, I can assure Miss G that that I considered 
both the investigators opinions. As part of the process of looking into Miss Gs complaint we 
asked both Miss G and MBFS for information and/or comments; there is nothing unusual in 
that, its a normal part of investigating complaints. It is correct that MBFS had never charged 
her for two items of damage. They didnt form part of the amount due on her final invoice. So 
it isnt possible to reduce the amount she owes by those two items, when she was never 
charged for those items in the first place. And in relation to the other items, Im satisfied they 
fall outside fair wear and tear. So having reconsidered the complaint, I still think it shouldnt 
be upheld. This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set 
out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman