DRN-4427050
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer Wakam regarding repairs it carried out to his car 
after he was involved in an accident.
What happened
Mr Hs policy with Wakam includes cover for him to use his car for business purposes. Mr H 
had an accident and Wakam repaired his car. Wakams garage returned Mr Hs car to him 
on 13 January 2023. In February 2023 Mr H contacted Wakam because he didnt think the 
front bumper was properly aligned, and hed noted a coolant leak. He thought the bumper 
hadnt been repaired properly and the leak had likely been caused in the accident but never 
repaired. Wakams garage took the car back. The bumper was re-aligned. An engineer 
considered the coolant leak and felt it was unlikely to have been caused by the accident. The 
car was returned to Mr H.
Once Mr H had the car back, on 3 March 2023, he noted electrical issues, particularly that 
the cars heaters were staying on even when the ignition was switched off, which was 
draining the battery. He contacted Wakam but it didnt believe it was responsible for these 
further issues. It said though that Mr H could obtain a diagnostic report for it to consider.
Mr H was unhappy. He said he wanted loss of earnings and compensation, plus 
reimbursement of a £95 report fee, all associated with the February repair. He still felt it was 
liable for the coolant issue, but hed had that fixed so told Wakam he expected 
reimbursement. And he thought Wakam should also have agreed to look into the electrical 
issues  which had since caused the car to breakdown, causing him further costs and 
inconvenience. Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt Wakam had responded reasonably regarding the coolant and electrical 
issues. But he felt Mr H had likely been caused some inconvenience regarding the bodywork 
 the repair of which should have been completed to a good standard before the car was 
returned to Mr H in January 2023. So he felt it should pay £150 compensation. However, he 
noted the car was away with the garage in February 2023 to allow it to assess the coolant 
issue too, the coolant and alignment issues featuring on the report Mr H had paid £95 for. So 
he wasnt minded to suggest Wakam pay anything more to Mr H. 
Mr H said he felt the outstanding repairs were the responsibility of Wakam. He said he 
thought it should cover his lost earnings too. Our Investigator confirmed his view that 
Wakams request for a diagnostic check was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H feels Wakams garage did poor work, and that hes suffered cost and 
inconvenience as a result. Certainly, regarding the bodywork not being aligned the garage 
did poor work. Mr H has provided photos which show the bumper wasnt aligned properly. 
He also provided a report from the garage which referenced that. The garage accepted there 
had been a failure and the car went back to it for repair, which took around an hour. To have 
to take the car back to the garage and be without it for about half a day would have been 
inconvenient for Mr H. I think £150 compensation reasonably makes up for that. So Im going 
to require Wakam to pay it.
Considering Mr Hs job  food delivery driver  I dont think that the car being away for half a 
day would have materially affected his income. Nor do I think the report was influential in the 
garage accepting the alignment issues  the photos were most persuasive in that respect. 
Further the car was away with the garage for much longer on account of, with also the main 
commentary on the report being about, the coolant leak. So only if I find Wakan is 
responsible for the coolant leak would I look to make it compensate Mr H for lost earnings 
and reimburse his report costs.
The garage investigated the leak and Wakam sent an engineer to consider what had been 
found. That caused the car to be away from Mr H for about a week. The report Mr H 
presented from his garage said: Customer complains of coolant leak. Following an accident 
repair by Insurance. Did a UV die test and found leaks from both the heater outer pipes. 
Strongly believe that the leak is due to the impact of the accident.
That comment was made, as I understand it, by the mechanic who had assessed Mr Hs car 
in February 2023. It is an expert report and carries some weight.
I must bear in mind though that Wakam had a motor engineer consider the car. A report from 
an engineer would generally be seen to hold more weight than that of a mechanic. Simply 
put, they are more qualified. 
To reach a fair decision though, I need to also consider what the engineer said. His report 
comments: I have inspected the underside of the vehicle and the location of the leak in 
relation to the repair process and the incident area. It is my opinion that the leak is not 
related to either factor. The leak is from two hoses coming out of the bulk head at the rear of 
the engine bay area, there is no evidence of damage sustained from any objects that would 
be in the area or around the hoses that would have caused the leaks. The hoses feed the 
heater matrix for the inner cabin area. I have reviewed the incident circumstances and can 
advise in my opinion that there was not enough force generated in the impact that would 
have had a bearing on the two hoses in question..In conclusion on this fault it is my 
opinion that there is no liability to the repairer, third party or the repair process in relation to 
this fault.
On this occasion I find his comments to be the most persuasive. Mr Hs mechanic strongly 
believes the leak is linked to the accident. But gives no reasoning as to why that is. It cant 
be safely determined from his comments that he was even aware of the nature of the 
accident or the location of the impact. Both of which are important, I think, in considering 
whether the coolant leak was caused during the accident. And the engineer has explained 
why he thinks that is unlikely. 
I also bear in mind that Mr H had had the car back for a while before notifying Wakam of a 
problem. Id have though, had this coolant leak been present from the point of the accident, 
and gone unrepaired, it would have been apparent as soon as Mr H took the car back.  
Overall Im not persuaded that the coolant leak was caused during the accident. So I wont 
be requiring Wakam to compensate Mr H for his lost earnings or reimburse his report cost. 
Or for the cost of repairing the coolant leak.After the re-work and investigations the car was returned to Mr H. About a week later, Mr H 
having had the coolant leak fixed, called Wakam to advise hed noted electrical issues with 
the car. He noted the cars internal heaters were staying on when the ignition was switched 
off. He thought the garage had likely done something to cause that. Wakam said it didnt 
think that was likely  its engineer had inspected the car after the bodywork was re-aligned 
and hadnt noted any electrical issues. Wakam said Mr H could get a diagnostic report from 
a manufacturer garage if he wanted it to consider the issue further. I know Mr H didnt think 
that was fair, but given the engineer had confirmed that the car had been fine after Wakams 
garage worked on the car, before it was returned to Mr H, I think that was a reasonable 
response from Wakam. 
I know Mr H later broke down because of the heaters draining the battery  but he knew 
there was an issue, which Wakam had responded to reasonably and which he hadnt fixed. 
I cant reasonably blame Wakam for the car breaking down. If Mr H wants to pursue Wakam 
regarding the electrical issues he will need to obtain a diagnostic report. I note his garage 
offered an opinion on the issue  but I think, at this stage, Wakam asking for a formal 
diagnostic is reasonable. Im not going to make Wakam do anything to reimburse or 
compensate Mr H in respect of the electrical issues or the problems they caused. 
 
Putting things right
I require Wakam to pay Mr H £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Wakam to provide the redress set out above at Putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman