DRN-3274644
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty and then closed her 
account and registered a default against her without notifying her about this.
What happened
Miss B complained to Lloyds that the fees applied to her account caused her financial 
difficulty and that it closed her account and applied a default to her credit file. Lloyds said all 
charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It says it assisted 
Miss B when she contacted it in 2018 by refunding fees, offering her a repayment plan and 
placing a stop on her account for 30 days. 
Following this Miss B went over her overdraft limit of £750 in August 2018 and didnt respond 
to Lloyds communications about this, so it sent a formal demand notice in October 2018 and 
closed the account in December 2018 with a balance owing of £788.35. It says within the 
letters sent to Miss B it explained the consequences of what would happen if she didnt get 
in touch with it  including the possibility of negative information being recorded on her credit 
file.
Miss B was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have stopped charging overdraft 
fees from 26 May 2016 as by this point it was clear Miss B was in financial difficulty and 
hadnt seen a credit balance in a significant period of time. 
Lloyds agreed to make an offer in-line with our adjudicators view. It said that it would:
Re-work Miss Bs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from 26 May 2016 onwards are removed.
Any refund, if one is payable will be returned with 8% simple interest, minus tax, from 
the date the debt was repaid on 11 November 2019.
That the default will be backdated as though this action commenced on 26 May 2016 
which means it would back date this information to 26 September 2016 and the 
default would be recorded until September 2022. 
Miss B didnt accept the offer - she feels the offer doesnt make up for the stress the situation 
caused her and the account only got into the position it was because of the fees Lloyds 
charged. She says she never received any sort of notice from Lloyds about closing her 
account and wants the default removed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. 
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that by 26 May 2016 Lloyds 
shouldve done more for Miss B as by this point it ought to have been apparent that Miss B 
was in financial difficulty  a cursory look at her bank statements showed she hadnt 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time, she had exceeded her overdraft 
limit on more than one occasion and her income had all but disappeared. 
Lloyds have told us that Miss B wouldve still been left with an outstanding debt, once all 
adjustments had been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft from 26 May 2016 and that as her account wouldve still been 
closed with an outstanding balance the default recorded is valid. 
So while Miss B has been left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has 
done what Id normally expect it to do here. What Miss B was left with to repay are the funds 
which she used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges left 
her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with.
And I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in closing her account and registering a default 
when she didnt repay back the outstanding balance of her overdraft in the required time.  As 
prior to this happening I can see that Lloyds sent numerous letters to the address it had 
registered for Miss B notifying her that her account was in arrears and what was to happen 
to her account. Failing a response from Miss B a formal demand notice was sent and her 
account was closed two months later in December 2018.
So Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to make the decision to close Miss Bs account as it gave 
Miss B plenty notice of what was to happen if she didnt take appropriate action. I 
understand that Miss B is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit report, but
Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss B to decide whether she 
wishes to now accept Lloydss offer. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman