DRN-3210122
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains about what Lockton Companies LLP did after it reported a 
claim on its professional indemnity insurance policy. S is represented by one of its directors, 
Mr K. 
What happened
S holds professional indemnity insurance arranged through its broker, Locktons. On 9 May 
2017 Mr K contacted Locktons, and let it know about a potential claim. Locktons asked for 
more information on this which was provider later that month. It told Ss insurer about this 
and passed on a request from the insurer for further information. Following that it chased the 
loss assessor S had by then appointed for this information. 
In mid-June the loss assessor asked Locktons whether there was cover under the policy for 
the cost of rectification works. Locktons said the insurer hadnt confirmed cover as it was 
waiting for the information it had asked for. But it reviewed the policy wording and said this 
could potentially cover the cost of rectification work as long as the insurer gave written 
consent before the work begins. Locktons said if S could provide the outstanding 
information it could seek approval for this. 
Locktons continued to chase the loss assessor for the requested information and helped 
arrange a meeting between representatives of S and the insurer at the end of August. At that 
it was agreed there could be direct contact between the insurer and S. There were then 
difficulties in S providing further information requested by the insurer because a staff 
member left and Locktons liaised with the insurer about this. A site visit was subsequently 
arranged. After that had taken place Locktons continued to liaise with the insurer and S and 
flagged the importance of providing the requested information (given the policy requirements 
on co-operation). 
The insurer turned down the claim S had made in May 2018. I considered a separate 
complaint against the insurer and concluded it had acted fairly because S had completed the 
rectification works it was now claiming for without obtaining consent for these and I was 
satisfied that had prejudiced the insurers position.  
Mr K said hed contacted Locktons as soon as he realised there was a problem and didnt 
believe it had told the insurer about this issue in a timely way. And he didnt think Locktons 
had advised or represented S correctly. 
Our investigator didnt think Locktons had done anything wrong. She didnt think there had 
been any delay in Locktons contacting the insurer and thought it had been proactive in 
taking action following on from that. And she noted it had advised S (through its loss 
assessor) in June that rectification work was subject to the insurers prior consent.
 
Mr K didnt agree. He said Locktons had been told about what S was planning to do and it 
agreed to this and didnt ask S to delay the remedial works. And S wasnt aware of what the 
costs of the claim would be in May 2017 so couldnt have provided information on that at the 
time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K first contacted us there appeared to be some dispute about when he first 
contacted Locktons about this matter. And he queried whether minutes of a subsequent 
meeting referencing this could be relied on. But in a later email to the investigator he 
appears to have agreed that 9 May was the date S got in touch with Locktons. 
I think thats supported by other evidence, in particular an email Locktons sent to S on 9 
May. I think it was reasonable of Locktons to then ask for further information about what 
happened and it contacted the insurer known within a reasonable period of receiving a 
response. So I dont think its done anything wrong here. 
And having reviewed the significant amount of email and other correspondence between 
Locktons, the insurer and S Im satisfied Locktons was proactive in seeking to move matters 
forward and responsive to queries that were raised with it by either S or the insurer. I think it 
also flagged concerns appropriately to S about the progress of the claim (in particular 
highlighting the co-operation clauses in the policy in October and November 2017).
I appreciate S may not have had full information about the claim in May 2017 or 
subsequently. Mr K has gone into some detail about the reasons for that. And I recognise 
there were further difficulties in obtaining evidence following the unexpected departure of a 
staff member. But Locktons did try and explain to the insurer why there were difficulties in S 
providing the requested information. So I think its done what Id expect here.  
Mr K told us Locktons at no time passed us to an insurance company or put an insurance 
company in contact with us. Im not sure if theres some confusion here but as Ive already 
said Locktons did contact the insurer about the claim and were in direct contact with them 
about it. And following the meeting at the end of August there was agreement S could have 
direct contact with the insurer and that did then happen. 
Mr K says Locktons agreed to the rectification works it was carrying out. But I havent seen 
other evidence of that. I accept Mr K did tell Locktons work was taking place but Locktons 
made clear to Ss loss assessor in June 2017 that, while rectification work might be covered 
by the policy, this was on condition prior approval was obtained from the insurer. In addition, 
it made clear no cover under the policy had been confirmed at that point. 
So I dont think S carried out these works on the basis of inaccurate information provided by 
Locktons. In fact, based on what Mr K has said, the reason it did so was because it felt it had 
no choice in order to avoid major contractual problems with its client and associated costs. I 
can understand why it did that. But I think Locktons made clear that prior approval for the 
work was required to comply with the terms of the policy. So I dont think its done anything 
wrong here. 
And following the decline of the claim Locktons did present a case to the insurer questioning 
whether its position had in fact been prejudiced because prior approval wasnt sought. Its 
clearly unfortunate from Ss perspective the insurer didnt accept that argument, but I think in 
doing that Locktons was seeking to represent Ss interests. Mr K has also queried why was a loss adjuster appointed if there was no claim. The 
decision to appoint a loss adjuster was taken by his insurer so it isnt something Locktons 
would be responsible for. But, in any case, there clearly was a claim; S had made one. 
However, the appointment of a loss adjuster is part of the process of considering a claim; it 
doesnt mean the claim will be paid. 
Finally, in response to our investigators view Mr S has raised issues which relate to whether 
this policy was suitable for S. As our investigator said these are matters which relate to the 
sale of the policy and that isnt something S has raised previously. So, if it does want to 
pursue this issue, it will need to raise it as a fresh complaint with the seller so it has an 
opportunity to consider the matter. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman