DRN-2095507
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt process a chargeback in time
and rejected a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
What happened
I provided my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. In that decision I 
explained that I was expecting to uphold Mr Hs complaint. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
Mr H was interested in a classic car which was advertised as in excellent condition. He 
paid the merchant a £500 deposit using his Santander credit card, and he explained in an 
email that the deposit was paid subject to him arranging an independent engineers 
assessment of the car. The email went on to explain that should the engineer find 
moderate to serious faults that were unknown to me prior to inspection, I reserve the right 
not to proceed further and obtain a refund of the deposit paid.
The independent inspection was generally complimentary about the condition of the car, but 
the inspector did note some faults. Amongst other things he said:
paintwork showed signs of micro blistering and would require a respray to bring it 
back to a good condition;
the front bumper was misaligned;
the doors didnt fit as they should.
The inspector was also not given an opportunity to drive the vehicle, so the report was based 
solely on a visual inspection.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the condition of the car. So, he contacted Santander and a 
chargeback was attempted. But this was rejected as the chargeback scheme administrator 
said it was made out of time.
Santander went on to consider a section 75 claim, but they rejected that too as they didnt 
think Mr H had provided sufficient evidence to support his complaint.
So, Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided a view. He 
explained that he would need to see evidence that the car had been misrepresented to Mr H 
or that there had been a breach of contract. He wasnt persuaded that was the case. But he 
did think it was clear Santander hadnt processed his chargeback request in time and they 
should therefore compensate Mr H for their error. He noted they had already provided 
compensation of £150 and he thought that was reasonable in all the circumstances and that 
they didnt need to take any further action.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through the 
chargeback scheme or a section 75 claim. 
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme is not operated by Santander and the scheme operator sets strict rules under 
which claims can be made.
One of those rules is that claims need to be made within 120 days.
As the chargeback was raised by Santander after 120 days the scheme provider were right 
to reject it. Its usual for the creditor (Santander) to initially credit the consumers account and 
then debit the account if the chargeback is denied. Thats what happened here: Santander 
didnt accept Mr Hs claim. They simply credited his account whilst it was being considered 
and then debited it again when the chargeback was rejected.
I think the evidence suggests Mr H submitted his claim well within the chargeback time 
limits. But Santander didnt submit the chargeback until 25 April 2019 which was out of time. 
In those circumstances, whilst it wouldnt be for Santander to uphold the chargeback, they 
should provide some compensation. I think the £150 they offered was sufficient as, after all, 
Mr H could still succeed in his claim for a refund through a section 75 claim, that I see 
Santander then went on to consider.
Section 75
This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made a claim 
through them for breach of contract or misrepresentation.I dont think all the evidence Mr H provided was thoroughly considered. Its clear Mr H did 
pay a deposit, but that deposit was provided on the basis of his email to the merchant in 
which he said that if the engineer find(s) moderate to serious faults that were unknown to 
me prior to inspection, I reserve the right not to proceed further and obtain a refund of the 
deposit paid.
Its clear that the engineer did find what I think could fairly be considered moderate to 
serious faults. He said the doors werent fitted properly, the bumper was misaligned, and 
the car would need a respray.
I think its fair to say Mr H was paying a deposit to secure the car but would only be 
accepting the vehicle if the inspectors report was satisfactory. And here Im not persuaded 
that it was satisfactory. There were faults identified with the car and the inspection wasnt a 
full one as it wasnt possible to drive the vehicle. I dont think its fair to suggest Mr H would 
accept the car in those circumstances and I therefore think the contract Mr H had formed 
with the merchant had been broken.
And, even if Im wrong about that I think the car had also been misrepresented to Mr H. It 
was advertised as an excellent example and whilst I understand that this was a classic car 
of some vintage, I dont think the independent inspectors report suggests it is an excellent 
example as I dont think an excellent example would exhibit the issues the report highlighted 
and, in particular, its clear the paintwork wasnt in a good condition never mind an excellent 
condition.
So, in those circumstances, I dont think Santander were reasonable when rejecting Mr Hs 
section 75 claim and I think they should therefore refund the deposit he paid. They should 
add interest to this payment as Mr H has been deprived of that money whilst hes been 
progressing his complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Santander 
UK Plc to:
refund Mr Hs £500 deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Santander didnt provide any further evidence, but Mr H did. He asked me to consider 
refunding the cost hed incurred to have the independent inspection report completed. He 
said it was a consequential loss and the merchant had prevented the inspector from 
completing the inspection as they wouldnt let the car be driven.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that the cost of the independent inspectors report should be refunded as I 
think that was always an expense Mr H was going to incur.
He told the merchant that he would buy the car on the provision that the inspection report 
didnt raise any moderate concerns and, regardless of the lack of a test drive, the inspection 
did raise moderate concerns that led Mr H to pull out of the deal. The test drive was 
therefore unnecessary as, on the basis of the inspection that was completed, Mr H wasnt 
happy to proceed.Putting things right
So, Im not persuaded to tell Santander to refund the inspection report cost. But Ive seen no 
additional evidence that has led me to change my provisional decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Santander UK Plc to:
refund Mr Hs £500 deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman