DRN-3043038
The complaint
Mrs R has complained Santander Consumer (UK) plc are asking her to pay a debt from a 
conditional sale agreement for a car which she never took out. Shes also said this 
agreement would never have been affordable.  
What happened
Mrs R has been represented in her complaint by a local advice bureau. For ease I will refer 
to Mrs R predominantly.
In April 2016 a conditional sale agreement was taken out in Mrs Rs name. Santander 
defaulted this agreement in September 2016 and the agreement was terminated the 
following month.
Mrs R found support through her local advice bureau and raised a complaint with Santander. 
She told them shed never taken this agreement out knowingly. Whilst she had signed the 
agreement, shed understood she was signing for something else. The person shed been 
living with at the time had taken advantage of her whilst he had control of her finances.
Santander confirmed that as Mrs R had signed the agreement, and theyd spoken to her 
during this period, they believed she was aware of it. They continued to expect her to pay 
what was due. By this stage Santander was also aware that the car had been involved in an 
accident and had been written off. Santander pursued a claim in the County Court for 
payment of the debt.
Mrs R brought a complaint to the ombudsman service. She didnt believe she was liable for 
this debt as shed never taken out the agreement or had the car related to it. She also 
couldnt understand how she was granted a credit agreement when shed not been in work 
at the time it was taken out and relied on benefits for her and her childs income.
Our investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show Mrs R had been unaware 
of the agreement. Shed obviously signed it. And in September 2017 Mrs R had been 
present when a call had been put through to Santander from a body repair workshop. Our 
investigator also didnt think the agreement was unaffordable as Santander had carried out 
its checks.
After further review and collation of evidence showing Mrs Rs financial situation in 2016, 
another investigator confirmed Santander hadnt completed sufficient checks into Mrs Rs 
affordability. But looking at her finances, she believed the agreement was affordable.
Mrs R asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 August 2021. I believed that despite the issues 
around whether Mrs R had knowingly taken out the conditional sale agreement, there wasnt 
enough evidence to show shed ever have been able to afford the finance agreement as 
required by the FCA guidance for lenders. I asked Santander to write off the agreement in 
Mrs Rs name and cease collection activities for the debt.
Mrs R, through her representative, accepted this outcome.
Santander believed the evidence was overwhelming that Mrs R signed the finance 
agreement. They also believed they had undertaken appropriate steps at the time to check 
Mrs R would find the finance agreement affordable.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail thats already been covered in our investigators views of 
22 January 2020 and 2 June 2021. I will, of course, be mentioning those aspects that are 
key to the decision Im making.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether Mrs R completed the conditional sale 
agreement or not? And even if she did, whether she can be held liable for the repayments? 
Ive considered this as well as the issue of unaffordability and explain below why reviewing 
the latter aspect seems the correct approach.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from Santander which shows Mrs R 
signed the credit agreement. Her signature  and theres no dispute its hers  is also on a 
range of supporting documentation completed before the car was handed over. Santander 
has also been able to show a copy of Mrs Rs passport and her provisional driving licence 
was available to the dealers when the agreement was being drawn up. 
Our investigator felt although Mrs R only had limited English, she would most likely have 
understood she was signing a credit agreement. I certainly agree that if she was in a 
dealership, itd be hard to believe she wouldnt have known what she was signing. However 
Santander  despite my request  hasnt been able to evidence Mrs Rs presence in the 
dealership. I appreciate that dealerships are required to follow defined procedures to identify 
the person taking out the credit agreement. This would include speaking to the signatory of 
any credit agreement. Mrs R has been adamant she wasnt at the dealership and that she 
was duped into signing all the paperwork.
There are also at least two phone calls between Mrs R and Santander in June 2016 and 
September 2017. Copies of the calls arent available for me to listen to. Santanders notes show Mrs R could only speak very limited English (and this is backed up when Santanders 
agent tried to check the whereabouts and condition of the car). However I cant imagine 
Mrs R wouldnt have known she was speaking to Santander about some form of financial 
agreement. She thought it was about a bank account (and she did hold a Santander current 
account at the time). But this doesnt satisfactorily explain a discussion in a body repair 
workshop which can really only ever have been about the car.
Ive also taken note of the evidence Mrs R has provided about her personal situation. By 
2016 shed recently left her husband after being a victim of domestic violence. Shed allowed 
someone she knew to live with her but he took advantage of her, including taking control of 
her finances. She was only able to get him to leave her rented property by involving her local 
council and landlord to help her. This suggests it is possible that Mrs R was completely 
duped. But it also suggests an alternative scenario with Mrs R being financially coerced into 
signing the credit agreement which I tend to think is most likely particularly as theres no 
evidence she ever drove the car herself.
I dont think theres any dispute that whatever happened here isnt straightforward. I have 
found it difficult to be sure about the truth of what occurred. Mrs R has argued that its 
impossible for her to prove her case and I completely accept this. I must, however, make a 
decision based on the current information. On balance I think its most likely Mrs R is aware 
that she signed a conditional sale agreement for a car.  
However this isnt the end of the issue as I think its fair and reasonable to consider whether 
this agreement was affordable.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator completed a detailed view dated 2 June 2021. I will 
inevitably be repeating some of the same issues as my basis for considering whether 
Santander conducted proper checks uses the same criteria as our investigator.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability aspects of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs R 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs R could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mrs R has been disadvantaged in any way by Santanders actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs R 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Santander were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Rs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check has to be borrower-focussed. This means it needs to be concerned with whether Mrs R could sustainably afford the borrowing, rather than how 
statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Santander as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
In reviewing Mrs Rs conditional sale agreement with Santander, I see the total amount 
repayable in the agreement was nearly £19,000. The agreement was taken out in April 2016 
for a three year period. Mrs R was paying just over £350 a month. 
My starting point is that any reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought 
to have been quite thorough.
Santander has provided us with limited details of the checks carried out prior to lending to 
Mrs R. These helped them to understand what Mrs Rs current credit commitments were and 
to see how she was managing them. But in fact Mrs R was in default on at least one 
agreement and this seemed to have no impact on the decision Santander made. Im 
surprised that this fact didnt encourage Santander to take a closer look at whether Mrs R 
was able to afford the lending.
Santander has told us that they understood Mrs R was in employment at the time and this, 
along with the credit check, was sufficient for them to offer her finance. Santander could only 
have expected Mrs R to be earning a relatively-low wage based on the false information they 
had. But theres no evidence they undertook any income and expenditure check.
Santander has argued Mrs R was in breach of her finance agreement by giving false 
information. I dont believe theres any evidence Mrs R provided the evidence about her 
wage. And based on her limited English comprehension, I believe its possible she didnt 
provide this information at all.
Im satisfied the checks Santander carried out were not proportionate to the credit being 
offered. That fact alone doesnt mean the lending was unaffordable as I need to consider 
Mrs Rs specific situation.Did Santander make a fair lending decision?
Ive reviewed Mrs Rs financial situation at the time she took out the finance and I dont 
agree that it was reasonable of Santander to offer the credit they did.
As it happens theres no evidence Mrs R was in employment  all the evidence points to the 
opposite. Ive seen evidence from HMRC confirming Mrs R wasnt in receipt of any taxable 
income from 2014-18. DWP has confirmed the benefits Mrs R received during this period 
which included income support, housing benefit (of which Mrs R was left with a shortfall) and 
child tax credit. All of this has been shared with Santander previously.
Santander has raised the issue that Mrs R provided them with false information about her 
employment. But based on what Ive already said above about someone else controlling her 
finances, I dont think Santander can show Mrs R provided them with this information.  
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Rs various bank statements as have I. I dont think theres 
any dispute that based on Mrs Rs benefit income alone Mrs R was not in a position to 
sustainably repay this credit agreement. The commitment of £353 would have taken more 
than half the benefit payments Mrs R was receiving on a monthly basis. This would therefore 
have exceeded any proportion that credit should take when considering someone with a 
limited  and set  income. Apart from this I wonder how she would have been able to pay 
for additional expenses associated with any car like insurance.
Our investigator noted for a period from at least January to May 2016, Mrs R was receiving a 
payment of £1,200 to £1,500 a month. If this was Mrs Rs income or payment from another 
source, then this would have meant any credit agreement would have been affordable.  
I tracked this money which came from an account which wasnt in Mrs Rs name. When 
received into Mrs Rs account, it was then transferred to a savings account held by Mrs R for 
her son. However by May 2016  within a month of the credit agreement being signed  this 
account had barely any month left in it. Theres also no evidence that there are continued 
monthly payments of a similar amount credited to Mrs Rs current account. I suspect these 
payments were tied up with the person who was controlling Mrs Rs finances and using her 
accounts at the time.
Mrs R held a number of accounts. In only one of them in 2016 can I see Mrs R ever had a 
balance in excess of £300. And this was for only a day. It is not our role to dictate what 
someone should be spending their money on but if Santander had completed a more 
detailed investigation into Mrs Rs financial circumstances, I believe theyd have quickly 
noted how little disposable income Mrs R had left each month. So how could they have 
expected her to pay an additional £350 a month?
Overall I dont think theres evidence to show that this credit agreement was affordable or 
sustainable.
Putting things right
Its clear  that despite being told about Mrs Rs personal situation  Santander continued to 
take action to secure the money Mrs R owed. I believe Mrs R continues to live on benefits 
and is unemployed and now has a daughter as well as her son. Im not sure I can see that 
theyd have any prospect of getting Mrs R to repay them.
Im aware that following the car being involved in an accident in 2016  and being potentially 
written off  the whereabouts of the car is unknown. Its possible that the person that was 
living with Mrs R took the car when they left. From what Mrs R has said, I believe thats what she believes.  
Ive taken all these circumstances into account when deciding what I believe is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. The fact I believe the credit agreement was 
unaffordable is the main aspect driving this resolution.
Overall as I dont believe Santander should ever have granted credit to Mrs R, then I dont 
think they can ask her to repay any money owed on the agreement.
I appreciate that Santander end my consideration of Mrs Rs complaint without the car or 
being able to ask Mrs R to repay what is owed. This will undoubtedly seem unfair to them 
but based on the evidence Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Santander Consumer (UK) plc to:
Cancel any conditional sale agreement in Mrs Rs name;
Write off any debt they were trying to collect from her and cease collection activities; 
and
Remove any reference to this agreement from Mrs Rs credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman