DRN-1943026
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him an MPPI policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr A took out an MPPI policy in a meeting in December 1990 with Santander. The policy 
was added to a mortgage he already had in place. 
Santander recommended the policy to Mr A, but I concluded in my provisional decision that I 
didnt think it was suitable for him. I said after considering his circumstances, that he didnt 
have a strong need for it. I could see that he had very good sick pay and savings that was 
worth more than 12 months of his pay. 
I upheld Mr As complaint as when I considered the cost of the policy compared to the 
benefit and his particular circumstances, that it wasnt suitable for him. I then asked 
Santander to put things right and asked both parties to let me know if they had any further 
comments.
In response to my provisional decision on 29 May 2020, Mr A said he has no further 
comments to add and agreed with my findings. 
Santander replied on 16 June 2020 and reiterated that the policy was suitable for Mr A. It 
said the policy would have met Mr As repayment obligations and so he wouldnt have 
needed to rely on his savings that were earmarked for another use. It also added that the 
benefit provided by the policy would have covered the shortfall that his sick pay wouldnt 
have covered over a 12 month period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have again considered Santanders comments and acknowledge what it has said. But 
again I am persuaded Mr A wouldnt have had a strong need for the policy based on his 
circumstances at the time and that more likely than not the policy wasnt suitable for him.
So it follows that Santander should put things right and pay him some compensation.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr A in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out MPPI.
Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Mr A the amount he paid each month for the MPPI.Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
Santander should tell Mr A what its done to work out A and B.
Santander must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
 If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman