DRN-3904333
The complaint
Mr J complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined a claim 
under his home insurance policy. He considers Lloyds to have caused avoidable delays and 
he wants to be compensated for this.
Any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr J has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. 
In February 2022, he made a claim on his policy for damage to his kitchen floor tiles 
which he said had cracked due to moisture coming up through the concrete subfloor. 
He said the kitchens underfloor heating had also stopped working a few days prior. 
At the same time, Mr J arranged for a plumbing engineer to attend his property  who 
fixed a leaking radiator.  
Mr J says he commenced repair works in April 2022 having experienced difficulties in 
contacting Lloyds and delays with it progressing his claim. 
The claim was subsequently declined in mid-May 2022. At this time, Lloyds said 
because Mr J had ripped out the kitchen and installed a new one, it wasnt able to 
assess the water related damage and validate the claim. 
Unhappy with Lloyds decision to decline his claim and the customer service hed 
received, Mr J complained. 
In response, Lloyds paid Mr J £650 compensation. This was to account for the 
difficulties Mr J said hed experienced in contacting Lloyds. As part of its response, it 
said there was a valid claim for the floor but questioned why the kitchen was 
removed to repair the leak. So, it arranged for a personal claims consultant (PCC) to 
reconsider the claim. 
In July 2022, following the PCCs review, Lloyds maintained its position that there 
wasnt a valid claim because there wasnt any damage to inspect, and Mr J hadnt 
provided a cause of damage report. It added that it couldnt see how the radiator  
which Mr J had said was where the water leak emanated from  could cause damage 
to the kitchen tiles approximately three meters away. 
Lloyds did, however, award a further £100 compensation because it said it had 
incorrectly given Mr J the impression it could consider the flooring element of his 
claim. Mr J declined Lloyds offer of additional compensation.
Unhappy, Mr J complained to this Service. An Investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it. Because Mr J disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) states an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. So, Ive considered 
what this means in the context of Mr Js complaint. 
Lloyds decision to decline Mr Js claim 
With any claim, the starting point is that the onus is on the policyholder to show an 
insured event most likely caused the damage claimed for. Here, Mr J says the leak 
emanating from the radiator caused the damage to his kitchen floor and units  hes 
provided his plumbing engineers invoices, photographs of the affected areas, and 
the repair works hes carried out, to do so. 
But Lloyds has said it cant validate the claim because the repairs have been 
completed and so, theres no damage to assess. It also doesnt consider the 
evidence provided by Mr J to show the leak from the radiator caused the damage.
Because the parties dispute how the damage occurred, I need to consider whether 
Mr J has shown, on the balance of probabilities, that an insured event caused it. So, 
Ive looked at the evidence provided by both parties. 
Mr Js plumbing engineer reported after their initial visit: 
Attended property to reports of a leak coming through the kitchen floor tiles. I 
found water in various locations in kitchen area. I was unable to ascertain 
exact source of leak, so I have isolated the hot and cold supplies to the 
kitchen for now and will need to return for further investigations.
Following their subsequent visit, the engineer reported:
Pulled out kitchen base unit but the source of the leak was still not obvious. 
Removed tiles around kitchen base unit area and found screed to be soaking 
wet so carefully hacked away screen to reveal hot and cold water pipes. 
Pulled up tiles and screed from around radiator area to expose heating flow 
and return pipes. Found heating return pipe to be leaking. [] replaced 
section of 15mm pipe within screed. Filled and vented system. Tested and left 
correct.
Whilst Mr Js engineer identified a leak with the radiator and noted parts of the floor 
were wet  I note their comments dont confirm the damage occurred because of an 
escape of water from the radiator. The plumbing engineer has said the screed 
around the kitchen base units was soaking wet but there isnt photographic evidence 
to support this  likewise with the area by the radiator. 
Ive also looked at the photographs provided by Mr J and note these show tape 
seemingly placed across several cracks. But as above, these photos arent 
accompanied by evidence  such as photographs of wet flooring underneath the tiles or a cause of damage report. So, theres little evidence to support the radiator being 
the most likely cause of the water related damage. 
Ive also kept in mind the PCCs comment that notably, the radiator and damaged 
tiles were approximately three metres apart - and that if water emanating from the 
radiator was the cause of the damage, it would be reasonable to expect to see 
damage occurring between the two points. But that hasnt happened here.
Ive also considered Mr Js point that hes since discovered his floor is sloped which 
he says allowed water from the radiator to travel a greater distance. Whilst Mr Js 
explanation might be plausible, in the absence of evidence which shows the floor 
was wet underneath the damaged tiles and that this was connected to the radiator 
leak, Im again, not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to show the damage is 
attributable to an insured event. 
I understand Mr J feels strongly that had Lloyds acted promptly and assessed the 
damage earlier on things wouldnt have escalated to the point of him needing to strip 
out his kitchen. But from what Ive seen, I dont consider Lloyds handling of his claim 
to have been so unreasonable that he was left with no alternative but to act beyond 
identifying where the water may have been coming from. 
I say this because Mr J logged his claim online in February 2022, but according to 
Lloyds didnt follow up the claim until May 2022 - at which point it appointed its 
surveyor to inspect the damage. Its unclear whether this period of inactivity was due 
to an error on Lloyds or Mr Js part, but I note Lloyds has since said that whilst it paid 
£650 compensation, this wasnt based on there being clear evidence of it having 
failed to progress the claim  rather it had given Mr J the benefit of the doubt that 
hed had difficulties getting in touch due to there being a high demand for Lloydss 
service at the time.
But in any event, the terms and conditions of the policy make it clear the policyholder 
must give Lloyds information which includes the cause of the damage or loss, and 
that it has a chance to inspect the damage and validate the claim before the 
policyholder takes steps to repair, as it says: 
Do not throw away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see 
them or carry out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance 
to inspect them. 
[] You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss.  
And so, whilst I accept it was reasonable for Mr J to instruct a plumbing engineer to 
identify a leak, I dont consider it fair to expect Lloyds to cover the costs of replacing 
his floor and kitchen units when it hadnt been given the opportunity to validate the 
claim in line with the policy terms. 
Mr J has said he wasnt given clear instructions at the start of his claim, and this led 
to him not following the claims process as Lloyds has prescribed. But Im satisfied the 
policy makes it clear whats required of the policyholder, and so Im not persuaded by 
this argument.  
Mr J says hes incurred a financial loss by repairing and replacing his kitchen, but 
simply put, that alone doesnt mean theres a valid claim. Ultimately, he needs to 
have shown that on the balance of probabilities an insured event caused the damage 
 but for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded hes done that. And so, I dont consider Lloyds decision to decline his claim to be unfair. 
For completeness, Lloyds has said there isnt trace and access cover because this 
only applies if theres a valid escape of water. As there isnt an insured event here - 
Im satisfied its applied the relevant policy term fairly. 
Compensation for claims handling
ICOBS requires insurers to handle claims promptly  but whats prompt will depend 
on the nature of the damage. Mr J has said Lloyds lack of action left him no choice 
but to continue with the repair works and so, it should cover his claim. Ive already 
explained above that Im not persuaded by this argument, but I have considered 
whether any further compensation is warranted here.
Lloyds has said that following Mr J initially logging the claim it didnt hear back from 
him until May 2022. Its acknowledged that he might have experienced difficulties in 
getting through on the phone during periods of high demand, but it says it also tried 
to contact him by phone and text message but that it didnt hear back from him.
Ive said above its not entirely clear whether Lloyds is solely responsible for the 
delays here  but even if it were, Im satisfied the amount of compensation its 
awarded in total - £750 - fairly reflects the difficulties Mr J may have experienced in 
respect of this and recognises that it mismanaged his expectations regarding the 
flooring element of his claim being covered. 
Ive thought about whether Mr J would have acted differently had he known the 
damage to his floor wasnt going to be covered but Im not persuaded he would have. 
I say this because prior to Lloyds confirming the outcome of the claim, hed already 
purchased new tiles, underfloor heating and arranged for the sub floor to be laid. 
So, having considered everything, I wont be asking Lloyds to pay an additional 
amount and Ill leave it with Mr J to decide whether he wants to accept the 
compensation its already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman