DRN-2893214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
responded to their concerns about information held on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database, in relation to their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have a home insurance policy with RSA that includes home emergency cover. 
Prior to the renewal in September 2020 they contacted other insurers to compare prices. 
They say they were advised that due to a problem with our personal details their quotes 
could not proceed any further. One insurer told them this may be because of an undeclared 
previous claim. 
Mr and Mrs M contacted RSA. It was explained that a claim had been recorded in January 
2020. However, they say conflicting information was given as to whether the claim had been 
recorded against their building insurance or against their home emergency policy. 
After several calls they were told the claim had been mistakenly recorded against their 
building insurance. RSA said it would amend the entry on the CUE database within 48 
hours. Because the policy required renewing, they say they had no choice but to renew with 
RSA.
RSA says information was correctly recorded on the CUE database. It says it has since 
added a description to confirm this relates to a home emergency claim. However, there is no 
specific option to record this as a home emergency policy. RSA says it recorded the claim as 
buildings, which was the most relevant. The other options being, contents, all risks and 
composite.  
One of our investigators looked into this. He decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought 
RSA had recorded the claim appropriately on the CUE database. He felt RSA could have 
added the home emergency description earlier, but as it has now made this addition did not 
think the company need do anything else. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. This has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
The purpose of the CUE database is to identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Most 
insurers are signed up to it and will make a record of any incident they are made aware of, 
whether this leads to a claim or not. 
In Mr and Mrs Ms case they made a successful claim with RSA in January 2020 using their 
home emergency cover  and this was recorded on the CUE database. 
Insurers all have their own methods of assessing risk. Part of this will be considering any 
previous losses and claims made by an individual. The claim Mr and Mrs M made in January 
2020 with RSA will have been known to the insurers they approached to obtain quotes, from 
looking at the database. 
RSA has explained the options available when recording a claim. Based on this I think it was 
correct to record the information in the way it did. I understand more detail has since been 
added to the entry. However, had this information been added earlier, I cannot reasonably 
say this will have made a difference to how other insurers dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms 
applications. I will explain why. 
Mr and Mrs M say one of the insurers they approached told them the problem causing their 
applications not to proceed, could be due to an undeclared previous claim. I note from their 
correspondence that they considered building insurance was distinctly separate from home 
emergency cover. Meaning the claim, they made in January 2020, neednt be declared when 
applying for building insurance.    
I can understand why they may have thought this. But the CUE database contains 
information relating to a range of insurance products including, home, motor, personal injury 
amongst others. If a claim is showing on the database that hasnt been declared by the 
applicant (including a home emergency claim) this will raise a concern for the insurer. I think 
its likely that this is what happened here.  
I havent seen the questions Mr and Mrs M were asked when they requested quotes. 
However, its usual for the insurer, or their agent, to request information about any claims or 
losses that occurred over the last few years. I cant fairly say that RSA is responsible for the 
other insurers, if it wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs M that all claims needed to be declared. 
This includes the home emergency claim from January 2020.
I note the conversations Mr and Mrs M had with RSA in September 2020 were somewhat 
confusing. Particularly about whether the claim was recorded against the home emergency 
or the building insurance policy. 
I think it was fair for RSA to arrange for the additional description to be added to the CUE 
database. But, as above, the database doesnt distinguish between buildings and home 
emergency claims.  
It may have helped if Mr and Mrs M were made aware at an earlier stage, that they needed 
to declare all claims when requesting quotes for their home insurance. But I cant reasonably 
say this was RSAs responsibility.  
RSA apologised that its explanation of the CUE entry was not made clear when Mr and Mrs 
M contacted its claims team. I think its fair that it apologised for this. 
Mr and Mrs M emailed this service several more times after our investigator provided his 
view. In this they again refer to the claim in January 2020 being put through against our 
building insurance. But say their complaint is not about the procedure for logging 
complaints. It relates to the misinformation provided by RSA about why their applications for 
quotes were subject to a red flag.
I understand their concerns. But, as above, I dont think RSA can reasonably be held 
responsible for the information Mr and Mrs M provided when applying for insurance quotes.  This was the responsibility of the insurers providing quotes to make clear.
In summary I think RSA did record information appropriately on the CUE database. It 
behaved reasonably in apologising for the confusion caused by its claims team, and in 
adding more context to the entry. Because of this, I cant reasonably ask it to do more.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman