DRN-3300664
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund transactions he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr G is disputing transactions totalling over £70,000 made on his accounts between 
September 2017 and January 2021. Mr G told us that his ex-partner and carer, who I will 
refer to as A, stole the money while they were living together. 
Unfortunately, Mr G was the victim of an assault some years ago, which left him with a 
traumatic brain injury. He says that A acted as his carer and as his appropriate adult, and 
they shared an intimate relationship.
Mr G has admitted he shared his log-in details for his online banking with A. He says he did 
this and consented to her taking his half of the bills from his account. However, Mr G says A 
took more than he agreed she could take.
Mr G says A would move money from his current account into their joint account, and then 
into her own account. He says that after he opened his current account, he no longer 
needed the joint account and that he requested NatWest to close this account several times. 
He says despite requesting it, NatWest failed to close the account, facilitating further 
transfers.
NatWest has provided account notes and says theres no trace of Mr G requesting for the 
closure of the joint account. None of the staff at his local branch remember this request from 
Mr G. NatWest said, as the disputed transfers were completed with the correct online 
banking details, it would have no reason to suspect anything untoward was going on.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She concluded that Mr G had given apparent 
authority to A to move money from his sole account and A had the right to withdraw money 
from their joint account. She could only see evidence that Mr G requested the joint account 
to be closed in June 2021 and it was closed shortly afterwards. The investigator also noted 
that the pattern of payments didnt look like fraud and wouldnt have aroused suspicion with 
NatWest.
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
From what Mr G has said, he has been taken advantage of financially and Im deeply sorry if 
that is the case. But my role isnt to determine whether Mr G has been the victim of a crime. 
My role is to determine whether NatWest is entitled to hold Mr G responsible for the disputed 
spending that occurred. 
Ive carefully considered everything thats been said, including the further information Mr G 
and his representative have recently provided and their request for further time to submit a 
third version of the documents - because Mr G doesnt feel it accurately reflects his 
circumstances. Ive noted Mr G has already sent two very similar versions of a mental 
capacity assessment (as well as the assessment of his other healthcare needs). But the 
report (which does not say Mr G lacks capacity) is not retrospective and its clear that any 
amended version cannot report on his capacity at the time of the transactions in question. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to wait for a further amended version.
Can NatWest hold Mr G liable for the disputed transactions? 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, of 
particular importance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 
2009) and 2017 (the PSR 2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mr G disputes. 
Amongst other things the PSR 2017 includes the following: 
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains: 
(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to (a) the execution of the 
payment transaction; or (b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that 
payment transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr G made the disputed transactions himself or 
authorised for them to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask NatWest to refund 
them. Mr G has been very clear that he does not consider the transactions in dispute were 
all authorised by him. But Im sorry to have to tell Mr G that this doesnt automatically mean 
that those transactions are unauthorised and that they should be refunded to him.
It is possible for Mr G to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on his behalf, 
so that he would be responsible for them, even if he didnt physically make the transactions 
himself or give A explicit permission for them. NatWest can hold Mr G responsible for any 
spending that happened because Mr G gave someone his permission to act on his behalf. 
This is what is known as apparent authority. If a payer has enabled the use of their payment 
instruments by a third party, so that it looks to the bank like the payment transaction has 
been authorised by the payer, the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of 
the PSRs. 
Mr G explained that when he and A lived together, he authorised A to transfer money from 
his current account to take his share towards the bills. By his own admission he authorised A 
by providing her with log-in details for his online banking. He also says he authorised some loans to her. But Mr G says he later found out A had taken more than she should have. He 
says he only noticed recently as he didnt check his bank statements.
So Mr G had agreed to A making a limited amount of spending for specific purposes that 
they had discussed. According to what Mr G says, A abused his trust and exceeded what 
had been agreed to by continuing to use his account to make transfers he didnt know about 
and payments that hed explained he wouldnt have wanted to make himself. But even 
though Mr G didnt agree to or know about these other payments, providing A with the ability 
to make some payments served to, in effect, authorise the further spending A went on to 
undertake. Whilst Mr G has explained he did not know about this further spending, he has 
been clear that he gave A access to his accounts for the purpose of making payments. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that Mr G took steps to withdraw that permission from A until 
their relationship ended in January 2021.
From what I have seen, I think the bank can fairly treat the disputed spending as being 
authorised, even if A spent more than Mr G agreed she could and in circumstances they had 
not discussed.
In terms of the joint account, A was a joint account holder and therefore able to access the 
funds without Mr Gs authority.
Should NatWest have done more to protect Mr G from financial harm? 
Ive thought about whether NatWest should have done more to protect Mr G from financial 
harm. 
The starting point is that a bank is expected to process payments that its customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. 
But there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
Ive thought about the transactions that are in dispute and whether there were any reasons 
why it would have been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances to have expected 
NatWest to have double checked payment instructions with Mr G before allowing the 
payments to be made. Having done so, I dont think the activity on Mr Gs account ought to 
have alerted the bank that something was wrong, and Im not persuaded that NatWest has 
missed obvious opportunities where it would have been prudent to further intervene. 
As Ive explained, Id expect NatWest to be on the lookout for out of character or unusual 
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where its customer might be at risk of financial 
harm. But at the same time, NatWest cant be involved in every transaction. Ive looked 
carefully at Mr Gs account statements and for the most part, the pattern of spending across 
his accounts did not stand out as particularly out of character, especially as the transactions 
in dispute took place over a long period of time. There are multiple transactions back and 
forth between Mr G and A  the same known payee  and a similar pattern between their 
joint account and a second account of Mr Gs. I wouldnt expect NatWest to have intervened 
in the day to day running of Mr Gs accounts to the extent that would have been required to 
discover the patterns he now claims. I think it is also worth noting that, as well as the 
transactions out to A, there are very similar payments coming in from A.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly criticise NatWest for processing the disputed payments. I dont think the transactions should 
have aroused suspicion that Mr G was being taken advantage of, or that NatWest missed 
clear indicators that Mr G was at risk of financial harm. I can only compel NatWest to refund 
money if it I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. But as I dont think NatWest should 
have done anything more in light of the information available to it at the relevant time, I cant 
hold the bank responsible and direct it to return the money thats been sent.
There is no legal obligation for NatWest to reimburse the funds. But it remains good practice 
for NatWest to investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be 
appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in 
situations where it is clear that its customer has been the victim of financial abuse. NatWest 
has considered the difficult situation Mr G is facing but concluded not to do anything further 
in this particular case. I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot 
fairly compel NatWest to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do 
not say that it should.
So Im afraid what happened since between Mr G and A is not something I can fairly hold 
NatWest responsible for. Mr G might want to take legal advice about his situation and any 
rights he might have. I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mr G. I know this wasnt the 
answer he was hoping for. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman