DRN-3446137
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has handled a 
subsidence claim under his buildings insurance policy. And he says it has made an unfair 
offer to cash settle the matter.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr W made a subsidence claim on his buildings insurance policy. This was 
considered within a previous complaint brought to this Service and decided within an 
Ombudsmans final decision that considered events up until October 2020. 
Our Investigator has explained that this complaint is therefore limited to the subjects 
that were not already decided. This extends only to any potential delays and handling 
from October 2020 onwards, and the cash settlement it has offered.
In September 2021 Fairmead explained its cash settlement offer which came to 
£340,442.94 (plus VAT). 
Mr W is unhappy with this, saying it doesnt cover all aspects of the damage, nor 
account for inflation, and he feels these figures were manipulated. He also says since 
the last decision, the claim has suffered delays and he complained that one of 
Fairmeads agents took external photos of the property which was unreasonable as 
he operates a business with children present at the property.
Fairmead reviewed what had happened and said it had caused some delays and 
addressing concerns about the schedule of works had taken longer than it would 
normally expect. So, it offered £400 compensation. And it said the settlement could 
not be progressed as Mr W had insisted on a lump sum cash settlement which had 
previously been determined as unreasonable by this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She said there was nothing to suggest its 
settlement was missing any items, nor that theyd been manipulated, and overall was 
fair in light of the available evidence based on the necessary scope of works. 
The Investigator said Fairmeads actions to capture external photographs was 
reasonable as Mr W had previously not provided them when requested  but it 
should consider the circumstances going forward. She said there were delays, and 
Fairmeads offer of £400 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr W disagreed, and provided a detailed account of his reasons why, including 
previous quotes now being out of date, roof damage not being included within the 
scope of works, and a lack of trust with Fairmead. He also raised concerns about the 
content of the previous final decision.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said Fairmeads 
consideration of the roof damage and conclusion that it wasnt be caused by the 
subsidence was fair. She was satisfied the offer it had made was fair. And she 
reiterated we cannot reconsider previous decisions. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part as Im satisfied the offer Fairmead has 
made is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Settlement offer
Fairmead has obtained various quotes for the necessary works. Mr W says Fairmead 
shouldnt be able to rely on the lowest of the several quotes it obtained. And instead 
hes said it should use an average.
Under the policy terms, Fairmead is able to cash settle the claim  which is what Mr 
W has agreed to. When cash settling it is common for insurers to select the lowest of 
the quotes obtained. I see nothing unfair about this in principle as its indicative of 
likely costs available on the market. And Ive been given nothing by Mr W that would 
change my mind in the circumstances of this case.
Mr W has raised concerns about Fairmeads ability to release funds in stages and 
instead wants a lump sum settlement. As our Investigator has outlined, this subject 
 whether it is fair for Fairmead to do this  has been specifically covered within our 
previous final decision. So, I have nothing to add as this does not fall within the 
scope of my decision.
Mr W has requested Fairmead revisit the sums offered in light of the time that has 
passed since the quotes were obtained but it has declined to do so. Fairmead has 
said Mr W has rejected any reasonable offer it has made as he only will accept a 
lump sum offer. Taking into account Mr Ws objections across this time, Im satisfied 
Fairmeads decision here is reasonable. 
Claim progression
Fairmead has acknowledged that it has caused some delays in the handling of this 
claim since October 2020. Our Investigator has outlined the timeline of these events 
previously. And Im in agreement these delays would have caused Mr W a degree of 
avoidable and unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Taking these delays into 
account and their limited impact on the overall claim, Im satisfied Fairmeads offer of 
£400 is fair and reasonable.
Scope of work  roof and boundary wall
Various reports and opinions have been put forward on this case. I will focus on the 
ones I consider to be most persuasive or significant in my decision. Ive included 
some of their commentary from the relevant experts below.
In July 2020, a Fairmead appointed surveyor reviewed the roof, concluding:
There are concerns with subsidence to the property. There are some areas of 
cracking to the brickwork however none of these are contributing to the roof 
issues
In October 2021 Fairmeads appointed surveyor reviewed the damage to Mr Ws 
boundary wall. He detailed the condition of the site, and concluded: the defects noted within the wall, are due to the form and age of the 
construction as opposed to a specific event occurring.
Around this same time, Fairmead told Mr W:
The best time to assess any problem associated with subsidence of the site will 
be when the stabilisation and superstructure works are complete. We would be 
happy to arrange for a professional inspection of the roof at that stage, to identify 
any work required that may be covered under the policy, for which an additional 
payment can then be calculated. Alternatively, if you have a written report from 
one of the contractors who have already looked at the roof for you, we would be 
happy to review this.
I understand Fairmead wasnt provided with anything further to consider. But in late 
October 2021 Fairmead contacted Mr W, saying:
Our surveyor [name] of [Company A] has reported following his recent inspection 
of your boundary wall. He has sent me photographs of the wall, together with 
some of the house roof taken from ground level.
There is no evidence of any damage to the wall or roof consistent with ground 
movement. These areas will not therefore be added to the schedule of 
Subsidence repairs. We remain willing to organise a full inspection of the roof on 
completion of the Subsidence repairs, as outlined in my email
I think this was a reasonable conclusion to reach on its part as Ive not been provided 
with any expert evidence or opinion to suggest the damage to the boundary wall or 
roof are connected to the subsidence. I have taken Mr Ws own comments into 
account, as well as the quotes for repairs hes provided, but these havent changed 
my mind. I say this as I dont find his comments as persuasive as the views of the 
technical opinion provided by Fairmead. And because the quotes Ive seen are 
limited to the costs of repair works, and do not provide a competing technical opinion 
on the cause of the damage that would persuade me otherwise.
Other issues
Mr W has said Fairmeads settlement does not include a sum for alternative 
accommodation. Fairmead has said it will consider this once the repair of the 
property begins. Im satisfied this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W has requested the specific quotes relied upon by Fairmead. As our Investigator 
has said, it has already shared the overall cash settlement figure and the scope of 
works, so Im satisfied its acted fairly by not sharing information that is commercially 
sensitive. And Im not asking it to do any more than this.
Mr W was unhappy one of Fairmeads agents took external photos of the home. Its 
clear to me it did so to progress the claim and without any ill intent. And Im not 
persuaded it was unreasonable action for it to take in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay 
Mr W £400 in compensation in light of the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman