DRN-3307275
The complaint
Mr Ks complained about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) dealt with the 
charges and interest on one of his accounts  and about closing both his accounts with 
them.
What happened
Mr K had a student account with Nat West. By 2017, Mr K says the account was overdrawn 
by about £2,500  partly as a result of Nat West applying interest and charges, which he 
thought were unfair and unlawful. Mr K had a second account with Nat West, which was 
largely in credit.
During a trip overseas, Mr K found that his accounts were closed. So he was left in the 
embarrassing position of having to borrow money for expenses while away. He later moved 
his day to day banking to another bank.
Towards the end of 2018, Mr K complained to Nat West about the interest and charges 
applied to his student account and his accounts being closed (the 2018 complaint).  In 
addition, he said letters sent to him about the student account were sporadic and 
threatening. And that hed been contacted by a debt collector after hearing nothing from Nat 
West for a year.
Nat West investigated the 2018 complaint and sent Mr K their final response on 28 
December 2018. They said that charges had been applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. And that theyd written to Mr K regularly, including sending a default notice and 
formal demand, but hed not replied. So theyd referred the account to their collections team, 
and later to debt collectors. Nat West said that the account was transferred from one debt 
collection agency to another and no error had occurred.
But, as a gesture of goodwill, Nat West said they would refund interest and both arranged 
and unarranged overdraft charges debited since Mr K had last used the account. These 
totalled £505.59 and were applied to reduce the overdraft on Mr Ks account. And Nat West 
confirmed which debt collection agency he should contact to deal with the remaining debt.
Following his complaint, Mr K made three proposals to deal with the debt and asked Nat 
West to advise on which was best. But he didnt get a reply. So, in August 2019, he raised a 
second complaint about this (the 2019 complaint)  and about Nat West setting off the 
credit balance in his other account against the overdraft.
Nat West investigated. They apologised for not replying and paid Mr K £50 compensation. 
And they confirmed the account had been passed to a new debt collection agency and said 
Mr K should now deal with them. In respect of setting off, they said they had the right to do 
this and had advised Mr K of this in December 2014.
In July 2020, Mr K brought his complaints to our service. Our investigator considered them 
and concluded we couldnt investigate the 2018 complaint, because our rules say that, 
unless there are exceptional circumstances which mean they cant, complainants should 
bring their complaint to us within six months of a businesss final response.
But the investigator did consider we could look at the 2019 complaint. He did this and 
concluded £50 was a fair sum of compensation for what had gone wrong.  And he noted Nat 
West had the right to set off the credit balance of Mr Ks account against what he owed.  So 
he didnt think they needed to do anything different to resolve his complaint.
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint was passed to me.  I made a 
provisional decision because I didnt think either of Mr Ks complaints had been brought to us 
within six months of Nat Wests final responses  which would mean we didnt have 
jurisdiction to look at either of them.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K provided information which he said shows there 
were exceptional circumstances why he didnt bring his complaints to us until July 2020.  
And he said his complaints about communication from Nat West about the default still hadnt 
been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I think exceptional circumstances did exist which meant Mr K couldnt 
bring the 2019 complaint to us within the required time.  But Im not upholding that complaint.  
Ill explain why.
Jurisdiction
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K explained that, sadly, a family member became 
seriously ill in August 2019  which is when Nat West sent their final response to the 2019 
complaint.  Mr K provided regular care, eventually moving in with his relative to do so on a 
full time basis.  
The relevant part of our rules (DISP 2.8.1) says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response.
(2)  
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
I do think the circumstances Mr K has described were exceptional and his focus would  
naturally and understandably  be on caring for his relative rather than pursuing his 
complaint.  So I think we should consider the 2019 complaint.
But Ive not seen any information to suggest exceptional circumstances apply to the 2018 
complaint.  Nat West sent Mr K their final response in December 2018  so he had until June 
2019 to refer it to our service.  He didnt do that.  So Ive decided that we can only consider 
the issues raised in the 2019 complaint.  
MeritsThe 2019 complaint raised two issues.  First, Mr K said Nat West didnt reply to his letters 
setting out various proposals to settle his debt.  And, second, he complained about Nat West 
setting off the credit balance in one of his accounts against the overdraft in the other.  Ive 
thought about both of these.
Ive seen Nat West confirmed in their final response to the 2018 complaint that Mr Ks 
account had been referred to a debt collection agency and that, in future, he should contact 
the debt collection agency about repaying his debt and getting any balance released from 
the account which had a credit balance.  And Mr Ks given us a copy of a letter he received 
from the agency in early January asking him to get in touch to discuss his account.
Im satisfied from these letters that Mr K was made aware he should contact the debt 
collection agency, rather than Nat West, about options for repaying his debt. 
I note Nat West have paid Mr K £50 for not replying to his letter.  And, while I understand 
why he contacted Nat West, I dont think that stopped Mr K from taking the action Nat West 
and the debt collection agency had advised him to.  I think the payment of £50 is a fair 
amount for the inconvenience he was put to and Nat West dont need to do anything more to 
resolve this.
Ive also looked at the complaint that Nat West set off Mr Ks credit balance on one account 
against what he owed them on the other.  I can see that Mr K acknowledged in his complaint 
to us that Nat Wests terms and conditions give them the right to do this.  And I can see from 
Nat Wests notes that they wrote to him about setting off and that Mr K contacted them about 
this. 
As Im satisfied Nat West had the right to set off and that Mr K was aware of their intention, I 
dont think they need to do anything else to resolve this part of his complaint.   
When he responded to my provisional decision, Mr K said his complaint about Nat Wests 
communication  and specifically about the default notice they sent  hasnt been 
addressed.
Ive thought about this.  But the only references to communications are made in the final 
response sent to the 2018 complaint.  As Ive explained above, that wasnt referred to us 
within the time limit set out in our rules.  So I dont have the authority to consider it any 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman