DRN-3189515
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oakam Ltd was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr J borrowed £250 from Oakam on 24 June 2017. He was scheduled to repay £18.05 per 
week for 26 weeks. The loan was due to be repaid on 26 December 2017 but has now been 
sold to a third-party debt collection agency.
Mr J says he was not working at the time of the loan and was already in financial difficulties. 
He says he had a number of other short-term loans, his credit file would have shown 
defaulted accounts and Oakam didnt carry out enough checks before approving the loan.
Oakam says Mr J was asked for information about his income and expenditure and these 
figures were validated with external sources. It says it carried out a full credit check which 
showed one defaulted account which had been settled in 2016. Oakam says there was no 
indication Mr J was in current financial difficulties and its calculations showed the 
repayments were sustainably affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He considered Oakams 
checks were proportionate and that there was nothing in the available information to indicate 
the repayments were unsustainable.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that Oakam had provided false information and that he 
maintained the lending was irresponsible as he had multiple defaults at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
When Mr J applied for the loan, Oakam asked him for information about his income and 
expenditure and carried out a credit check. Ive seen the results of the credit check and it 
showed Mr J had seven active accounts with outstanding credit of £802. I acknowledge Mr J 
says the check would have shown multiple defaults, but Ive seen evidence to show there 
were no defaults in the 12 months preceding the loan.
Mr J told Oakam that his income was £1,300 per month, with regular expenditure of £665. 
Oakam included £214 for Mr Js existing credit commitments which left him with over £420 of 
disposable income each month. On that basis, Oakam found the loan repayments to be 
affordable and approved the loan.
I cant see there was anything that should have prompted Oakam to carry out further checks 
and I find it was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr J in the circumstances of the lending  this was Mr Js first loan and the scheduled repayments were a maximum of 
7% of his declared income.
In summary, I consider Oakam carried out proportionate checks and that it did not act 
irresponsibly by approving the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman