DRN-1473314
The complaint
Miss O  on behalf of Company A  complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) trading 
as Direct Line unfairly declined her legal expenses insurance claim.
UKI use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance on their behalf, so any 
reference to the insurer within my decision should be read as including the acts or omissions 
of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy terms and conditions exclude claims relating to a dispute arising from an 
agreement entered into prior to the commencement of cover if the Date of 
Occurrence is within the first 90 days of the commencement of cover under this 
section. Company As policy was incepted on 10 June 2019, and the date of 
occurrence is defined by the policy as the date of the event that leads to a claim (in 
this instance, the contractual dispute) which occurred on 30 July 2019  and so falls 
within the first 90 days of the policys inception.
 
Company A entered into a framework agreement with a recruiter on 30 May 2019, 
which provided the overarching terms for the statement of works the company 
entered into on 17 June 2019 for a particular project, which then led to the 
contractual dispute. Miss O says that the statement of works overrides the framework 
agreement  so she submits that the relevant date for the purposes of the policy 
should be 17 June 2019 (after the policy commencement). 
But the framework agreement sets out that it establishes the basis upon which one 
or more Statement(s) of Work may be entered intounder which the Consultant may 
supply services and also specifically states that any statement of works is to 
incorporate the special terms set out in Schedule 1 and 2 of the framework 
agreement. 
So I do not consider the statement of works to override the framework agreement, 
but that instead, the two are co-dependent and are inextricably intertwined. The 
framework agreement is effectively the umbrella that covers the collaborative 
arrangement made between the parties and is the source from which the statement 
of works are borne. Any contractual dispute would inevitably concern the scrutiny of 
both the statement of works and the overarching framework agreement. Therefore, I 
do not consider it is unreasonable for UKI to designate 30 May 2019 (being the date 
of the framework agreement) as the date the contract was entered into. 
As the contract was entered into before the policy's inception  and given that the date of occurrence fell within 90 days of the date it was taken out  Company As 
claim is therefore caught by the policy exclusion. So I do not consider UKI to have 
declined the claim unfairly.
For these reasons, although I understand Miss Os frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O  on 
behalf of Company A  to accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman