DRN-1430260
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she stopped receiving text alerts in relation to her current account with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mrs C was using the SMS Alert and Notification Service with Barclays. She received account 
updates and notifications if her balance went below £300. The system worked until 24 April 
2019 when Mrs C stopped receiving the alerts. 
Mrs C contacted Barclays to raise the issue. Barclays logged the incident with its IT 
department and told Mrs C it would contact her when it had a further update, but that there 
was no timescale as to when this would be. Barclays paid Mrs C £12.50 for phone costs.
By 8 May 2019 Mrs C hadnt had a response from Barclays. It told her that its IT department 
was still looking into the matter and issued a final response letter. Barclays paid Mrs C £25 
compensation and a further £10 for phone calls shed made.
Mrs C has told us she contacted her mobile phone provider around 6 June 2019 and that 
it made some systems changes which meant she started receiving her text alerts from 
Barclays again.
By 18 June 2019 text alerts were being successfully sent to Mrs C. Barclays sent Mrs C the 
terms and conditions shed asked for and paid her £25. Barclays agreed the service she 
received shouldve been better. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service and it was looked at by an investigator. They felt 
Barclays offer was fair so didnt ask it to take any further action. Mrs C disagreed and said 
Barclays couldve done more to help her. So the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Cs frustration at not receiving her text alerts as they helped her to monitor 
her bank account. Barclays said it referred the issue to its IT department on 26 April 2019. I 
appreciate Mrs C wanted to know how long it would take to resolve the issue. But Barclays 
needed to investigate the problem Mrs C reported before it could say how long it would take 
to resolve. 
Mrs C felt like her complaint had been closed or forgotten about, so she continued to chase 
Barclays for a response. I can see from Barclays notes that it had referred the matter to its 
IT department and was waiting for an update before it contacted Mrs C again. But I agree 
the level of contact with Mrs C could've been better and that Barclays ought to have done 
more to keep her updated. I also agree that Barclays customer service should've been better. Mrs C had to ask for the 
relevant terms to be sent to her several times before they were received. However, Barclays 
has paid Mrs C £50 compensation for the way it handled her queries as well as £22.50 to 
cover her call costs. Whilst I agree the query could've been handled better, I'm satisfied 
Barclays has apologised and the settlement its paid fairly reflects the impact of the service 
Mrs C received. 
Mrs C said that after speaking to her mobile service provider she began receiving Barclays 
text alerts again. Mrs C said Barclays couldve done more to help her, but I dont think it 
wouldve been aware of the issues with her mobile phone provider. Im satisfied that 
Barclays took reasonable steps to try and resolve the situation by referring the matter to the 
relevant technical team. 
As Ive said above, I dont think there was much more Barclays couldve done to resolve the 
problems Mrs C experienced. I agree the service shouldve been better, but Im satisfied the 
settlement Barclays has paid is fair in all the circumstances. As the text alert system is now 
working and I think Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman