The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that British Gas Insurance Limited ("British Gas") treated them 
unfairly and poorly handled a claim they made under their HomeCare policy.
What happened
On 28 August 2019 Mr and Mrs C discovered their fridge freezer had broken down.
They contacted British Gas and were told one of its engineers would attend the following 
day, but no one turned up. Mr and Mrs C contacted British Gas again and it said an engineer 
would instead attend the following day (30 August 2019). But again, this didn't happen. 
Mr and Mrs C contacted British Gas again and an engineer attended their home and 
resolved the problem on 31 August 2019. Mr and Mrs C then complained to British Gas, 
saying it had caused them to take days off unnecessarily.
British Gas looked into what happened and agreed it had booked two appointments where 
an engineer failed to turn up and didn't notify Mr and Mrs C as it should've done. It initially 
awarded them £40 for the inconvenience, but then raised this to £100.
Mr and Mrs C were still unhappy so came to our service. One of our investigators didn't 
uphold the complaint, saying £100 was fair in the circumstances. Mrs C spoke to the 
investigator and explained she had a cottage industry of making and selling jams locally. 
And she said kept berries and fresh produce she'd picked herself in her fridge freezer. 
Mrs C said she'd told British Gas of the goods in the fridge. And she said had she known the 
engineers weren't attending she could've moved the goods to another fridge or location, so 
they didn't go to waste. But as British Gas's engineers missed their appointments with no 
notice, the goods did spoil and were unusable.
The investigator looked again and found the internal call notes for British Gas which showed 
Mrs C had told British Gas of her business. The investigator said it was clear Mrs C had 
spent many hours picking the berries herself and had lost the opportunity to make and sell 
the jams because British Gas hadn't kept her updated as to when the engineer was coming. 
And the investigator said this lack of notice also meant Mrs C had no opportunity or reason 
to move the goods to a friend or family members fridge freezer instead to prevent them 
spoiling. So she said British Gas should award Mrs C £300 in total for the additional impact 
of its mistakes.
Mrs C agreed, and British Gas acknowledged its mistake and increased its offer to £150 but 
said the investigator's suggested offer was excessive. As no agreement was reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman's final decision.
DRN-1726845What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
British Gas hasn't disputed that Mr and Mrs C's claim was covered and it needed to repair 
her fridge freezer after it stopped working. So I haven't had to consider whether the claim 
itself should be paid. So I've gone on to consider how it handled the claim.
Under the general conditions of this policy, it says:
"Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit."
British Gas has acknowledged and apologised for providing no updates to Mr and Mrs C on 
either 29 or 30 August 2019 to say the scheduled appointments wouldn't go ahead. And 
it has recognised that Mr and Mrs C had to chase it for updates despite marking the claim as 
a priority appointment.
So it's clear to me that British Gas didn't let them know as soon  as possible, and in turn 
hasn't met its obligations as set out in the policy book. 
British Gas also hasn't disputed that Mrs C held many ingredients within the fridge freezer 
unit that were part of her own home business. But it has said it felt £300 was unreasonable 
in the circumstances.
This means I have to consider whether British Gas' offer of £150 is enough in the 
circumstances of this complaint, and I'm not persuaded it is.
Mr and Mrs C were left waiting for an engineer that wasn't going to come over several days. 
And I have no doubt this caused them disruption as they stayed in. I also have no doubt that 
discovering an appointment wouldn't be going ahead after waiting around for a day would be 
frustrating. And I can see how this would be compounded when the same mistake happened 
again the following day.
Mrs C has described the effort she put into picking her berries and produce, and the 
disappointment she's had from losing these goods. And I can understand why losing them 
represented hours of her own lost efforts, and would leave her feeling as she does.
Overall it's clear to me that British Gas didn't keep Mr and Mrs C updated as it 
should've done, even though it was aware of the potential impact. And its actions led to 
frustration, disappointment, and the loss of opportunity to make and sell items that she'd 
kept inside the fridge freezer  which Mrs C would've enjoyed doing. 
I think British Gas needs to recognise each of these factors when considering the impact of 
its mistake, and I'm satisfied £300 is a fair and reasonable sum in the circumstances.
My final decisionFor the above reasons, I'm upholding this complaint. And I direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £300 in total. It may deduct any payments it has already made 
from this sum. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman