DRN-2451907
The complaint
Mr J isnt happy with the settlement figure provided by Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) when 
he settled his loan early.
What happened
On 28 September 2018 Mr J took out a Hire Purchase agreement to finance the purchase of 
a van. Mr J said that he asked the salesman about the costs of settling the loan early and he 
was told that he would have to repay the balance outstanding and possibly up to two months 
interest.
On 15 March 2020 Mr J asked for a settlement figure to repay the loan in full. Mr J explained 
in the letter requesting the settlement figure that he had the money in his account ready to 
pay off the loan. 
BMF provided Mr J with a settlement figure on the 17 March 2020 which Mr J paid in full on 
the 28 March 2020. Mr J complained to BMF that he was making the payment under 
protest as he considered the settlement figure was not correctly calculated. Mr J had also 
made a manual payment to cover his direct debit as BMF advised him that failure to make 
this payment may affect his credit rating. BMF later refunded this over payment.
On 1 April 2020 Mr J set out his complaints to BMF in particular about the settlement figure 
and he asked for a detailed calculation and breakdown as to how the figure had been 
calculated. Mr J said that he did not get a satisfactory response from BMF and so he 
complained to this service.
BMF investigated Mr Js concerns and it told him that the settlement figure had been 
calculated using a mathematical formula. It explained that the interest rebate on the 
agreement was correctly calculated using the formula and the interest rebate due would vary 
depending upon the point at which settlement was requested.
Mr J didnt accept this explanation and our investigator looked into Mr Js concerns. They 
didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. They thought that the settlement figure 
had been correctly calculated in line with the terms of the agreement and the overpayment 
had been refunded promptly. Although BMF had taken time to respond to Mr Js concerns 
our investigator explained that this isnt something this service can look into as complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity.    
Mr J didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the person who sold him the loan 
confirmed he explained that he only needed to pay 2 months interest. Mr J explained again 
that he had not been given a breakdown of how the settlement figure had been calculated 
and he was not told about the complex mathematical formula when he took out his 
agreement so he was only expecting to pay 2 months interest. Mr J asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr J experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint. I do understand why hes frustrated that the interest calculation hasnt 
been straightforward to work out.
My role is to assess whether I think BMF made a mistake, or treated Mr J unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and BMF 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by 
this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Mr Js loan is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Ive seen the terms and 
conditions that he signed. It appears that he may have signed these electronically which may 
explain why he cant recall signing the documents. As the loan agreement is a binding 
agreement Id expect Mr J to have read it before signing it. 
In signing the loan agreement Mr J accepted the terms and conditions. So, Im satisfied its 
fair and reasonable BMF now relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to 
contract on this basis. 
As the crux of this complaint is about how interest has been calculated up to the date Mr J 
terminated his loan agreement Ive looked carefully at what the loan agreement says about 
interest and early repayment.
On page 1 of the loan agreement, under the Financial Information section, it states:
The interest rate of 8.24% per annum which is fixed for the duration of the Agreement is 
applied to the amount of credit at the outset to calculate the total interest due.
The agreement therefore outlines in clear intelligible language that the interest due under the 
loan is calculated in advance and added to the loan as a lump sum. It follows that Im 
satisfied that Mr J was given enough information about how interest would be calculated 
under the loan agreement to enable him to decide whether this loan was right for him. So, I 
dont believe he was misled by the agreement as to how interest would accrue.
I can see that Mr Js right to repay his loan early is set out clearly in the agreement, as wed 
expect it to be. BMF isnt required to give a personal illustration regarding early repayment at 
the start of the agreement - only to confirm the option is available. The early repayment 
clause does this and clearly states:
Under section 94 of the Consumer Credit Act you can settle this Agreement in part or in full 
at any time.
Its clear Mr J believes the settlement figure BMF gave him has been calculated incorrectly. 
But the reason the amount outstanding was more than he expected is because of the way 
interest is charged on a loan of this type. And I think BMFs position on early settlement was 
made clear to him in the agreement he signed.
Our service has seen the formula BMF uses to calculate the settlement figure. I can see 
BMF shared this formula with Mr J. BMF has also tried to explain how the figure is 
calculated. I think this demonstrates BMF has tried to show how the settlement figure was 
calculated. 
I acknowledge Mr Js comments that the calculation is complex and confusing. However, the 
calculation itself is based on a statutory formula, which is set out in the relevant regulations. 
These regulations are in place to ensure borrowers dont pay all the interest due under the 
agreement when repaying their loan early.Mr J said he was told he would have to repay two months interest and his calculation of that 
is significantly less than the calculation carried out by BMF. He says that because of this he 
has been mis-sold the agreement.
The agreement Mr J signed was covered by the Early Settlement Regulations (2004) and 
although this isnt explicitly stated in the agreement the interest rebate is required to be 
calculated in line with these regulations which it has been. It does amount to 58 days of 
interest but what Mr J is unhappy about is the method used to calculate the amount due for 
those 58 days as he considers it should be calculated differently. So, I cant say that Mr J 
has been mis-sold the agreement.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded the settlement figure BMF gave 
Mr J is correct and in line with the agreement he signed and the relevant law and 
regulations. Im satisfied BMF applied the correct formula and tried its best to explain it to Mr 
J. It follows that I cant fairly conclude its done anything wrong.
The direct debit overpayment was refunded within a reasonable time frame and so I cant 
say that BMF has done anything wrong here. I do understand that it was frustrating when 
BMF didnt respond to Mr J but this service isnt able to look into complaint handling and so I 
cant comment any further on this aspect.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr J I do hope hes able to 
accept the explanations hes now been given. But based on what Ive seen Im in agreement 
with the investigator that this complaint should not be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman