DRN-4380715
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the service she received from Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Ltd under her motor policy when she notified them about hitting something whilst driving on a 
busy motorway causing her to breakdown. Plus, there was further damage to her car given 
her car was recovered by the police to a carpark overnight when someone else drove into it, 
causing more damage.
Specifically, Mrs G complained about Accrediteds failure to call her back when promised, 
the lack of any courtesy car and the fact it didnt pay for the repair of her car. 
References to Accredited include all its agents. 
What happened
Mrs G broke down on a busy motorway in August 2022. Mrs G said she thought she hit 
something on the motorway causing her car to breakdown. Her recovery agents failed to act 
fast enough in attending to her, so the police recovered her to a car park. Her car was left 
there overnight, and another car drove into her car causing further damage. 
Mrs Gs complaint was complicated by the fact that three different entities were involved in 
the situation. The providers of her recovery cover, her broker or intermediary, and her actual 
motor insurer. This particular complaint is only dealing with her motor insurer namely 
Accrediteds actions. 
Accredited said in its final response letter of 7 October 2022 that her broker has reported 
what had happened to her to it on 24 August which explained she had two incidents which 
occurred on 19 August, one on the motorway and one after the police recovered her car to 
the carpark overnight. It explained it tried to talk to her on 1 September but couldnt reach 
her, so it emailed instead. It said in that email it offered to inspect her car if she wished to 
make a claim. It said it explained it would have been two claims, one concerning the incident 
on the motorway and the other for the damage in the carpark. So, she would have to pay two 
excesses. 
It explained that it received an email from Mrs G on 9 September that she didnt feel it was 
worthwhile claiming as it would impact her No Claims Bonus (NCB). But she still thought she 
should have had a hire car. Accredited said any hire car can only be provided under the 
policy if Mrs Gs claims were capable of being paid by another driver. However, given Mrs G 
felt she hit something on the motorway, there would be no one to claim from there. And 
further given the damage which occurred to her car in the carpark, there were no details of 
who caused that damage, so again there was no one to claim from there. It explained she 
might have been entitled to a courtesy car but that would only occur if Mrs G claimed to have 
her car repaired and the courtesy car would then be provided by the garage repairing her 
car. Therefore, given she didnt want to make any claim, there was no such courtesy car 
available to her either. 
Accredited went on and said it felt it should have contacted her earlier, so it decided to pay 
her £25 compensation for its delay if she provided her bank details. 
Mrs G remained dissatisfied, so she brought this complaint to us too. The investigator didnt 
think Accredited had to do anything further. Mrs G didnt agree so her complaint was passed 
to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 November, and I said the following:
As I explained in the decision about the broker, I do want to acknowledge that Mrs G 
has been through an awful time since her car broke down in the middle of a busy 
motorway in August 2022. That in itself was very traumatic and frightening. Then the 
confusion and muddle of three separate entities effectively being involved in one 
incident was also confusing and distressing. Mrs G is elderly and does suffer health 
problems too, so she has vulnerabilities. I do understand what a tiresome and 
distressing process she has been through, and I hope now that I can get things more 
clarified for her.
I also understand that from Mrs Gs point of view she really only has one complaint. 
However, as we write legally binding decisions if the consumer accepts our outcome, 
we can only deal with one entity at a time in each decision or complaint so that the 
outcome is only against that one business. Thats the reason we had to split Mrs Gs 
complaint into three complaints. The one against the recovery provider has already 
been dealt with and Im dealing with the other two, namely one against her 
broker/intermediary and also this one against her insurer, Accredited.  
Ive carefully read Mrs Gs comments following the investigators view in this case. 
Mrs G remained of the view that her broker didnt pass on the information to 
Accredited. But as Mrs G will note in the decision against the broker, Ive found that it 
did do that just fine and its not therefore relevant to whatever Accredited did or didnt 
do.  Mrs G also said that the recovery company didnt give her the right information 
about who to contact. That decision was decided by a different ombudsman, and 
they ensured the recovery company paid some compensation to Mrs G for the 
recovery companys lack of service. So, what is relevant in this decision is what if 
anything Accredited did wrong once the broker informed it of Mrs Gs possible claim, 
given her car was recovered off the motorway and sustained further damage in the 
carpark where it was parked overnight. 
 Accrediteds duties were to act in assessing Mrs Gs car for accident-related damage 
if she wanted to make a claim. Mrs G said she thought she hit something on the road 
on the busy motorway which then caused her car to break down. Afterwards she said 
she paid to have the clutch fixed. Unfortunately, because her car was left overnight in 
a carpark after being recovered by the police from the motorway, someone else 
damaged some bodywork on her car.
So essentially Mrs G had two possible claims, one from hitting something on the road 
on the motorway and one for the bodywork damage when her car was in the carpark. 
Its highly likely that the money Mrs G spent on fixing her clutch might not be 
accident-related damage so might not have been covered under her policy. If the 
only damage was her clutch failing whilst she was on the motorway and no damage 
happened from possibly hitting something on the motorway, then its unlikely 
Accredited would have deemed this a claim that her motor policy would cover. 
However, its very likely the damage her car sustained in the carpark would have 
been a valid claim. Any claim would have meant Mrs G would have had to pay an 
excess and if she wanted to make two claims then two excesses would have been 
applied.  But unless or until Accredited inspected Mrs Gs car, all of this is just conjecture. So, 
what actually happened once Mrs G got to talk to Accredited. Ive counted up at least 
53 emails conservatively, between Mrs G and Accredited between 21 August 2022 
and 21 August 2023, so over a whole year. Thats an excessive number of emails 
over two potential claims one being what if anything Mrs G hit on the motorway which 
caused her to breakdown and the other being the fact her car was taken to a carpark 
overnight and sustained some bodywork damage. Its also over an excessive time-
period for any claim arising out of the one incident namely breaking down on the 
motorway. 
Its clear from all the emails from Mrs G that Mrs G was struggling with the fact she 
had to negotiate between three different entities sadly. Thats not necessarily any 
fault of Accredited but it seemed, with few exceptions, to ignore Mrs Gs difficulties in 
managing her claim and trying to work out what she was entitled to. Throughout this 
year of emails there were gaps and then Mrs G had to start chasing again because 
no one was answering her emails or indeed returning promised calls. She needed 
clear information about how potentially two claims would affect her future insurance 
premium and her NCD and the information she received about that was often less 
than clear. 
Whilst it might have been obvious to Accredited what Mrs G needed to do, it 
remained unclear to Mrs G. 
I dont consider this is good enough service, given Mrs G was elderly, with health 
issues and therefore vulnerable. I also consider that the delays in communication, the 
lack of returned calls, plus the lack of movement for several months at a time, caused 
Mrs G unnecessary further distress and inconvenience. Therefore, I consider 
Accredited should now pay Mrs G the sum of £300 compensation for these service 
failings in the very particular circumstances of this complaint. Thats in line with our 
stance on such issues and I consider it fair and reasonable here.
It remains that if Mrs G wants to make any claims concerning what she might have 
hit on the road plus the bodywork damage caused to her car in the carpark overnight, 
she should do so without delay. But its likely she will have to pay her excess per 
claim and since there is no other driver identifiable who caused these claims to 
happen, the claims if paid by Accredited are likely to be classed as fault claims on 
Mrs Gs insurance record and that will likely affect her premiums going forward.
Accredited didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs G felt I should have made a 
decision against an entity which is an agent of Accredited in managing any claim. It now 
transpires that some agents on behalf of Accredited are now in touch with Mrs G to assess 
the damage to her car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, Im upholding this complaint for compensation only. Ill now explain 
why.
Mrs G will now see at the top of this decision and to assuage her concerns about this that 
any reference to Accredited does now specifically include any agent it appoints to deal with 
Mrs G. For the avoidance of any doubt, it was always the case that any reference to Accredited being Mrs Gs insurer, also included any agents it authorised to deal with her 
claim to include those now named by Mrs G. 
I note that Mrs G is now in communication with these agents to include other agents who are 
assessing her claim for damage to her car. If Mrs G has any further issues with regard to the 
repair or decision to repair her car, she must first complain directly to Accredited and the 
agents and if it isnt sorted out, she can then bring that complaint to us. 
Turning to the contents of this specific complaint against Accredited as detailed in my 
provisional decision above concerning its service to her up that time, it remains my view that 
Accredited didnt provide a good enough service to Mrs G prior to the issue of my provisional 
decision in helping her sort out her possible claims. Therefore, it remains my view that it 
should pay her £300 compensation for this.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I now uphold this complaint for compensation 
only. 
I now require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to pay Mrs G the additional sum of £300 
compensation ensuring the total amount paid to her is £325. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman