DRN-1829397
 
The complaint
Miss G says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly lent to 
her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss G between      
January and July 2019. A summary of Miss Gs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 07/01/2019 20/03/2019 12 £1,000.00 £166.00
2 29/07/2019 05/01/2020 12 £1,200.00 £199.20
Miss Gs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should 
be upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had asked Miss G 
to provide that should have prompted Satsuma to do more checks. So, the adjudicator 
couldnt say Satsuma was wrong to have given these loans to Miss G.  
Miss G disagreed. She said she was struggling financially. She also says these loans 
shouldnt have been agreed because she had other outstanding debts including another 
short-term loan. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Satsumas checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware - given how she was using the credit facilities - 
that she was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving all the loans. 
It has said it asked Miss G about her employment status and she confirmed she was 
employed and had a monthly income of between £1,400 and £2,000 for each loan.
Satsuma also checked Miss Gs normal monthly living costs. Miss G declared these to be 
between £910 and £1,116 a month. Satsuma says it also searched Miss Gs credit file and it 
has provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like county 
court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. So, there 
wasnt anything in the credit report which would have made Satsuma carry out further 
checks. 
The report did identify that at loan 2, Miss G had one loan from another short-term lender but 
as it was only one loan I dont think Satsuma ought to have increased its checks before it 
lent to her again. 
Miss G borrowed and repaid loan 1 without any obvious difficulty, there was then a four-
month gap between Miss G repaying her first loan and taking out loan 2. At such an early 
stage in the relationship, I think it would have been reasonable for Satsuma to view this gap 
as an indication that Miss Gs finances had stabilised after whatever had led to her to need 
to borrow previously. So, she was very early on in her lending relationship with Satsuma. 
Even though she had to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have 
appeared affordable based on the information she declared to Satsuma. 
And there wasnt anything in the information Miss G provided at the time of loan two which 
would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to 
have relied on what Miss G gave it. 
I think all of these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been 
appropriate for Satsuma to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Satsuma did before 
lending the final loan went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to 
undertake any more in-depth checks. The information Miss G declared to Satsuma at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew about 
Miss G, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Miss G gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Satsuma has done something wrong in lending Miss G 
these loans. But even if it had done more checks, looking at the bank statements and credit 
report Miss G has provided, I dont think there was anything in the information which would 
have prompted Satsuma not to lend to her.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Miss G. Shes put time and effort into 
her complaint, but I hope my explanation will help her understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman