DRN-2653807
The complaint
Ms C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. She isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under her motor insurance policy and about the length of time it took to settle 
liability.
  
What happened
Ms C was involved in an accident coming off the motorway in April 2018 and made a claim 
to AXA. But when she was complaining to AXA about other incidents she had been involved 
in Ms C found out that the claim wasnt settled some two years later.
So she complained to AXA and then this service. AXA eventually settled the claim on a split 
liability basis. It also offered Ms C £250 compensation for the delay in dealing with the claim 
and for not keeping her up to date. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms C, but she thought AXA had acted fairly in settling 
the claim on a split liability basis. And that its offer of £250 for the delay and poor service 
was fair.
Ms C didnt agree. She maintained the accident wasnt her fault and that she should be paid 
more by way of compensation. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration with how the claim was handled and the significant delay 
in finalising liability. And that liability has been settled on a 50/50 basis. I say this as she was 
at the scene at the time of the accident and knows full well what did and didnt happen. But, 
as our investigator explained, it isnt the role of this service to decide liability as that is a 
matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way.
AXA, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows it to take over the 
settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court or settle 
a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are cautious about 
going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in 
making these decisions.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim - based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
AXA handled Ms Cs claim.
Although I accept that AXA took too long, which Ill turn to later, I dont think it did anything 
wrong in relation to settling liability. It considered Ms Cs sketch of the scene, photos and her 
verbal account holding the third party at fault. But the other side held her at fault and as 
there wasnt any independent evidence (such as independent witnesses or CCTV evidence) 
I cant say it acted unreasonably in reaching the view that the best it could settle liability was 
50/50. I say this as both drivers accounts were plausible and equally blamed each other and 
I wouldnt expect AXA to waste a lot of time and money advancing this case to court. 
Finally, all of this has affected Ms C and impacted on her premium and I agree that the 
settlement took far too long. But AXA has acknowledged this and offered to pay Ms C £250 
by way of compensation. I can understand why Ms C would like more, especially given the 
other complaints she has raised which have been considered separately and the fact that 
she had to chase AXA to settle this claim. But I think AXAs offer is fair and in line with the 
kind of award I would ordinarily make. 
It is also important to point out that this claim would have had an impact on Ms Cs claims 
history, no claims discount and risk (premium) from the time she notified the incident. As 
AXA explained each time the policy renewed it would have impacted her premium as an 
open claim and then a fault claim. In fact, even if the claim was marked as non-fault it would 
still impact Ms Cs driving history and most likely her premium. 
So despite my natural sympathy for Ms C and the position she has found herself, I dont 
think AXA acted unfairly in settling liability the way it did, and I think its offer of compensation 
is fair.  
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer to pay 
Ms C £250 compensation is fair. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman