DRN-2429426
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account despite him telling it he 
wanted it to remain open.
What happened
Mr R says he told Barclays in 2019 that he wanted his savings account to remain open when 
he received a dormancy letter from it. He says despite that Barclays closed his account 
which meant he also didnt have access to a separate account. Mr R says he didnt have 
access to his money on one account for nine months and as a result was unable to take 
advantage of a favourable exchange rate in early 2020. He would like compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has been caused and an explanation about what took place.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake and didnt keep the account open when Mr R told it that 
it should. It says its offered Mr R £200 compensation and interest of £27.19. Barclays says it 
will not offer compensation for any loss in exchange rates opportunities as Mr R could have 
accessed the money in his other account and has never made any withdrawals from the 
account in question.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays had made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. The investigator didnt think Mr R had used the account that 
was made dormant and could have used the money in the other account to take advantage 
of any favourable exchange rate. And that there wasnt any evidence that Mr R had used the 
account in the past.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays hasnt acted fairly and 
questions what would have happened if he needed access to his money. He says Barclays 
compensation offer is insulting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and 
appreciate about how strongly he feels about what took place.
There is no doubt here that Barclays made a mistake by closing Mr Rs account. I dont think 
Barclays made a mistake by telling Mr R that it was making the account dormant if it hadnt 
been used for some time. But I accept that Mr R told Barclays he wanted the account to 
remain open. I appreciate Mr Rs frustration in those circumstances and I also accept that he 
would have spent some time trying to sort matters out and didnt have access to his money 
for some time.
The issue for me to decide is if the compensation offer is fair and reasonable. I dont think 
there is evidence of Mr R suffering any real financial loss as a result of what took place and 
can see that Barclays fairly offered to pay for any call costs to it. I appreciate Mr R says he 
wanted to take advantage of favourable exchange rate in early 2020 but I think Mr R could 
have used the money in his other account which he did have access to if he wished. I also 
appreciate Mr R says what if he needed urgent access to his money?, but I think that 
suggests he didnt have such urgent need. And I can only consider what did take place and 
not what may have taken place.
Overall, I think the compensation offer £227.19 is fair and reasonable but I realise that Mr R 
may not wish to accept it. So, I will leave it to him to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. Mr Rs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman