DRN-1489089
The complaint
Miss S says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003.
What happened
Miss S bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card through an 
internet application. She said none of the terms and conditions was explained to her; she 
did not say she wanted PPI; the cost and benefits were not explained properly. She didnt 
need PPI because her parents could help her with the credit card repayments. So she 
concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Miss S added the PPI was sold during a 
telephone call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result, so I 
will explain the reasons why.
I first looked to see if Canada Square Operations made Miss S aware the policy was an 
optional product. She says she did not say she wanted PPI. However, I think Canada 
Square Operations made Miss S aware on her internet application form that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI. I say this because Ive seen the internet screenshots which 
Canada Square Operations says its consumers would have seen around the time of Miss 
Ss sale. I can see the consumer was presented with a choice to buy PPI. And Canada 
Square Operations said the application could not progress to the next web page until a 
consumer had said yes or no to PPI. So as there was a choice given to Miss S, I think the 
policy was shown as optional. I think that as Miss S chose to take PPI, she consented to 
have it added to her credit card account  although she cant now remember this.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her own decision.
I looked at the information Canada Square Operations said it gave to Miss S. I think 
the information about the cost and benefits was clear enough for her on the internet 
application. And as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover  so I dont think that any more detailed information would have 
put her off from buying PPI.
Miss S told Canada Square Operations that she had no savings and some limited 
employee benefits. She told us she had around £100 in savings, and I assume she 
would have received at least statutory sick pay from her employer. I think she had 
limited means to make her repayments, so I think the PPI could have been useful 
for her because it could have paid out for longer than and in addition to her 
employee benefits.
Miss S said she could rely on her parents to pay her credit card repayments. I do 
understand the point she is making, but there was no guarantee that she could still 
rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I think the PPI was of value 
to her.
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the exclusions would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown to be an optional product and 
Miss S consented to have it added to her credit card account. I think the information was 
probably clear enough for her to make a decision. So I am not going to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman