DRN-2846778
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours Student Loans 
is chasing her for a debt she doesnt think she should have to pay. She wants it to stop 
chasing her for the debt.
What happened
Mrs T tells us that she took out a student loan many years ago. And that this has been 
deferred ever since as her income has never exceeded the limits at which she wouldve 
been required to start repayments. She says that up until 2018 the deferments had always 
been approved and she was unaware of any arrears. She states that in November 2020 she 
was notified of owing over £6,000 in arrears. But says that shed not previously received 
correspondence about arrears. She didnt think the letters which had been sent were clear or 
that she was given sufficient time to repay the debt. Mrs T also complains that Link keeps 
referring to her by her previous name of Miss J.
Link told us that it had tried to contact Mrs T on numerous occasions. And that it had sent 
out a notice of default in October 2020.  When the required action hadnt been taken it said 
that it had sent the notice for the full repayment in November. It says its willing to consider a 
payment arrangement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Link was only responsible for the debt collection. And she felt it had sent out the required 
notices to Mrs T. She didnt think that Link had done anything wrong.
Mrs T didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs T finds herself in financial difficulties and I understand that shes very 
concerned at how this has come about.
I think its fair to say that Mrs Ts complaint consists of two elements. The debt itself and how 
its been pursued. Im only able to deal with the debt collection aspects in this complaint. Link 
(HSL) is only responsible for the administration of the account. It doesnt make any decisions 
about deferment.
I hope that Mrs T will understand when I say Ive a feeling that the issue of deferment 
mightve been better looked at first.
I say this because Mrs T is clearly upset that her applications for deferment of her loan 
werent approved. And had the loan repayments been deferred  as Mrs T thinks they 
shouldve been  the issues with the debt collection process would largely fall away.
I understand that Mrs T might be making a separate complaint about the issue of deferment. 
But she requested a decision on the other issues shes raised. And as Ive said, my decision 
doesnt directly deal with the deferment process.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mrs Ts debt arises from a student loan taken out many years ago. Student loan debts are 
unusual in that they generally only become repayable if the individual earns over a set 
amount in any financial year. And eventually after a number of years or when the individual 
reaches a specified age they can be written off.
As Mrs T doesnt dispute that the loan which Link is trying to collect relates to her I find that 
Link has done nothing wrong in contacting her about the debt and how it should be repaid.
Ill try to deal separately with the various issues that Mrs T has raised. In terms, shes upset 
that she didnt become aware of the scale of the arrears until late 2020. And didnt think Link 
had been sufficiently clear in communicating that arrears were accumulating.
Mrs T has told us that she hadnt received a number of letters which Link claims to have 
sent. This included a notice of arrears (due to a period of non-deferment) in 2017. And a 
default notice in October 2020.
I can only say that Ive seen information that Link sent these letters. I cant hold Link 
responsible if a third party mail delivery service doesnt deliver the mail.
Ive also seen notes which relate to the numerous emails that Link sent. I accept these might 
not specify arrears but they did seek contact. 
Nor do I find it unreasonable for a business to use phone calls or texts to try to establish 
contact with a customer. It would be different if the customer had specified that they didnt 
wish to receive phone calls. But I cant see that this is the case here.
Mrs T is also concerned that the default and demand letters make no reference to payment 
arrangements. And didnt give her sufficient time to pay. Whilst acknowledging what she 
says, its not the role of this service to instruct businesses as to what processes they follow.
Notices of default have to contain certain mandatory information. Which can be summarised 
as requiring the debtor to be told of the amount of debt they owe, the arrears, and what 
steps they need to take to avoid the default. The letters that Link sent appear to comply with 
the requirements. The demand letter  where the default sum hasnt been satisfied - is required to notify the 
customer of what sum is due. And what steps might be taken to recover the debt. Again I 
think that Links letters meet the requirements.
Payment arrangements can only be made once the business is aware the customer cant 
afford to pay the whole sum. And only then after its obtained details of income and 
expenditure so as to ensure that any payment arrangement is affordable and sustainable.
And not every case will be suitable for a payment arrangement. 
I wouldnt expect a business to routinely include details of possible payments arrangements 
before it knew of an individual customers circumstances.
Bearing in mind the attempts made by Link to contact Mrs T, I dont think it was wrong to 
initially demand payment in full. But I understand that its now agreed to consider a payment 
arrangement. And I hope this alleviates some of the immediate pressure upon Mrs T.
Whilst its not amongst the most pressing of the concerns expressed, I do recognise that in 
correspondence Link has been addressing Mrs T as Miss J. Which was the name she was 
known by at the start of the agreement. 
I cant see on the Link contact notes that it has recorded any request to change its records. 
Although Id have expected the correspondence relating to this complaint to have prompted 
the change to be noted by now. Id ask Link to make the required adjustment.
In summary, I dont find that Link has done anything wrong in relation to the manner in which 
its sought to collect this debt. Its sent the required notices. And upon being made aware of 
Mrs Ts financial difficulties its said its open to considering a payment arrangement. 
I understand that Mrs T will be disappointed but Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman