DRN-1010796
complaint
Mr I says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr I was sold the PPI when he took out a loan in 2000. The loan included a cost to pay for 
the PPI. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have provided a benefit in the 
event of accident, sickness, unemployment and death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Is case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has told us the sale took place during a meeting. Theres limited information available 
from the time the PPI was sold to Mr I in 2000, which isnt unusual given the sale took place 
around 19 years ago. As a result, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide us with copies of Mr Is 
actual paperwork from the time of sale. So, Ive based my findings on the information I do 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of sale.
Lloyds has provided us with a sample copy of the loan application form from the time of Mr 
Is sale. This shows the PPI would have been described as optional loan repayment 
protection and that Mr I would have been given the choice to select yes or no for the PPI. 
So, based on the limited information I do have from the time of sale,  I think its more likely 
that Lloyds made Mr I aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to 
take out.
Lloyds says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr I, and the policy seems to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He was eligible for 
cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt 
cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr I has told us he would have received six months' full pay from his employer if he was too 
unwell to work. Hes also told us he had a private healthcare policy which he could have 
relied on to help cover his loan repayments. He says this shows he didnt need the PPI.
Having thought about what Mr I has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI 
wasnt right for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mr I would have received from his employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mr I 
was ever made redundant or in the event of death.
Ive also thought about what Mr I has said about the fact that had a private healthcare policy. 
In order to determine whether this would have made a difference to the suitability of Lloyds 
recommendation, we asked Mr I to provide us with information about the policy, including the 
dates the policy was in force and the level of cover it provided. Despite our request for 
further information, Mr I didnt respond. So, based on the limited information we have about 
the Mr Is private healthcare policy, Im unable to conclude that this would have meant that 
Lloyds was wrong to recommend the PPI to him.
Mr I would have got back a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy early. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that he thought hed repay the loan early. For 
instance, it wasnt a particularly long-term loan and at the time of the sale in 2000, he didnt 
have a history of refinancing early with Lloyds. So I think the policy was still probably right for 
Mr I, and I dont think that better information about the cancellation terms wouldve stopped 
him buying it.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr I when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Lloyds recommendation was suitable. And I think Mr I could have found the cover 
useful if he ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr I, Lloyds also had to give him clear 
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Lloyds didnt give him all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mr I from buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman