DRN-3355750
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains about the wording of trusts set up as part of life assurance 
products from Zurich Assurance Ltd. The estate claims that a fault in the wording meant the 
trusts didnt work as Mr S intended when he set them up.
The estate is also unhappy that Zurich didnt provide details of life assurance policies held by 
other customers. The estate wanted these to check the terms of one of the trusts had been 
followed correctly by its trustees. 
What happened
The trust documents Ive seen date to February 2007. It appears that Mr S and some 
business partners agreed theyd take out life assurance policies. These were then passed to 
trusts, such that there was a trust for each of the businesses Mr S held shares in  three in 
total. The trust documents then set some rules about who could benefit from the trusts. And 
 in less formal language  the documents explained what the policies and trusts were trying 
to achieve.
In simple terms, if one of the shareholders in the businesses died, the money received from 
the life assurance policy covering their life would go first to the trust, then pass from there to 
the remaining shareholders of the relevant business. The intention was that those 
shareholders would then use the money to buy the shares from the deceaseds estate. 
There were a few more rules though. Only shareholders whose lives were covered by similar 
policies would be able to receive money from the trust. And if the person whose life was 
covered by the policy stopped being a shareholder in the business, the trusts funds were to 
be held for their benefit, rather than for the remaining shareholders of the business.
The three businesses  and Mr Ss involvement with them  changed over the years. Mr S 
and the shareholders for two of the businesses seem to have passed their shares to a 
parent company. Mr S was initially a shareholder of that parent company. But he seems to 
have sold those shares in 2016. He remained a shareholder in the third business. 
Mr S then died in 2017. His executor says they were expecting his estate to receive the full 
life assurance proceeds from the two trusts where Mr S was no longer a shareholder of the 
businesses that the trust documents referred to. And they had a letter relating to the third 
trust that seemed to say none of the other shareholders in that business had the similar life 
cover needed to qualify for a payment under the terms of the trust. 
But things havent happened as the estate was expecting. In September 2017, the trustees 
for the two trusts where Mr S was no longer a shareholder argued that the wording of the 
trust supported a claim for the remaining shareholders to get the money. The executor for 
Mr Ss estate took legal advice about that. The estate eventually agreed to accept half of the 
trust fund, but complains it was forced into that position because the wording of the trust 
wasnt right.
The estate has received no money from the third trust. The trustees for that trust confirmed 
this was because the other shareholders of the business linked to the trust had received the 
money. The executors have said they want to see proof that the other shareholders had the 
required life assurances in place before Mr S died, as they feel thats needed to qualify as 
beneficiaries. When the trustees wouldnt provide those details, the estate approached 
Zurich. But Zurich said they wouldnt release those details to Mr Ss estate. 
Responding to the estates complaint, Zurich felt Mr S should have done more to reassign 
the life policies when his involvement with the various businesses changed. They also noted 
that the documents from the time advised Mr S to refer the trusts to his own legal advisers to 
ensure they met his needs. And they said the intention of the trusts was clear, and would 
have been supported in court if the estate hadnt agreed a settlement with the trustees. 
The estate brought the complaint to us. Ive separately considered our jurisdiction to look at 
the complaint, and concluded we could do so. Our investigator then found that Zurich didnt 
need to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
The estate disagreed with that view, so the complaint has come to me for a formal decision. I 
noticed wed asked the estate previously for details of the legal advice it received before 
deciding to settle the dispute with the trustees. I asked again for that information, before 
making this decision. The estate hasnt provided any written evidence of the advice it 
received, but has commented that it wouldnt have been necessary to argue the point with 
the trustees, if the wording of the trust had been different. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate thats a disappointing 
result for the estate of Mr S. Ill explain how Ive reached my conclusion.
Zurichs role here was to provide the life assurance policies for Mr S. As part of that, they 
also described a scheme that would hold the policies on trust. Zurich provided paperwork 
that Mr S could reasonably have expected would do what Zurich had told him would happen, 
when a valid claim was made against the policies. 
Zurichs main responsibility was to pay the proceeds of the policies to the trustees that had 
owned them. It was then for the trustees to act in line with what had been agreed when Mr S 
gifted the policies into trust. 
I accept that the trustees have felt the wording of the trusts allowed them to do something 
other than the general language of the products said should happen. I note Zurichs 
response to the complaint felt the wording would  if tested in court  have supported the 
estate. That tells me Zurich  as the author of the trust document  feels the trustees have 
done something other than they should. 
The trustees decision to do that hasnt been tested in court. Thats because the estate 
chose instead to reach a settlement with them. I can appreciate they had their reasons for 
that. But I dont think its fair to then say the court action wouldnt have found the trust 
wording was sufficient to enable the estate to receive what it was expecting to get. 
I note the trust wording talked about the other shareholders in the businesses needing 
reciprocal life policies to be able to benefit under the policy. But by the time Mr S died, two of 
the businesses had another company as their only shareholder. A company wouldnt be able to have a life policy, as its not living. That seems like it would have supported a claim from 
the estate that the money should go to them, even with the wording issue the trustees 
thought existed. 
Im also surprised the estate seems not to have details about the advice they tried to get 
about whether to take the matter to court. That suggests there was more that the estate 
could have done to explore the details of its legal position, before deciding to settle the 
dispute with the trustees. 
Im not willing to conclude that the wording of the trust wouldnt have supported the estates 
position, if taken to court. It follows that the consequences of the estate agreeing a 
settlement with the trustees doesnt flow from a proven failing in the trust wording. So I dont 
consider Zurich responsible for the loss that the estate is claiming. 
With regard to the third trust, again Zurichs role was to pay the money from the life policy to 
the trustees. The trustees were then responsible for determining whether the rules of the 
trust had been met, when deciding who should benefit from it. I agree Zurich didnt need to 
provide evidence to the estate showing any other beneficiarys right to money from the trust. 
It was for the trustees to make, explain and defend their own decisions in that regard. 
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold these complaints. I appreciate the estate 
feels its out of pocket here. But I cant see that detriment flows from a failing by Zurich. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman