DRN-3602864
The complaint
Mr D complains about ITI Capital Limiteds administration of his investments held within a
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), after they were transferred from a business that is 
now insolvent - S. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Ds investment portfolio was transferred to ITI.
In September 2020, Mr D complained to ITI about the delay in transferring his portfolio and 
the limited access he had to manage his investments. ITI upheld his complaint and offered 
him £175 in compensation.
Mr D didnt accept this offer and brought his complaint to this service. Mr D says that ITIs 
actions have caused him stress and anxiety. In summary, his remaining concerns are:
There were problems with ITIs systems which delayed setting up access to his 
pension portfolio online and prevented him from placing deals online.
Mr Ds portfolio was transferred inaccurately; certain holdings dont reconcile with 
previous statements and records of Corporate Actions affecting his holdings are 
incomplete.
ITI administered the transfer in a way that generated fractional shareholdings which 
ITI wont allow to be sold.
ITI caused delays to Mr Ds transfer to a different SIPP provider and charged fees 
despite previously agreeing not to do so.
The proceeds from a cash offer on Mr Ds SG holding werent added to his account.
In order to resolve the complaint, Mr D wants the errors in his portfolio holdings to be 
corrected, an assurance that all transactions will be documented to provide a clear audit trail, 
and more compensation than has been offered by ITI.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, and thought it should be upheld  and didnt think 
that ITI had gone far enough in compensating Mr D.
ITI responded to the investigators view which was sent in January 2022 and asked for more 
time to consider what our investigator had said. However, despite chasing ITI for a response, 
it still hasnt responded fully.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator for much the same reasons. And given ITIs 
lack of response here, there is little to add to the investigators findings. Overall, I feel that ITI 
hasnt done enough to put things right for Mr D.
As the complaint is quite complex and contains many different issues, for clarity, I will deal 
with each matter individually to explain why.
Online access
Administrative responsibility for Mr Ds portfolio was transferred to ITI in June 2020. 
However, Mr D didnt receive instruction from ITI on how to access his portfolio online for 
some time  finally getting a brief update about online access issues in September 2020.
On receipt of the instructions, Mr D then found that the values of his portfolio were incorrect 
and was understandably reluctant to complete the onboarding process until this was 
rectified. He completed the onboarding in October 2020  but still was only able to place 
deals by telephone, and not online as he wanted. 
I consider the delay for Mr D to be able to access his pension online to be considerable. And 
I cant see that ITI sought to expedite Mr Ds repeated requests for access, or provide any 
meaningful update explaining the delay, causing frustration and stress to Mr D, which is 
clear from the correspondence between Mr D, his financial adviser and ITI. Its clear that 
some of the delay was caused by Mr Ds reluctance to complete the onboarding process 
while he considered wider issues to still be unresolved  but I dont think that was 
unreasonable.
While the £175 offered by ITI in response to this aspect of the complaint may, on its own, be 
reasonable, I think there were significant other issues that Mr D raised which were not taken 
into account. So, I intend to award further compensation, which Ill go on to explain below.
Portfolio transfer
Mr D has provided information highlighting the differing values he has found between the 
statement he received from his previous SIPP providers former Administrator, and the value 
provided to him by ITI. ITI still hasnt submitted a statement for Mr Ds portfolio or provided 
any explanation of how the discrepancy occurred.
Im aware of wider issues between former clients of Ss portfolios to ITI, so this is clearly not 
an issue that has only affected Mr D. But in absence of any evidence to the, I can only 
conclude that there were problems in the accuracy of the transfer completed by ITI. 
Fractional shares
Mr D received correspondence from his former SIPP provider, S, which indicated that the 
fractional share holdings in his portfolio had come about from ITIs request for hardship 
payments to be made from pooled client accounts, rather than from individual client 
accounts.
ITI has made it clear that it cannot sell fractional chare holdings  and that the only option 
available for removal from Mr Ds account is for him to gift these to ITI.
It is clear here that it was ITIs requests for clients assets to be administered in this was the 
cause of the fractional share holdings. And I think this decision, together with its refusal to 
allow trading of these shares, has clearly created an unfair situation for Mr D. 
Mr D was given no choice in becoming a client of ITI. So, in effect, it is holding him hostage 
to the limits which it has imposed. ITI hasnt provided any evidence, or explanation as to why it doesnt allow the sale of fractional shares (I am also aware that other providers do offer 
this option), so I cannot see how it is justified in doing so, and so I dont feel that it has 
treated Mr D fairly in this aspect of his complaint. 
SIPP transfer
Mr D requested to transfer his SIPP on 21 January 2021. ITI proceeded to sell the majority 
of his holdings on 4 February 2021  bar some illiquid holdings for which there was no 
available market. The proceeds were then transferred to Mr Ds new SIPP provider on 
22 February 2021.
ITI charged fees on these transactions to facilitate the transfer. Ive considered ITIs Terms 
of Business which state the following:
Following the Effective Date, to the extent that you instruct ITI either to transfer your cash 
and/or assets to a third party not associated with ITI prior to 23 March 2021, ITI shall not 
apply any exit fees or other transaction rates, charges or commissions on such transfers to 
you, save that ITI shall debit any stamp duty, stamp duty reserve tax or any other transaction 
tax applicable to any such transfer as required by Applicable Regulations (as defined in the 
Terms).
It took ITI a significant period of time  21 working days  before it completed Mr Ds request 
to transfer his SIPP. To my mind, this seems unnecessarily long to complete such a 
transaction. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any justification or barrier as to 
why Mr Ds request couldnt have completed and transferred to his new provider within 10 
working days of the request being made. 
Additionally, when considering what it stated within ITIs Terms of Business regarding fee 
charging, I cannot see why ITI charged Mr D transaction fees connected to his request. ITI 
was aware, prior to 23 March 2021 that Mr D has made a request to another SIPP provider 
not connected to ITI  and so it seems clear that he shouldnt have been as per ITIs own 
terms which it set out. 
So, I think that ITI hasnt treated Mr D fairly here either.
Cash offer for holding in SG
Mr D received a cash offer for one of his holdings on 17 February 2021 which he accepted 
on 18 February 2021. The payment date under offer was recorded as 31 March 2021, but as 
of June 2021, he still hadnt received the proceeds. ITI hasnt provided an explanation for 
this delay.
Its not clear what caused this delay. Its possible this was the fault of the third parties 
involved, but in the absence of any further evidence or commentary from ITI on this point, I 
dont think that ITI have treated Mr D fairly here either. 
In conclusion, based on what Ive seen, while I accept that ITI has fairly compensated Mr D 
for its initial poor service, it hasnt done so for the further and ongoing issues Mr D has 
experienced.
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ds complaint, and set out below what it should do to put things right. Putting things right
Our investigator has clearly set out to ITI what they felt it needed to do in order to put things 
right for Mr D. Having reviewed all the evidence available, I see no reason to depart from 
their recommendation  other than to formalise it as part of this, my final decision. 
Portfolio transfer
ITI needs to demonstrate Mr Ds portfolio was transferred to it correctly, with no loss of 
assets. 
So, to put this right, ITI should:
Provide Mr D with a clear portfolio statement from when it was fully transferred to ITI, 
with a clear record of how any differences are reconciled.
If there are any differences that cant be reconciled and Mr D is worse off as a result, 
ITI should calculate the difference in the number of shares or units held and pay Mr D 
the value of them at the date of settlement.
If Mr D is better off, then ITI should calculate the difference in the number of share or 
units held and deduct the value of them at the date of settlement from the loss 
calculated in the other parts of the settlement Ill explain below. If the value of the 
difference is greater than the loss calculated in the other parts of the settlement 
below, then ITI may deduct the outstanding amount from the value of any assets 
Mr D still has with ITI.
Fractional shares
Mr Ds fractional share holdings only exist because of ITIs actions and its refusal to allow 
him to sell them. This has prevented Mr D from selling and reinvesting the proceeds as he 
sees fit. 
So, to put this right, Im recommending ITI:
Purchase Mr Ds fractional share holdings from him at their market value at the date 
of settlement, and cover any costs involved in doing this.
Compare the performance of Mr Ds fractional shareholdings with that of the 
benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation and the proceeds from the purchase of
the fractional shareholdings should if possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)
Fractional 
sharesStill exist FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return IndexDate fractional 
shares were 
createdDate of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D was willing to take some risk with his pension investments.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was a close match to this benchmark. It does not 
mean that Mr D wouldve invested in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D 
could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
SIPP transfer
The delays ITI caused to the transfer of Mr Ds pension may have caused him a financial 
loss they should compensate him for. The fees they charged him in connection to the 
transfer will have certainly caused him a financial loss. So, to put this right, Im 
recommending ITI:
Obtain the notional value of Mr Ds pension from his new provider on the basis that 
it had been liquidated on 22 January 2021, then transferred and reinvested on 
4 February 2021 in the assets its currently invested in.
Subtract the current value of Mr Ds pension from this notional value. If the 
answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
Refund the fees it charged Mr D in connection with the transfer and calculate the up 
to date value of these fees had they remained invested. ITI should calculate the up 
to date value of these fees using the benchmark mentioned above, and the date the 
fees were charged and the date of settlement as the start and end dates 
respectively.
As above, these payments should if possible be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Impact of events on Mr D
These events as set out above have clearly had an impact on Mr D. This is supported both 
by the lack of meaningful response from ITI to rectify its errors, and the volume of 
correspondence both Mr D and his financial advisor entered into with ITI to try and resolve 
matters before this Services involvement.
Mr D has been clear to our service that these issues have left him feeling aggrieved and 
unfairly treated  and it is clear that the whole matter has been extremely stressful and time 
consuming for him.
It is clear that some of the issues have arisen due to the collapse of Mr Ds previous SIPP 
provider  and that this has caused the fall in value of the investments it made with his 
pension monies. Obviously, this is not the fault of ITI as it was not involved in what 
happened here  but I dont think it went far enough in mitigating the impact of these issues 
on Mr D.
ITI didnt provide timely, or meaningful updates to Mr D  and had to be repeatedly chased 
for response. And while it did offer Mr D compensation, I dont feel this was adequate given 
the impact of its actions on Mr D.
When considering everything Ive said, and the overall impact on Mr D, I have decided that 
ITI should both apologise to Mr D for its numerous errors and pay him £500 compensation, 
less any compensation it has already paid him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, ITI Capital Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman