DRN-4039393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way that AWP P&C SA has handled a medical expenses 
claim they made on a group travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C booked flights to a country Ill call A. Their airline offered a group travel 
insurance policy alongside the booking, which specifically provided cover for Covid-19. The 
group policy was underwritten by AWP. Mr and Mrs C were due to fly to A in early December 
2020 and return to the UK on 11 February 2021. They planned to stay at the home of an 
adult in A, in order to provide caring support. Mr and Mrs C flew abroad as planned.
However, unfortunately, on 14 December 2020, Mrs C began to feel unwell. To protect the 
person they were caring for, Mr and Mrs C moved into alternative accommodation. Mrs Cs 
condition deteriorated and on 25 December 2020, she sought medical attention. Both she 
and Mr C were tested for Covid-19. Both tests returned a positive result. 
A's government therefore required Mr and Mrs C to self-isolate until they received a negative 
test result. So they remained in the alternative accommodation and they say a doctor visited 
them each week to carry out further Covid-19 tests. They say that food was delivered to 
them. In the meantime, their airline cancelled their return flight on 22 January 2021. 
Ultimately, on 4 February 2021, both Mr and Mrs C tested negative for Covid-19.
It appears that Mr C began to feel unwell again on 7 February 2021. He underwent an 
abdominal ultrasound on 15 February 2021. Mr and Mrs C say that Mr C was suffering with 
long Covid; that he was prescribed medication and that he required a back brace.
In line with the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Cs representative had been in touch with AWPs 
medical assistance team. On 26 February 2021, AWP provided a guarantee of payment for 
Mr and Mrs Cs alternative accommodation until 13 March 2021. Mr and Mrs C returned to 
the UK on 14 March 2021.
Mr and Mrs C made a claim for the costs associated with their illness  including their Covid- 
19 tests, medical expenses, food and their alternative accommodation.
AWP didnt accept Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It asked them for additional information about their 
claim and it also explained that the medical costs theyd claimed for after 4 February 2021 
werent related to Covid-19. This meant those costs werent covered.
Unhappy with the way AWP had handled their claim, Mr and Mrs C asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She felt 
theyd provided enough evidence to demonstrate that theyd been quarantined between 25 
December 2020 and 4 February 2021. She noted that AWP had guaranteed payment for Mr 
and Mrs Cs alternative accommodation until 13 March 2021 and she noted that Mr C had 
said hed been suffering from long Covid and had been hospitalised. So she recommended 
that AWP should pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim, together with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think AWP had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the Covid-19 Cover Guide, and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP treated Mr 
and Mrs C fairly.
Ive first considered the Covid-19 Cover Guide, as this summarises the contract between the 
airline (the group policyholder) and AWP. Mr and Mrs C are beneficiaries of the insurance 
policy. Page four of the Guide says:
(Airlines) COVID-19 Cover does not cover everything. You should read this guide carefully 
to make sure you understand the cover being provided.
The policy provides cover for a beneficiarys emergency medical and other associated 
expenses which are incurred if they become ill with Covid-19. This says, under What you 
are covered for:
We will pay you or your Personal Representatives for the following necessary and 
unforeseen emergency expenses if you die or are taken ill during your journey due to 
contracting coronavirus.
Cover outside your home country
Up to £500,000 for reasonable fees or charges you incur for:
Treatment
medical, surgical, medication costs, hospital, nursing home or nursing services
Repatriation
your repatriation to your home country if medically necessary.
Transport and accommodation
reasonable extra transport and accommodation costs for you and any one other 
person who stays or travels with you or to you from your home country on medical 
advice.
Page seven of the Guide explains that the policy also provides cover for a beneficiarys 
quarantine or denied boarding which arise because of Covid-19. It says:
We will pay up to £3,000 in total (but no more than £1,000 for refreshments), for your part of 
necessary additional costs for personal accommodation, transport charges, refreshments, 
booking amendment fees and other travel expenses incurred.
We will provide this cover in the following necessary and unavoidable circumstances that
prevent you from travelling as planned during your journey:
You or a travelling companion are held in quarantine by order or other requirement of 
a government or public authority, based on their suspicion that you or a travelling 
companion, specifically, have been exposed to coronavirus. This does not include 
any quarantine that applies generally or broadly to some or all of a population, vessel or geographical area, or that applies based on where you are travelling to, from or 
through.
Page eight sets out the general exclusions which apply to the policy. At the top of this list, in 
bold text, the Guide says that AWP wont pay for:
Any expenses not directly caused by coronavirus.
In my view, the Covid-19 Cover Guide clearly sets out that this particular policy only provides 
cover if a policyholder contracts Covid-19. It isnt intended to replace a comprehensive travel 
insurance policy, which will generally include a number of other heads of cover. So I think
AWP has made it sufficiently clear that it will only cover claims which are caused by a policy 
beneficiary contracting Covid-19.
There is limited medical evidence available in the documentation Ive seen. What is clear 
though is that Mr and Mrs C both tested positive for Covid-19 on 25 December 2020. I say 
that because Ive seen copies of their test results and the invoices for the costs of those 
tests. Ive also seen a copy of As government regulations, which required Covid-positive 
patients to self-isolate. On Mr and Mrs Cs account, theyd already moved into alternative 
accommodation by the time they tested positive and so they self-isolated in the 
accommodation theyd moved into.
AWP said it didnt think there was evidence that Mr and Mrs C had been specifically required 
to self-isolate or that theyd needed to self-isolate up until 4 February 2021. Ive seen copies 
of stamped letters from the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of A, who worked in As Ministry of 
Health. The letters were stamped by the Ministry of Health. These letters say:
This is to certify that Mr C and Mrs C (were) in quarantine in A during the period 25 
December to 4 February 2021.
Ive considered both the Covid-19 tests results and the CMOs letters. I think this is 
persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs C were held in quarantine between 25 December 2020 
and 4 February 2021, on the orders of As government, because theyd contracted Covid-19.
As such, I find that they have a valid claim on their policy. And I currently think it would be 
fair and reasonable for AWP to consider their claim for both medical expenses and 
quarantine cover for the period 25 December 2020 until 4 February 2021.
However, I dont think I have enough information to direct AWP to pay this claim. I say that 
because it isnt clear that Mr and Mrs C have provided AWP with a copy of their 
accommodation invoice, or documentary evidence to support their claim for refreshments 
and food. Neither is it clear whether they have dual insurance under another travel insurance 
policy they hold through their bank, which may provide some cover for this claim. So I think 
its fair and reasonable for AWP to assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, to determine any liability.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs C made a second claim, following Mr C becoming ill once more. 
The evidence indicates that they remained in the alternative accommodation following the 
end of their quarantine, although it isnt entirely clear why. It also isnt entirely clear that AWP 
would have full liability for costs they decided to incur after 4 February 2021, rather than 
returning to their original accommodation.
Mr and Mrs C told AWP that Mr C had begun to suffer severe back pain after quarantine 
ended and was advised to return to the medical centre. The medical evidence on file suggests that Mr C had an abdominal ultrasound on 15 February 2021. While Mr and Mrs C 
say that he was given medication, a prescription, back brace and a diagnosis of long Covid, I 
simply havent seen any medical evidence to show me that Mr Cs medical expenses after 
this date were caused by Covid-19, as required by the Cover Guide.
However, Mr and Mrs C have provided me with a copy of an email, sent by AWPs medical 
assistance team, to the accommodation owner on 26 February 2021. This email was a 
guarantee of payment for the alternative accommodation, which says that AWP guaranteed 
to cover all costs charged by the provider for the period 7 February until 13 March 2021. This 
was after Mr and Mrs Cs quarantine had ended. So I cant discount the possibility that AWP 
had accepted that Mr and Mrs C did have a second valid claim, caused by Covid-19, 
between 7 February and 13 March 2021, despite the lack of medical evidence thats been 
provided. And even though the email was sent over a fortnight after Mr and Mrs Cs 
quarantine had ended, I think they were entitled to rely on the fact that AWP would cover any 
accommodation costs they incurred at least after the date the email was sent. I say that 
because had such a guarantee not been given, its possible they wouldve left the alternative 
accommodation on 26 February 2021, to reduce their potential losses.
So it seems to me that the fairest way forward here, in the absence of persuasive medical 
evidence or detailed claims notes from AWP, is for me to direct AWP to also consider the 
second claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions, its guarantee of payment and 
subject to the same considerations Ive referred to above. So Im currently planning to direct 
AWP to reassess the second claim too.
If Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with any settlement they receive from AWP, it would be open to 
them to make a new complaint about that issue alone to AWP directly before we may 
potentially be able to look into a new complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr and Mrs C and AWP let us know that they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs claims, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It will be for Mr and Mrs C to provide AWP with any reasonable, 
supporting evidence AWP requires in order for it to fairly assess their claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman