DRN-4005862
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in respect of a claim he 
made to it when the interior of his car was damaged by rodents. He feels it delayed the claim 
and didnt properly repair his car. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim to Admiral in January 2022. It took his car for repair but it wasnt returned 
to him until May 2022. When the car was returned Mr H wasnt happy with the standard of 
repair and felt quite a number of things hadnt been done. Following several communications 
with Admiral, as well as provision of a quote for some repairs and further inspections of the 
car, Admiral accepted work was outstanding. It paid Mr H the price in the quote and asked 
Mr H for a further quote for the remaining work outstanding. Mr H provided that.
When Admiral initially took the car away, the garage hadnt had any courtesy cars available. 
Mr H managed for a time as he had another car at home and after several weeks Admiral 
provided a hire car. Mr H was most unhappy that he was without his car for such a long time, 
whilst still having to pay tax and insurance for it. He felt he wasnt updated whilst the car was 
away, and every time he called for an update, the completion date for work was put back. He 
was frustrated too, after the car was returned and he was trying to resolve the outstanding 
repair issues, because, due to a change in business relations, Admiral couldnt answer some 
of the concerns Mr H had about the work. Over several final response letters Admiral offered 
Mr H a total of £400 compensation. 
Our Investigator felt that Admiral had caused Mr H a lot of upset over a prolonged period. He 
noted the effort Mr H had to go to in order to try and resolve matters. He felt it should pay 
Mr H a further £500 compensation. He also felt it should pay Mr H the quoted sum of £453 
for the outstanding work, plus interest.
Mr H said he was happy with that. Admiral said it couldnt agree to pay that much more 
compensation. But it would agree to an additional £250 instead. It made no comment 
regarding the cost for outstanding work.  As there was no resolution the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Admiral let Mr H down here. It is clear to me that this car meant a lot to Mr H and I can 
understand that he was worried that it was away for so long. Of course, Mr H probably 
wouldnt have been so worried if hed had reasonable and timely updates about progress of 
work. But that clearly did not happen and, instead, each time Mr H called, he not only had to 
speak to someone different, but he would be told the completion date had been put back 
again. Which all went on for months.
Then, when Mr H reasonably expected the claim was drawing to a close and his car was 
returned to him, he found the car had not been returned to him in its pre-incident condition. 
This meant he had to start trying to deal with Admiral again. And I understand that the 
process, at this time, became even more complicated as Admiral had stopped working with 
the company which had arranged and overseen the repairs. This impacted Admirals ability 
to answer Mr Hs concerns about the work. I accept that was frustrating for him  and it could 
all have been avoided if the work had been done to a good standard in the first instance.
Mr H, for a time, was also without the benefit of a courtesy car  something he was entitled 
to under the policy. He did mitigate his situation by using another car until a hire car was 
provided. But he was still caused inconvenience in the meantime. And the hire car was not 
like the car which Admiral was fixing  which Mr H was without for a prolonged period. 
I accept that was frustrating for Mr H. However, whilst I note his concerns about tax and 
insurance, it was always up to him to pay these costs, so they arent something Im minded 
to make Admiral reimburse. I do though think that Admiral should pay a further £500 
compensation. 
I appreciate that Admiral thinks £900 total compensation is too much in the circumstances 
here. But I think its in line with other awards made by the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
similar circumstances. In summary Mr H was caused a substantial amount of worry over his 
car and had to put in a lot of time and effort to try and resolve matters over many months. Im 
satisfied that is reflected by a total award of £900 compensation. So Im also satisfied that 
its fair and reasonable for me to make Admiral pay that here  with £400 having paid 
already, so the amount outstanding from the total award to be paid is £500.
I know Admiral paid Mr H £3,819 for the majority of the outstanding work to be done. And 
that he presented quotes to it for the remainder, totalling £453, in February 2023. Admiral 
has had ample opportunity to consider these and it hasnt raised any objection about them. 
This claim has gone on for a long time. I think its fair and reasonable to require Admiral to 
pay this remaining sum, plus interest.   
  
Putting things right
I require Admiral to pay Mr H:
£500 compensation, where the total compensation awarded is £900 but £400 has been 
paid already.
£453 for outstanding work, plus interest* from 2 February 2023 until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman