DRN-3670352
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly charged 
him fees and interest on his credit card when making payments to another credit provider.
What happened
Mr K holds a credit card with Tesco. In May 2022, he made payments towards a personal 
contract purchase (PCP) agreement he held with another credit provider. Following this, 
Mr K was charged both cash transaction fees, and interest on his credit card.
Mr K said it wasnt made clear that he would be charged these amounts, and expected to be 
able to make this payment interest and fee-free. So, he made a payment to the card, equal 
to the sums paid to the credit provider to clear that element of the balance, following which, 
he complained to Tesco. He said it wasnt made clear hed be charged these sums; and 
given that he cleared the amounts as soon as he realised, Tesco should refund the charges. 
Tesco responded. They explained that the categorisation of how a merchant records 
payments is agreed between the merchant and the card scheme. They also said that its 
made clear in the terms and conditions of the account that payments towards loans would be 
listed as cash  and as such, would incur interest and a cash transaction fee. They said the 
interest and fees applicable were also set out in Mr Ks monthly statements. They said theyd 
previously refunded charges to Mr K as a goodwill gesture, in relation to other unrelated 
concerns, but they werent willing to do so on this occasion, and were satisfied the charges 
had been applied correctly. But Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our 
service.  
An investigator considered the matter, but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said that the terms and conditions made it clear that the amounts in question would 
attract both a payment fee and interest, so he didnt think Tesco had done anything wrong. 
But Mr K remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks credit card has a section on page 4 titled  Fees. Under 
this, it lists the different transaction types that can be carried out on the account; and the 
associated fee that applies to that transaction. One of those is titled Cash Transaction fees, 
and it explains that a fee of 3.99% of the amount will be applied to all cash transactions. 
It then goes on to define cash transactions as: wire or international money transfers, finance 
payments such as repaying borrowing (e.g. loans and mortgages), purchasing non-sterling 
currency outside of Tesco, payments to prepaid or virtual cards, investments, share trading 
and spread betting. So, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account made it 
clear that a fee would apply if Mr K made payments to existing credit providers. 
On the same page that the fees are listed, theres also a section titled Interest in detail. This 
goes onto explain, amongst other things that We charge interest on cash withdrawal and 
cash transactions from the date the withdrawal or transaction is made. And as explained 
previously, cash transactions include finance payments such as repaying borrowing. Mr Ks 
monthly statements also set out similar information. So, overall, Im satisfied it was made 
clear to Mr K that he would be charged both interest and fees in these circumstances. 
Mr K has argued that his intention was never to be charged interest or fees on this amount, 
and had he known he would be charged in this way, he would have never used the card for 
this payment. He also doesnt think its reasonable for customers to be expected to 
remember all of the terms and conditions of the account. 
I appreciate what Mr K has said his intentions were, and I am sorry that hes found himself in 
this position. But for the reasons set out above, I remain satisfied that the fees and interest 
have been applied to Mr Ks card correctly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. And, while I accept Mr Ks point that its not reasonable to expect a customer to 
remember all of the terms of the account, that doesnt mean that both parties dont remain 
bound by them. And I am satisfied that the fees and interest applicable were set out clearly 
and prominently within those terms and conditions. 
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, I wont be asking Tesco to 
reverse these charges, as Im satisfied theyve been applied fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman