DRN-4128680
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home 
Insurance (UKI) unfairly declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W found damage in their roof space. So, they contacted UKI to make a claim. 
UKI considered the claim but declined it because they said it wasnt covered by the policy, 
as it wasnt a one-off insured event. When Mr W and Mrs W complained, UKI maintained its 
decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said based on UKIs assessors findings and Mr Ws own explanation there 
wasnt evidence to show what Mr W and Mrs W were claiming for was covered by the policy. 
He said it was reasonable for UKI to decline the claim.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have considered a range of comments and concerns raised by Mr W and Mrs W about how 
their claim was dealt with. If I dont comment on them here, it is because I dont consider it 
necessary to do so in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
For a claim to be covered, it must be an insured peril covered by the policy. Im aware Mr W 
provided a definition of an insured peril but that was a general definition, not one contained 
in the policy. The policy listed the perils it covered, which included standard perils such as 
storm, flood and fire. The policy was designed to cover the listed one-off insured events. The 
policy also listed the exclusions, which included wear and tear and any damage caused 
gradually.
Im aware when Mr W phoned UKI to register the claim, and since, he has said the damage 
to the roof space wasnt caused by a storm. He therefore seemed to object to UKI 
considering whether the damage was storm related. However, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for UKI to consider whether the claim might be covered by this peril as, in my 
view, it showed that UKI was looking into whether cover was available under the policy.
Mr W also objected to UKI sending someone to assess the damage who he said wasnt 
independent. The policy said: For any claim you must  allow us (or our appointed 
suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/ or property. It isnt unusual for an 
insurer to use an appointed supplier and the policy explained this was a possibility. 
This service would also normally say it was reasonable for an insurer to rely on its 
assessors findings. I have read the assessors report, which found there wasnt evidence to 
show the damage to the roof space was covered by the policy and identified long term 
issues with the roof space, including age-related deterioration. I havent seen any reason to 
think it was unreasonable or unfair for UKI to rely on the assessors findings for this claim.
Mr W and Mrs W have also said the damage was caused by a latent defect and should 
therefore be covered. A latent defect wasnt a one-off insured event covered by the policy. 
Mr W has also said a latent defect was the same as the definition of accidental damage. 
However, a latent defect is something that is longstanding that might only become apparent 
or cause a problem at a later date. That isnt the same as accidental damage and didnt 
meet the definition of accidental damage in the policy.
Ive also looked detail at what Mr W and Mrs W described as the cause of the damage. Mr W 
told this service On the photographs, in the roof, it can clearly be seen that there is dust & 
grit laying on the asphalt. This was the prime causation. Mr W explained how he thought 
this had happened, which was that dust laden wind in everything from gale force to mild 
wind conditions had affected the roof edge underlay by entering the roof and causing 
contamination at ridge edge roof tiles, sagging and tearing. Damage caused by dust and 
grit, including combined with varying wind conditions over time, wasnt listed as an insured 
peril under the policy terms and conditions.
Mr W also described damage caused by birds pecking moss and breaking through the roof, 
as well as expanding on his own assessment of the roof, such as the unfurling of the asphalt 
adhesion, tearing of the framework edges, discoloration of the asphalt and the sagging of the 
asphalt between the frames. I havent read anything in the policy that suggested there was 
cover available for these issues.
Ive also read Mr Ws summary of the work recently carried out to the roof. This included him 
explaining there was ample evidence of contaminated airflow ingress and that the asphalt 
sheeting had been passed in 1975.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have also said UKI should have sent claim forms. UKI has said it 
doesnt provide claim forms. Even if Mr W and Mrs W were at some point given the 
impression UKI did provide forms, Im not persuaded Mr W and Mrs W were unable to 
provide a full account of their claim.
Mr W and Mrs W have also more recently objected to some of the issues covered in the 
assessors report. This wasnt part of the complaint I am considering. Mr W and Mrs W 
would need to raise this with UKI in the first instance, so it can consider it.
Mr W and Mrs W have also said UKI hasnt offered a settlement for accidental damage to 
the kitchen ceiling. From what Ive seen, Mr W and Mrs W were told they would need to 
register this as a new claim, as it was separate to the damage reported to the roof space. It 
is for Mr W and Mrs W to decide whether they wish to do this.
Ive thought carefully about all the evidence provided by both parties. Mr W and Mrs W 
havent provided evidence of damage covered by the policy. UKIs assessor also didnt find 
evidence of damage to the roof space that was covered by the policy. So, I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman