DRN-3714912
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) only settled part of their 
claim and delayed letting them know. 
Mr and Mrs R had home insurance with esure in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer only to Mr R throughout my decision.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr R made a claim under his home insurance for an escape of water from 
his en-suite bathroom. esure appointed a surveyor to assess the damage.
In November, Mr R contacted esure because hed heard nothing since the surveyors visit. 
The surveyor then contacted him to say esure would only settle part of the claim because 
there was evidence that the leak had been ongoing for some time and Mr R hadnt mitigated 
the damage. There was also evidence of historical repairs to the same part of the house. 
esure offered a settlement of £779.15 which, after deducting the compulsory and voluntary 
excesses, left a settlement of £79.15.
Mr R complained to esure. He said the damage would cost thousands of pounds to repair so 
the settlement wasnt anywhere near enough. He also complained about the 14-week delay 
telling him the outcome of the surveyors assessment.
esure explained that its settlement offer was based on what it would likely have cost to repair 
the damage if Mr R had done something about it sooner - when he first noticed the stain on 
the ceiling below the bathroom. Because Mr R had a high policy excess, the sum payable 
after deducting the excess was much less. However, esure acknowledged its delay letting 
him know the outcome of his claim and paid £100 compensation by way of apology.
Mr R remained unhappy with the settlement offer and the compensation. He said his young 
and vulnerable family were put at risk because of the mould growth the surveyor had seen 
yet not reported to him, and because of the damaged en-suite floor.  Mr R also complained 
to esure that its agent had talked to him inappropriately when explaining the policy excess. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought esures settlement offer was fair, but he didnt think the 
compensation was enough given esures delay letting Mr R know the outcome of his claim. 
He recommended that esure increase the compensation to a total of £200.
Mr R didnt agree. He provided evidence that the policy excess had been incorrectly applied 
to the settlement, and he disputed the claim that there was evidence of an ongoing leak or 
previous repairs to the ceiling. 
esure didnt agree that an increase in compensation was warranted because Mr R didnt 
follow up on his claim during the 14-week delay.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand both parties will be disappointed, but Ive decided to uphold the complaint in 
part for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Escape of water
Theres no dispute about the escape of water itself. The issue is whether there was evidence 
of the ongoing damage before Mr R reported it to esure, which wouldve enabled him to 
mitigate the loss.
The policy states:
General terms and conditions which apply to your policy
Your duty of care
You and Your Household must:
keep Your Buildings and Contents in a good state of repair and do all You reasonably 
can to avoid any accident, theft, loss or damage
do all that You reasonably can to prevent further loss or damage arising as a result of 
an event covered by Your Policy.
If You or Your Household do not comply with any part of this condition, We have the right 
to not pay the claim.
So, its clear that Mr R had a duty to prevent the damage getting worse. 
I note that Mr R had seen staining on the kitchen ceiling but thought it was coming from the 
roof and did nothing about it. When he eventually identified a leak, it was because water 
dripped through the kitchen ceiling in the same area as the staining. esure said if Mr R had 
acted when he first saw the staining, the damage couldve been limited.
Ive looked at the photos in the surveyors report, which I understand Mr R has also seen 
now. The staining is evident on the kitchen ceiling, and I agree with esures conclusion that 
theres evidence of historical repairs. I cant say the historical repairs carry any significant 
weight for me, especially as Mr R said that the room was relatively recently converted. But 
Im satisfied that esure fairly limited its cover for the damage because Mr R couldve acted 
sooner on seeing the staining. It agreed to pay for the likely cost of repair for the damage 
when the leak first happened. I think that was a reasonable offer, so I wont be asking esure 
to increase it.Policy excess
Mr R said esure didnt apply the policy excess correctly. Ill comment briefly on this point. 
esure deducted the compulsory policy excess of £450 and the voluntary excess of £250 from 
its settlement offer. Mr R provided a copy of an email from esure confirming it had waived 
the voluntary excess because the details werent clear on his account portal. So, it seems 
the voluntary excess was valid, but esure waived it by way of apology. As esure amended 
the excess charged, theres nothing further for it to put right here. 
Delay
Theres no dispute that Mr R wasn't told the outcome of his claim. esure explained that the 
surveyor didnt send it the report and that wasn't noticed until Mr R chased progress of his 
claim. Ive noted esures comment that Mr R couldve chased the outcome sooner, and his 
explanation that he assumed the delay was due to covid-related issues.
Having considered the evidence, I find that the delay here was avoidable. While I agree Mr R 
couldve chased the report sooner, he gave a reasonable explanation for not doing so. And, 
ultimately, it was esures responsibility to ensure it kept Mr R informed of his claims 
progress. 
Compensation
The damage to Mr Rs floor was extensive, so I can understand that being unable to use his 
bathroom caused him inconvenience. esure paid £100 compensation in recognition of the 
delays. Mr R didnt think that was enough given the continued risk to his family because of 
the mould growth and unsafe floor. 
Ive thought carefully about this and I must be clear that the compensation is only to address 
the avoidable delay letting Mr R know that his claim was only partly covered. The mould 
growth he refers to was on his bathroom ceiling and unrelated to the escape of water. 
Therefore, he ought to have been aware of it even before the surveyor documented it in the 
report. I cant hold esure responsible for that.
esure didnt think the delay warranted £200 compensation and it said its offer of £100 was 
fair in the circumstances. After esure assessed Mr Rs claim, it was silent on the matter for 
14 weeks. When he chased up a response, esure accepted it had caused the delay and 
agreed to send Mr R the surveyors report. So the delay was limited to 14 weeks because Mr 
R made contact. As Ive said, it was esures responsibility to progress the claim to an 
outcome and communicate that to Mr R. Its failure to do so promptly is a shortfall in claim 
handling. I also consider esures failure to provide Mr R with a copy of the surveyors report 
when he asked for it a further shortfall.
Overall, I consider £200 a fair sum in recognition of the avoidable delays.
I understand Mr R wouldve experienced inconvenience following the leak from his 
bathroom. But I consider the peril itself was the main cause of inconvenience, and esures 
delays simply added to that. Im satisfied that esure offered a settlement in line with the 
policy, and that an increase in its compensation payment to a total of £200 is fair and 
reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint and esure Insurance Limited must:
pay a further £100 compensation, bringing the total to £200 for the avoidable delays.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman