DRN-1818455
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr M had an income protection policy with Unum. This was a group policy provided by his 
previous employer. The claim related to a period where he was still employed by this 
company and was between December 2018  September 2019. Mr Ms initial absence 
began in June 2018, but his policy was subject to a 26-week deferral period. 
Mr M said he suffered with poor mental health which affected his ability to work. He said hed 
suffered with mental health problems in the past and that hed experienced problems at work 
which ultimately led to him being signed-off by his GP. Mr M said other external factors 
made his symptoms worse, including the breakdown of his marriage and that he could not 
return to work against this backdrop. Mr M would like Unum to pay his claim for that period. 
Unum said it declined the claim because it was unable to conclude whether Mr M suffered 
with mental health problems to a degree that would have precluded him from work at that 
time. It recognised that there were life stressors that were causing him problems, but felt 
that, overall, Mr M didnt want to return to work because of on-going problems he was 
experiencing. It noted Mr Ms symptoms and said that these were reactions to events in his 
personal life and therefore, there was no cover available.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said there wasnt enough persuasive 
medical evidence to support that he suffered from an illness that would prevent him from 
doing the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation.
Mr M didnt agree. Ive summarised his key arguments below;
The investigator has been misled by Unum. Its documented that hed previously 
been diagnosed with a mental health condition which precluded him from work 
and that his illness this time should be considered in the same way;
There were several external factors which compounded his mental health 
problems including the breakdown of his marriage, losing the family home and 
moments throughout his claim where he was considered a risk to himself;
There are other final decisions made by our ombudsmen which were in favour of 
consumers whod had similar experiences to Mr M;
Medical evidence submitted by his GP and other medical professionals concluded 
that Mr M wasnt fit for work at that time. The symptoms he suffered, including 
debilitating freezing, made it impossible for him to do his job;
The terms dont explicitly say that the cause of absence cannot be related to 
events happening outside of work and;
Theres additional medical evidence from Mr Ms new psychiatrist which also 
supports his position that he was suffering from a mental illness at that time.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
largely similar to our investigators and so I dont want to repeat them all here. But there are 
some arguments I thought helpful to address and so Ill explain below. But before I do, I 
wanted to acknowledge the extremely difficult set of circumstances Mr M has experienced. I 
dont think theres any doubt about the personal difficulties Mr M has had to overcome and it 
seems like hes had to deal with so much in such a short space of time. But that does not 
mean that Unum has done anything wrong by declining his claim. Ill explain why.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest our investigator was misled by the insurer 
during her investigation. Ive thought about the reasons Mr M gave in relation to this 
and I should say that simply because she didnt think Unum had treated him unfairly 
by declining his claim, it doesnt mean she was misled. Our investigator based her 
opinion on the evidence that she found most persuasive. Her arguments were 
backed by the findings of the medical professionals involved in this case. I agree 
there were conflicting accounts about whether Mr M was able to return to work. But 
there wasnt enough persuasive medical evidence to suggest he was suffering from 
an illness thatd preclude him from work. And, for this policy to consider a claim, there 
must be evidence to support this. Mr M referred to FIT notes issued by his GP. And I 
understand the connection hes attempted to make here  but there was no clinical 
evidence during the deferred period that diagnosed Mr M with a mental illness. 
Mr M experienced problems at work and theres enough evidence to persuade me 
that was the initial reason for his absence. He fell out with his line manager and Im 
satisfied this triggered his absence in June 2018. There are medical notes to support 
this and his GP signed Mr M off work because of work-related stress. I also noted 
that initially, Mr M asked his GP for the time off rather than this being suggested as a 
medical remedy. I know thats a contentious point with Mr M, but for the purpose of 
my final decision, its an important one, particularly in the absence of a medical 
diagnosis precluding him from work. I say that because it further persuades me that 
Mr Ms initial reason for being unable to work was not strictly a medical one. And 
given this policy is designed to pay benefit to someone whos unable to work due to 
an illness, its an important point as work-related stress is not an illness and, 
therefore, not covered. 
I think its important to note that Mr M has suffered with depression in the past and I 
wanted to recognise this. His medical notes show that he was unable to work 
previously because of depression. But that does not automatically mean that this can 
be applied to further occasions of absence, which is what I think hes attempted to do 
here. I should also highlight that some of the symptoms hed suffered during the 
more recent bout of absence may be similar to those he suffered back then. But that 
too doesnt necessarily mean hes suffering with a medical illness. 
Mr M reported suffering with debilitating freezes. But having carefully considered the 
narrative around these episodes, they were linked to factors at work. And so, Im 
persuaded this was to do with work-related stress, rather than a medical problem. Mr M challenged how our investigator defined stress as he believes this is an illness. 
But, like our investigator, I dont consider stress to be an illness. And that is because 
Ive applied the definition given by the NHS which, in summary, says that stress is 
the bodys natural reaction to life events  it can even be helpful to get things done. 
Having said that, stress can develop into more serious problems and, left unchecked, 
can lead to feelings of being overwhelmed or even depression and anxiety. In Mr Ms 
case, theres no evidence to say this happened during that time and so strictly 
speaking theres no illness for Unum to consider for the purposes of this decision. 
Ive seen the most recent psychiatrists report in 2020. This report highlights some 
sensitive information about Mr Ms medical condition now and some background to 
the personal difficulties he experienced growing up. I wont go into any detail here, 
but I wanted Mr M to feel reassured that Ive given this a lot of thought. Perhaps an 
important thing to highlight is that the psychiatrist has given Mr M a diagnosis and Im 
satisfied that hes now suffering with a medical illness. But this follows an extremely 
difficult set of personal circumstances  some which have happened post-claim and 
others congruent with difficulties he experienced as a child. The other important 
factor is that Mr M is no longer employed with the same company and so it doesnt 
affect my decision.
 
I recognise the new psychiatrists comments about extending Mr Ms current 
diagnosis to cover the time of this claim, but Im not persuaded by it. I say that 
because I dont think itd be fair to apply this with the benefit of hindsight, and to 
essentially ignore the contemporaneous evidence of the medical professionals 
responsible for Mr Ms care at the initial stages of his absence. In December 2018 
the consultant psychiatrist noted;
in relation to his mental state [Mr M] did not describe a persistent depressed mood 
but he did experience episodes of what he called collapse, where he felt exhausted 
and angry. He also described sleep disturbance and a range of negative thoughts 
I think its important to acknowledge these comments as I find them to be very 
persuasive, more so than the GP simply signing Mr M off work for weeks at a time. 
Im more persuaded by the consultant psychiatrists comments because this appears 
to have been a more in-depth, focussed review of Mr Ms mental state. And his 
professional opinion was that Mr M was not suffering from a severe mental illness at 
that time. I think this is further supported by Mr Ms ability to engage in another 
occupation during the time he was absent from his main job. This second occupation 
was giving advice on cryptocurrencies, which Im persuaded would have taken a high 
degree of cognitive abilities and demonstrates that Mr Ms functional capacity was 
perhaps greater than he reported at that time.
I note the most recent psychiatrists report is conflicting with the medical evidence at the 
time, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think its persuasive enough that Mr M was 
suffering with an illness that prevented him from working during the period of absence. Im 
persuaded that Mr M did eventually suffer from a mental health condition, but this was much 
later than the original absence and not within the claim period. Its for these reasons Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman