DRN-3370934
The complaint
Mr H complains Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix), provided him with misleading information 
that led him to believe he would receive a terminal bonus on his with profits pension plan. He 
wants to be compensated for being misled into believing his pension would be greater than it 
is.
What happened
Mr Hs pension held two separately identifiable with profits pots. The first was set up in June 
1988 with a maturity date of February 2016 (Policy A). The second pot was invested in 
September 2001, also with a maturity date of February 2016 (Policy B). The maturity date 
tied in with Mr Hs normal retirement age of 65. Despite reaching normal retirement age, 
Mr H did not draw on the pension and it continued to run.
One of the with profits plans in the pension paid a terminal bonus but the other did not. 
Phoenix says, whilst there were two separate pots within Mr Hs policy, it treated the plan as 
one fund with a guarantee linked to the total fund overall. Mr H was concerned because hes 
been a policyholder for some time, and felt the approach looked inconsistent. 
After Mr Hs 65th birthday, Phoenix explained the policies were moved to a deposit-based 
fund that now accrues interest as opposed to any bonuses until the benefits are paid out.
Despite this, the statements he received in the years after his 65th birthday, still made 
reference to the potential of a bonus and failed to explain that he would not be entitled to 
this.
Mr H wrote to Phoenix to complain about its failure to pay a terminal bonus. He also set out 
his frustration around the service he had received from them.
In its final response Phoenix provided more information to Mr H on how it had determined 
what bonus would be paid. It also acknowledged its service could have been better. It 
apologised and offered £150 for the trouble it had caused to Mr H. 
Dissatisfied, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. She upheld Mr Hs complaint and awarded him 
£250 because she felt the statements sent by Phoenix after he reached 65 were confusing. 
Whilst Phoenix agreed with that outcome, Mr H did not and asked the Investigator to pass 
the case to an Ombudsman to review that assessment. 
When asking for his case to be passed to Ombudsman, Mr H did not offer any additional 
arguments or set out specifically why he disagreed with the Investigators conclusion. He did 
however state he would provide evidence around why he considered Phoenixs services 
lacking. Despite being given the opportunity to do so, Mr H did not submit any information to 
substantiate those concerns.
As part of his concerns, Mr H had also complained to Phoenix after they sent him a pension 
statement that showed an inaccurate benefit value. He then used the incorrect value with his 
IFA to help plan his retirement. Phoenix apologised to Mr H and offered him £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. That matter has now been resolved so I wont address it in my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint focused on several areas:
1. An incorrect valuation  this matter is now resolved so I wont address this any further.
2. The journey that resulted in Mr H being a Phoenix policy holder and whether he is now 
getting what he signed up to when he originally took out a Sun Alliance policy. I wont 
address this point as Mr H hasnt provided any arguments or evidence on this and its a 
different complaint point that hasnt been addressed by Phoenix or by our investigator.
3. Whether Phoenix misled Mr H in to believing he would receive a bonus.
4. Whether Phoenix communicated in a clear and fair manner.
I will address Mr Hs latter two concerns.
Each pot had its own separate policy number and was reported separately in annual 
statements. On the plan that failed to pay a terminal bonus (Policy A), Phoenixs annual 
statements that were issued to Mr H included a notice that stated:
A final bonus may be added when benefits are paid from your plan.  Please 
remember that the amount of any final bonus is not guaranteed.
The Phoenix Annual With-Profits Bonus Rate Announcement published in 2016 states:
Due to recent adverse market conditions, the level of final bonus on some funds has 
reduced which in turn is impacting maturity values. There are also a significant 
number of policies where the benefits already guaranteed are higher than the value 
of the underlying investments and for these policies, we do not add a final bonus.
In their complaint resolution letter to Mr H, Phoenix stated:
The final bonus rate for a policy with a term of 27 years which reached normal 
retirement date in February 2016 was 0%. Consequently, no final bonus was added 
to policy A at the NRD (normal retirement date).
I have seen nothing that suggests Phoenix Life ever made any warranties that a terminal 
bonus would become payable on Mr Hs original with profits fund (Policy A). Phoenix Life is 
free to determine the specific investment criteria that must be met before it is willing to apply 
a terminal bonus to a customers plan. It is not within the remit of this service to dictate when 
and how that should apply. However, in determining whether Phoenix acted reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H, I have considered the information that was in their possession at the 
time the annual statements were issued.  It seems to me that Phoenix have agreed their initial handling of Mr Hs concerns around 
why a final bonus was not payable on one of his with profits plans could have been 
explained in a better manner and so it apologised and by way of recognition issued a second 
letter explaining the reason in more detail.
Phoenix were aware in 2016 that no further annual or terminal bonuses would be applied to 
either part of the pots. Mr Hs retirement savings were then placed into a deposit fund that 
would not benefit from any regular or final bonuses. Whilst statements were issued annually 
that confirmed the addition of any bonuses were not guaranteed, by virtue of the fact 
Phoenix knew Mr H would not be entitled to any further bonuses, these were, in themselves, 
potentially misleading.  
When Mr H reached normal retirement age at 65, Phoenix should have been clearer in their 
communications with him. That would have avoided Mr H believing he may become entitled 
to something he never would. Whilst Im satisfied Mr H didnt make financial decisions in the 
expectation of receiving a bonus, I do think Phoenix caused confusion here and that should 
be acknowledged. In line with our usual approach to distress and inconvenience payments, I 
consider the £250 recommended by our investigator to be fair and reasonable.
Whilst I do agree that Phoenixs communications could have been clearer, I do not believe it 
should pay Mr H a bonus which he isnt entitled to.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Phoenix Life Limited to pay Mr H compensation of £250 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman