DRN-4060940
The complaint
Mr G complains that when he moved house Clements Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy as they said his insurers didnt cover his new address. Hes unhappy with 
how they handled the cancellation, the deductions made from his refunded premium, and the 
impact the cancellation had on his no claims bonus.
What happened
Mr G had insurance for his car arranged through Clements. In May 2022 Mr G moved house 
and contacted Clements to advise them of this. He was notified that they needed to cancel 
his policy as his insurers didnt provide cover for his new address. 
Mr Gs policy started on 17 August 2021 and was cancelled on 26 May 2022. He received a 
refund of £95.54 from Clements after theyd deducted their cancellation fee and commission 
retention fee, and the insurers had deducted their cancellation fee of £28. 
As his policy had been running for less than a year when it was cancelled, Mr G says hes 
lost out on accruing a years no claims bonus, so when he rearranged cover for his car he 
had to pay more.
Mr G raised a complaint with Clements. On 1 June 2022 Clements responded to Mr Gs 
complaint saying that the deductions made from his policy were correct and in line with his 
policy terms and conditions. And they provided referral rights to our service on 2 June 2022.
Mr G then referred his complaint to us. Our investigator considered the case and asked 
Clements to provide evidence that the insurers didnt provide cover for Mr Gs new postcode. 
Which they did.
Our investigator then provided his opinion. He partially upheld Mr Gs complaint saying that 
Clements should refund the cancellation fee deducted from the refund he received. But as 
Mr G havent been on cover for a full year, he hadnt accrued a no-claims bonus. So 
Clements didnt need to take any action about this.
Clements accepted our investigators opinion. But Mr G didnt as he said his policy didnt say 
only certain geographical areas would be covered, and if it had he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy in the first place. He remained unhappy with the deductions made from his policy. 
And said that if his policy hadnt been cancelled, hed have received one years no-claims 
bonus and the premium hes paying with his current insurer would be less.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it was disappointing for Mr G that when he moved address his policy was 
cancelled. But Clements acted on the instructions of Mr Gs insurers as they didnt cover the 
address hed moved to. Mr G has suggested that this wasnt the case, but weve seen 
evidence that the underwriters didnt cover properties in his new postcode, so Clements had 
to advise him of the cancellation.
When Mr G took out his cover through Clements his policy was based on where he was 
living at that time. The terms and conditions of the policy, under Section 11  General 
Conditions, require Mr G to advise Clements of any change in his circumstances. And say, 
We will be entitled to vary the premium and terms for the rest of the Period of insurance 
upon notification of any such change. Theres then a list of examples of changes that need 
to be reported. This includes A change of Your address or a change to where You keep the 
vehicle. 
So I think Mr G was put on notice that moving home might have an impact on his cover. 
Particularly as the terms and conditions then go on to set out the possible consequences of 
changes not being notified, such as the policy being voided or claims not being covered. 
Such a term is fairly standard for motor insurance policies. And I wouldnt expect Clements 
to have notified Mr G, when he took out his policy, of every area his insurers mightnt cover. 
That would be an unreasonable expectation, especially when at that point the situation 
hadnt arisen.
Mr Gs policy deals with cancellation on page nine. It says We may, if we have a valid 
reason, cancel this insurance at any time by sending You notice in writing to Your last known 
address. The notice will include the reason for cancellation. The list of reasons given for 
cancellation includes the making of risk based underwriting decisions.
When Mr G notified Clements of his change of address they confirmed in writing that his 
policy was being cancelled because his insurers didnt cover his new address. So Im 
satisfied they cancelled the policy correctly in line with his policy terms and conditions.
The policy says that if its cancelled by Clements, provided no claim has been made and 
there are no circumstances which are likely to give rise to a claim, theyll refund a 
proportional amount of the premium for the unexpired period of insurance, less a £50 
cancellation fee.
Following the policy cancellation Clements advised Mr G that theyd received a refund of 
£161.48 from his insurers. This was based on an annual premium of £853.81, where hed 
had cover for 283 days. From this amount Clements deducted a cancellation fee of £50 and 
commission of £15.94. So Mr G received a refund of £95.54. 
Clements have now agreed that theyre prepared to waive the £50 cancellation fee and I 
think thats fair. And theyre not responsible for any deductions made by the insurers before 
they received the refund.
Mr G also complains that due to the cancellation of his policy hes lost a years no-claims 
bonus. His policy started in August 2021 and was due to run until August 2022 but was 
cancelled in May 2022. Mr G would only have started to accrue a no-claims bonus when his 
policy had been in place for a year, and if hed made no claims during that year. 
But his policy hadnt been in place for a full year when it was cancelled. While I can 
understand why he thinks hes lost out here, he hadnt accrued any no claims bonus at the 
time the policy was cancelled. And I cant say that he would have done if the policy had 
continued to the end of the policy year. As something may have happened that would have 
led to him making a claim. So I cant say Clements have done anything wrong here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint about Clements 
Europe Limited.
And to put things right I require them to refund to Mr G the £50 cancellation fee they 
deducted from his refunded premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman