DRN-3452210
The complaint
Mrs C complains about advice she received from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) to set up an investment and then  a few years later  to put it in trust. Mrs C is 
unhappy that the investments value went down over the years. 
What happened
Mrs C set up an investment bond in 2006, following recommendations from SJP. The bond 
was invested in funds that  overall  SJP felt lined up with Mrs Cs medium attitude to risk. 
And the bond allowed Mrs C to take 5% of the amount originally invested back each year as 
a tax deferred withdrawal. 
In 2011, Mrs C added £15,000 more to the bond and put it in a discounted gift trust  again 
as recommended by SJP. This had an immediate inheritance tax benefit for Mrs Cs estate. 
But the trust also had to commit to paying some of the invested money back to Mrs C each 
year. Again, 5% of the total value invested was chosen. This was the highest percentage 
that could be taken from the bond each year while still allowing tax to be deferred. 
Beginning in 2019, Mrs C began to raise her dissatisfaction with SJP. She wasnt happy 
about the service shed been receiving from her adviser. And more generally, Mrs C felt the 
investment hadnt met her objective of keeping her capital fund intact. Mrs C thought there 
were a few reasons for this  that the fund was invested too riskily, and that too much focus 
had been put on reducing inheritance tax. 
SJP replied to the issues as they came up. They accepted some of their contact with Mrs C 
hadnt been as good as shed have liked. So they offered her a goodwill payment of £250 to 
put that right. But on the points about the value of Mrs Cs investment, SJP felt their advice 
had been reasonable given what had been discussed with Mrs C at the time. 
Unsatisfied with these responses, Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator gave 
an in-depth account of what had happened in the past. And he explained why he felt those 
details showed SJPs recommendations had met Mrs Cs objectives at the time. He noted 
her investment had made gains, though its overall value was less because of the payments 
received by Mrs C. He ultimately felt SJP had already done enough to provide a reasonable 
level of service, so he didnt feel they needed to do any more. 
Mrs C didnt agree with that finding. She said her aims when shed started the investment 
had been to leave an undiminished amount for her children when she died. She said the 
money she received was a secondary point, and she had no interest in reducing the 
inheritance tax payable. Mrs C felt the level of money she was receiving  5%  was always 
going to reduce the capital, so had been wrong to recommend. 
Mrs C also listed her dissatisfactions with the various SJP advisers who had dealt with her 
investment and complaint. She felt the £250 payment made by SJP had been 
misrepresented as being for all of her distress and inconvenience, when it had only been 
offered for one specific issue  a phone call in January 2019. 
With no agreement about how to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator  SJP dont need to 
do anything more to put this complaint right. Ill explain how Ive come to that decision. 
The investment planning reports SJP wrote in 2006 and 2011 tell me what SJP understood 
about Mrs Cs objectives and attitude to risk at the time. These are broadly in line with what 
Mrs C has said she was trying to achieve  keeping her money relatively safe, but also using 
some of it to add to her monthly income. 
Im satisfied the risk level of the investments were in line with the medium attitude to risk that 
Mrs C was assessed to have. And that level of risk suits what she now says her objectives 
were  for the investment to make enough return that its capital wouldnt be adversely 
affected by the income Mrs C received. Some risk was necessary to achieve that, but not so 
much that a large amount of the initial capital could be lost without warning. 
As our investigator noted, the investment here hasnt suffered a loss like that. Its actually 
gained in value over the years, once the withdrawals for Mrs C are factored in. So I dont see 
an issue with the investment itself. But I recognise the chosen level of withdrawals has 
created a fall in its overall value. 
Mrs C says now that the level of income should have been set lower than 5%. But if that had 
been done, her income over the years would also have been less. 
I cant see Mrs C was asking for less money from this investment, prior to raising her 
complaint. And it seems she was making use of her other wealth to gain income in other 
ways. SJPs 2011 report notes shed used some of her other funds to buy two rental 
properties  presumably to receive a rental income from them. 
So I can accept the withdrawals at 5% of the amount initially invested were reasonable to 
meet Mrs Cs income needs. Any excess was then available for Mrs C to reinvest  if she 
wanted to. And up to 2011, she could also have reduced what she withdrew, although it 
doesnt look like she chose to do that. 
From 2011, the type of trust used meant Mrs C had to receive a set amount from the 
investment regularly. Mrs C could again have reinvested that as she chose, if she didnt 
need it to support her other income. But it made a difference to the effectiveness of the trust 
as a way of reducing the inheritance tax that would apply to Mrs Cs estate later on. 
But its here that I note Mrs C has said inheritance tax wasnt a concern for her. Im a little 
surprised at that, as it doesnt quite fit with what shes said about wanting to pass money to 
her children without loss. Inheritance tax will  based on the details Ive seen  lower the 
value Mrs Cs estate is able to pass to her beneficiaries. 
But  given what Mrs C has said  I can accept that SJP didnt need to worry too much 
about the effectiveness of the trust being reduced by the size of the withdrawals being made 
for Mrs Cs benefit. The withdrawals could instead focus on what would be right for Mrs C. 
As there hadnt been any objections to the level previously set up, I find it reasonable SJP 
chose the same 5% level going forward. While it could have been reduced, I cant see Mrs C was asking for that, despite her having to add £15,000 to the investment at that time to get it 
back to its original value. 
I appreciate Mrs C is now dissatisfied with the set-up of this investment. Her options now are 
perhaps a little more limited than they were prior to 2011  given the involvement of a trust. 
But the money she continues to receive is hers, to reinvest if she doesnt want to use it. 
In any case, I find SJPs actions in 2006 and 2011  and the fees that followed as a result  
were reasonable, based on their understanding of Mrs Cs aims at the time. I dont uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint about that advice, or the investment that followed from it. 
Turning to Mrs Cs dissatisfaction about the service she received from SJP, Ive decided to 
approach that in a more general way. The issues combine to add to Mrs Cs dissatisfaction 
with the advice in 2006 and 2011. 
Ive found SJP acted reasonably though on those points. So the dissatisfaction Mrs C now 
feels doesnt fall to SJP to remedy. But the sort of problems Mrs C has described added to 
that upset. Measuring how much of an addition that makes is a matter of opinion, but I find it 
likely that if Mrs C was happier with her investment, she wouldnt have been majorly upset 
by the sort of incidents shes described. 
With that in mind, Ive considered SJPs payment of £250 compensation. I find thats suitable 
for this situation. SJPs service issues have added to a situation when Mrs C was already 
upset. But that underlying upset doesnt follow from a failing by SJP. It follows Ive decided 
they dont need to do any more than this to resolve this part of the complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman