DRN-2925917
Complaint
Mrs Z has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly changed its 
overdraft pricing structure and continued to apply interest, fees and charges to her overdraft 
when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Zs complaint and thought that Halifax hadnt treated 
her fairly and reasonably. He told Halifax that it needed to rework Mrs Zs account to remove 
the effect of all the interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from November 2018. 
Halifax accepted our adjudicators view. But Mrs Z disagreed as she didnt think Halifaxs 
resolution went far enough and she asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mrs Z is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mrs Z is unhappy with what she considers to be an unfair and substantial increase in 
Halifaxs overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved 
with. 
Mrs Z says that she wasnt notified of Halifaxs change to its overdraft charging structure and 
that she would have gone elsewhere if she had been. But I understand Halifax sent a 
general mailing to all customers about the upcoming change in August 2017. Ive seen 
sample letters confirming how the changes were explained and I have no reason to believe 
that Mrs Z wasnt sent a letter in the same way as other customers were. In any event, as 
Mrs Z continued using her overdraft even after the new pricing structure had been applied to 
her account, I cant reasonably find that further or more substantive information from Halifax 
would have led to Mrs Z acting differently and going elsewhere for her banking.   
I now turn to Halifaxs offer to settle Mrs Zs complaint. Halifax agrees that it should have 
taken corrective action to prevent Mrs Z from using her overdraft in the same way when it 
saw the extent of her indebtedness in November 2018. Mrs Z says that Halifax ought to have 
known that she was experiencing financial difficulty before November 2018 (and therefore 
taken the appropriate action) because shed been in contact to let it know this was the case 
earlier than this.
I dont know exactly what contact Mrs Z had with Halifax in 2018. But Ive had a look at the 
records Halifax has of the contact Mrs Z has had with it over the years. And I cant see any 
indication of there being a discussion about Mrs Zs overdraft in 2017 or any other time 
(other than November) in 2018. 
Mrs Z did get in contact with Halifax in 2017 to express her dissatisfaction at being sold an 
Ultimate Record Current Account. And that complaint did end up being considered by this 
service. But there isnt anything to suggest Mrs Zs overdraft was discussed at this stage. I 
accept its possible these records wont necessarily reflect every conversation Mrs Z had 
with Halifax in 2017 and 2018. However, without anything else from Mrs Z to support her 
having had the discussions shes referred to, theres simply not enough here for me to find 
that Mrs Z did tell Halifax she was struggling at the times shes referred to in this complaint. 
Notwithstanding this, Ive, in any event, also looked at whether Halifax ought to have realised 
that Mrs Z may have been in financial difficulty when it introduced its new overdraft pricing 
structure. Having considered this matter, I do think its fair to say that Mrs Z was using her 
overdraft at the time the changes came into force. However, Mrs Zs account had been in 
credit for a significant portion of 2017 and Mrs Z hadnt shown any difficulty managing her 
overdraft for some time either. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs Z wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty in November 2017. But given what Mrs Zs statements show, 
I dont think that Halifax unreasonably concluded there was a reasonable prospect of Mrs Z 
repaying her facility within a reasonable period of time. So, in these circumstances, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with applying the new overdraft 
charging structure to Mrs Zs account  at least initially. And I dont think Halifax unfairly 
charged Mrs Z in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to November 2018.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mrs Z is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, I leave it up to Mrs Z to decide whether 
she wishes to accept the offer that Halifax has made to settle her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mrs Z is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman