DRN-4357990
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) has rejected a claim she made under sections 75 
and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs L purchased a battery storage system, which was connected to her existing 
solar panel system. She paid for it using a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano, which was 
repayable over ten years, after the initial repayment was deferred for 6 months. 
In 2022, a claims management company (CMC) made a claim to Ikano on Mrs Ls behalf. 
This alleged that the supplier had told Mrs L that the battery would pay for itself, because her 
electricity bills would reduce sufficiently to offset the monthly loan repayments. The CMC 
said this was a misrepresentation and that Ikanos relationship with Mrs L was unfair on her. 
Ikano rejected the claim. Mrs L then made a complaint, which was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, since Ikano did not change its position. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened but did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mrs L remains unhappy, so Ive been asked to make a decision on her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs L was told the system would pay for itself in the way alleged. The 
only evidence of this is Mrs L recollection of what happened. But I dont find this to be 
sufficiently plausible and persuasive for me to uphold the complaint. 
At the time of the sale Mrs Ls energy bills were £59 per month (which included electricity 
and gas). She agreed to pay for the battery with a loan, which (after the first six months) 
required her to make repayments of £69.95 per month for ten years. This is more than her 
total energy bills at that time. So, there was no way that she could save enough on her 
energy bills to completely offset the loan repayments from the start  even if her bills 
immediately reduced to nothing.
Also, Mrs L has not taken any action in relation to this for around five years. This undermines 
her recollection. If her expectation immediately after the sale was that the battery would pay 
for itself from the start, then shed have realised soon after installation that it was not doing 
so, and I she wouldve taken action much sooner  such as by complaining to the company 
that sold her the battery. But there is no suggestion that she did this. Instead, she did 
nothing for around five years. 
So, I dont think there was a misrepresentation. And I have seen nothing that makes me 
think Ikanos relationship with Mrs L was unfair on her. In conclusion, I do not think that 
Ikano has done anything wrong by rejecting Mrs Ls claim and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman