DRN-1962345
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr C took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1996. Mr C paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its completely understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
time. Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Cs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr C into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr C 
here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a 
choice about PPI, and that he chose it at the time. And Mr C had already taken out a 
mortgage through Halifax without PPI just a few years before, which wouldve indicated to 
him that he didnt have to have a policy to get his secured lending.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr C, Ive assumed they did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr C was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr C had some benefits through work such as sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of those and given him more comprehensive cover  especially for when his benefits ran 
out or reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. I understand Mr C had other benefits such 
as a pension and private healthcare, but those were for very different things to PPI so Im 
afraid they werent relevant here. He also had savings, but without PPI those wouldve been 
needed to cover all his living costs  not just his mortgage  once his work benefits ran out. 
So they wouldnt have lasted that long. And the PPI meant he could effectively protect his 
savings and use them for other things. Its also worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was 
a very significant, long-term commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr C would have the 
same job stability, health situation, benefits or savings in the many years to come, and if he 
fell behind on his mortgage he couldve lost his home. So the PPI couldve really been useful 
for him in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Lastly, Mr C mentioned that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, and 
that he himself had a refund of a different policy. I understand why hes raised this. But while 
many policies were mis-sold, many were not. And different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, 
and so on. So even if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily follow that a 
different one was, too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above 
why I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman