DRN-3185876
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have closed 
its business account. 
T is represented by its director, Ms M. 
What happened
Ms M said that NatWest had closed Ts account unfairly. They alleged that her behaviour on 
the phone to a member of staff had been unacceptable. She disputed this and said that 
NatWest werent treating T or her fairly. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded, in summary, 
that NatWest had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions by closing the 
account. 
Ms M didnt agree. She hadnt been provided with a copy of what was said. However, she 
didnt feel that anyone could hear the details of what had happened and feel it was fair to 
close the account. 
As Ms M remained unhappy, the case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of Ts account say NatWest may close the account with 60 days 
notice. In this case, that was given on 5 November 2020. These dont stipulate any 
circumstance needed for this action to be taken. Ultimately, NatWest is entitled to make this 
decision as long as they act fairly and give the required notice, which I am satisfied they did 
in this case. 
NatWest have provided some reasoning behind their decision. Explaining that it was 
ultimately due to unacceptable comments made to a member of staff during a phone call in 
September 2020. However, they dont need to provide a reason and are entitled to close the 
account if they wish. 
However, I would still look to NatWest to do this fairly. Ms M has said that this caused T a lot 
of inconvenience. Having to find another bank, at the end of the year and with Covid 
impacting on staffing levels. 
I can see that NatWest did agree to extend the closure date until the middle of February 
2021 and that Ms M was able to get Ts account switched out to another bank at that time. 
Whilst I appreciate this was a difficult time to find a new bank, it was possible. I think 
NatWest acted fairly in extending the notice period as much as they did. 
Ms M has also said that NatWest shouldnt have sent the email it did on 31 December 2020. 
She said the timing in terms of the date and also being late in the day, was insensitive and 
caused her upset. NatWest has explained that they were letting her know that the closure 
deadline was being extended and they had been working until late on this. They therefore 
wanted to communicate this as soon as possible. I think that is reasonable. 
Overall, I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong and so I cant fairly or reasonably 
require it to reinstate Ts account or pay any compensation as Ms M would like. 
I know that Ms M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman