DRN-4272533
The complaint
Miss N complains that West Bromwich Building Society, trading as the West Brom, have lost 
her funds, having closed her passbook savings account without her permission.
What happened
Miss N has a West Brom savings account passbook which, when it was last updated on 28 
December 2012, showed a balance of £47,493.31.
On 18 November 2022, Miss N visited West Brom to withdraw her savings and was informed 
that the account had been closed on 11 October 2013.
Miss N is shocked and distressed and doesnt understand how her life savings have been 
lost. She says she hasnt withdrawn any funds or provided any closure instruction, and the 
account is only accessible with the passbook which she has in her possession.
Miss N complained to West Brom requesting a refund of her funds together with interest. 
West Brom said they wouldnt have closed the account if there were funds in it. They 
explained that an account can be closed without a passbook, and they no longer hold any 
information on Miss Ns savings account as more than seven years has elapsed since the 
account was closed.
Miss N complained to our service. However, our investigator said there was insufficient 
evidence to suggest that West Brom had acted improperly and, based on the limited 
information available, he was satisfied the closure of the account and the transfer of the 
balance mustve been made by Miss N.
As Miss N remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss N has concerns and questions about West Broms policy, procedures, processes and 
systems, so I should first explain that we arent the regulator of the financial services 
industry. 
Also, we dont have powers to interrogate business systems or records and it is Miss Ns 
prerogative to do a subject access request. We do though have a mandate to resolve 
complaints in an informal way, asking both parties to submit evidence and arguments.
Our role is to consider the submissions presented by both parties and, where we think a 
business hasnt acted fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should 
be done to put right any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. 
In cases where information is incomplete (as it is in this case), inconsistent or contradictory, I 
must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider 
most likely to have happened in light of the available information.
Although Miss N has submitted an appeal document, which is very helpful, the role of an 
ombudsman is to look at all details of the complaint afresh, and then make a final decision.
Having made further enquiries and considered all the information on file, Ive seen evidence 
that West Brom have completed a search of its records and systems, and Im satisfied 
theyve made reasonable attempts to find out what happened to Miss Ns funds, as Id 
expect them to do in this situation.
Due to their data retention policy and the passage of time, West Broms system search only 
shows a nil balance with an annotation saying account deleted by housekeeping process. 
West Brom explain this annotation refers to a deleted account which has been closed for 
more than seven years. Ive also seen a record that says Cheques/Transfer 17/10/2013 and 
West Brom have explained that this means they wouldve transferred the funds or issued a 
cheque to Miss N. 
Unfortunately, West Brom do not have information, including process timeframes, on the 
cheque or details as to which account the funds were transferred. I recognise Miss Ns 
frustration at the limited records West Brom hold. Also, that there is no evidence the funds 
were transferred to an account in her name or information on the procedure and process 
used in 2013.
Miss N believes that the passbook is evidence that the account is still open. But the 
passbook is not enough for me to be able to conclude that the account is still open or that 
any money remains in it. This is because the last entry on the passbook is only evidence of 
the account balance on 28 December 2012 and West Brom have explained this doesnt 
mean that the funds were not withdrawn after that date. This is because funds can be 
withdrawn and / or closed by cheque or transfer without a passbook. 
I understand Miss N thinking a fraud couldve occurred here and recognise her points about 
how, because she hadnt provided security information, it wouldnt have been possible to 
withdraw her funds without the passbook. However, again due to the passage of time and 
West Broms lack of records, account information including contact and security records are 
not available.      
I looked closely at Miss Ns submissions including a full copy of her passbook. 
Although I understand Miss Ns job means she is often away from home, considering how 
close she lives to a West Brom branch, interest was specifically added in the first year of the 
account (which is the only full year showing prior to 28 December 2012), she didnt receive 
any correspondence from West Brom (rate change mailings and yearly AGM mailing which 
West Brom say they wouldve send out) or enquire about a balance which would have been 
increasing each year, I wouldve expected her, even with a passbook account which does 
have a different engagement model, to have checked on her account in the years prior to 
2022.  
Whilst I understand this will be very disappointing news for Miss N, when considering all of 
the above, Im not persuaded that West Brom have done anything wrong here and, on 
balance of probabilities, I think it more likely that Miss N withdrew the funds in 2013. So, Im 
not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman