DRN-3810329
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) dealt with a pension 
contribution. She says Aviva returned the contribution because it didnt receive the 
necessary paperwork to apply the payment. But, Mrs H says she didnt receive Avivas 
letters chasing receipt of the outstanding requirement to accept the contribution, so she 
wants Aviva to either accept the backdated contribution or pay her a sum equivalent to the 
lost tax relief. 
What happened
On 19 March 2021 Mrs Hs financial adviser contacted Aviva enquiring about Mrs H making 
a single contribution to her pension.
On 22 March 2021 Aviva says it sent Mrs H a letter telling her that it couldnt accept any 
more money into her existing pension plan, but it could set up a new plan to run alongside 
the existing one. The letter said that, to complete the payment Mrs H needed to complete the 
enclosed application and sign the illustration.
On 26 March 2021 Mrs H made a payment to her pension which Aviva duly received. Mrs H 
didnt return the application or illustration.
Aviva says it sent Mrs H and her financial adviser letters on 6 April 2021 and 30 April 2021 
chasing the outstanding paperwork required to accept the payment. Mrs H says she didnt 
receive it. And in June 2021 Aviva returned Mrs Hs pension contribution because it hadnt 
received its requirements to apply the payment.
In June 2021 Mrs H complained to Aviva, via her financial adviser, because she was 
unhappy about the returned payment. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It sent four letters 
between July and December 2021 which broadly gave the same reason for its decision. In 
summary it said that it didnt receive a response to its two letters requesting the outstanding 
requirements to accept the payment, so it refunded the contribution in line with its process.
Dissatisfied with its response Mrs H referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and they partly upheld the complaint. In summary they 
concluded that Aviva had aimed to make both Mrs H and her financial adviser aware of what 
was required to accept her contribution, so they didnt think it was fair for Aviva to accept the 
backdated contribution. But they thought the communication from Aviva couldve been better 
 they said there were inconsistencies in both what Aviva said it needed from Mrs H and in 
how it communicated, issuing some correspondence to Mrs H direct and some to her 
adviser. 
To compensate Mrs H for the reduced level of service she ought to have expected here, they 
recommended Aviva pay Mrs H £200.
Aviva agreed with the investigators recommendation. But Mrs H disagreed. In summary she 
said she doubts Aviva sent any of the letters theyve referred to, particularly as they declined 
to send her copies despite her repeated requests. 
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, Ive decided to 
partly uphold this complaint. I think the investigator has reached a fair and reasonable 
conclusion here and theres not much more I feel I can usefully add to what Mrs H has 
already been told. Nevertheless my reasons are set out below.
Firstly I dont think it is fair that Aviva should backdate Mrs Hs pension contribution or pay 
her the foregone tax-relief on that contribution as she wants it to do. I say this because, I 
dont think Aviva has done anything substantially wrong in the way it dealt with the process 
for adding a single contribution to Mrs Hs pension. 
To accept and process Mrs Hs single pension contribution, Aviva required from her a 
completed application form (Mrs Hs existing pension couldnt accept further contributions so 
a separate plan needed to be set up) and a signed illustration. It appears from Avivas 
telephone call log it has provided that on 19 March 2021 Mrs Hs adviser was told that it only 
required one piece from them to facilitate Mrs Hs single pension contribution. But Aviva has 
provided a copy of a letter dated 22 March 2021 it says was sent to Mrs H following her 
advisers telephone call, which confirmed the position that she couldnt add to her existing 
pension policy, but that the money could be added to a new plan. To set up a new plan it 
said Mrs H needed to complete and sign the enclosed application and illustration. The copy 
of this letter shows both items attached.
On 6 April 2021 Aviva has provided a copy of a letter it says it sent to Mrs Hs adviser 
enclosing a revised illustration. I can see here that it also said the original application 
provided in the original quote could be used to proceed with the single premium.
Because Mrs H didnt return the required paperwork for her payment, Aviva says is sent a 
chaser letter to Mrs H on 30 April 2021 and it has provided a copy of this letter. Looking at 
this I can see it reminded Mrs H what she needed to complete to enable it to process her 
payment and it said that, if it didnt hear from her by 21 May 2021, her payment would be 
refunded. 
Mrs H says she didnt receive these letters. But they are addressed correctly and Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to believe Aviva didnt likely send them. And in my view the vast 
majority of correctly addressed mail is delivered safely. So taking everything into account, I 
think Aviva did likely make Mrs H aware of what it needed to process her pension 
contribution and that it took reasonable steps to obtain it from her. Because Mrs H didnt 
complete what was required, Aviva returned her pension contribution. And in the 
circumstances I dont think this was unfair. So I dont uphold this part of Mrs Hs complaint.
But, like the investigator, I think Avivas level of service with regard to how it communicated 
things to Mrs H overall, felt short of what I think was reasonable in the circumstances. 
For example I think Aviva couldve been clearer during the first contact with it about what 
paperwork was required from Mrs H to process her payment. And I think it shouldve been 
consistent with which party it communicated with. In my view, sending one thing to Mrs Hs adviser and then following it up with a letter to Mrs H direct wasnt as helpful or as clear as it 
ought to have been. And while I dont think this was a barrier to Mrs H completing what Aviva 
required to process her pension contribution, I do think Avivas level of service fell short of 
what Mrs H ought fairly and reasonably to have expected. 
So taking everything into account, I think an award of £200 to compensate Mrs H for this is 
warranted and fair in all the circumstances.    
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mrs H £200.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to partly uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I direct Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited to put thing right as above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman