DRN-1200119
The complaint
Mr M (represented by his wife) complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) 
mis-sold him three pension plans. Theyve not performed well and Mr M thinks he should be 
due compensation. This decision covers only the third policy that was sold.
Background
Mr M was sold policy 1 in July 1990 and policy 2 in August 1990. Policy 2 was setup 
following a transfer from Mr Ms Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). Policy 3 was taken 
out in December 1990 and was used to contract Mr M out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS).
More recently Mr M complained about the three policies to Phoenix. Phoenix said that the 
complaints about policy 1 and 2 had been made out of time. In relation to policy 3 Phoenix 
said that the advice to take this policy out was suitable.
Unhappy with this response Mr M raised a complaint with our service.
Our investigator looked into the sale of policy 3 but didnt think Phoenix had done anything 
wrong. She explained that Mr M met the criteria at the time for contracting out of SERPS to 
be considered beneficial. And so she didnt think Phoenix had made an error here.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy 3 was sold to Mr M in late 1990 for the purpose of contracting out of SERPS. 
At the time of advice the government had decided to allow individuals to contract-out of 
SERPS, and offered incentives to encourage them to do so. However, it gave no advice as 
to who it was expected would benefit from contracting out. So the actuaries at various 
pension providers  such as Phoenix  carried out comparisons of the projected benefits 
from SERPS with those from an alternative personal pension arrangement. 
These calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of likely 
future investment returns at the time. The rebates paid by the Government were set in such 
a way that it was more attractive for younger people to contract-out than those who were 
older. The ages where the providers advice whether to contract-out or not changed were 
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine 
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting out. 
Mr M was below the relevant pivotal age of 53 at the time of advice. In addition, Phoenix said 
Mr Ms earnings met the threshold of the lower earnings limit. Therefore, it was considered 
that Mr M circumstances were such that contracting-out could be beneficial for him. There 
was no guarantee made that Mr M would be better off. So Mr Ms circumstances were such 
that the advice to contract-out was reasonable at the time. Whether or not its worked out for 
Mr M is a separate question as the benefit of hindsight cant be used here.So I am satisfied that, given Mr Ms circumstances at the time, contracting-out of SERPS 
had a reasonable chance of being beneficial for Mr M. So I dont think this advice was 
unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman