DRN-4179969
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with how One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) has 
administered her car insurance policy. She says she informed it she had points on her 
licence, but this information wasnt passed to the insurer resulting in a claim settlement being 
reduced. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It is only possible to make certain changes to a policy through the online portal. 
These are changes such as adding business use, changing the vehicle insured, 
removing a driver, update a registration, adding a driver and changing an address. 
There is a note that says, If you need to change anything that is not listed above or 
make multiple changes please contact our live chat team. Im satisfied therefore the 
only way Mrs K could have provided information to One Call about the points on her 
licence is if she contacted by live chat or used another method of communication.
Ive looked at the access history to Mrs Ks policy which has been provided by One 
Call, this lists each time the policy has been accessed either by Mrs K or via a 
member of staff. There is no evidence that Mrs K contacted One Call by live chat or 
other means around the same time she changed her vehicle in November 2021 or 
around the time of the policy renewal in February 2022. So, Im satisfied One Call 
has not made an error here. 
It maybe Mrs K is recollecting the original quote journey she made or perhaps she 
may have looked around for different insurance to compare prices, around the time 
she bought her new car. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against One Call Insurance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman