The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc honoured a standing order payment from his 
current account which put him into an unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Mr W has a current account with HSBC with an agreed overdraft limit of £300. He also has a 
loan account after he borrowed money to fund professional study. Mr W has a monthly 
standing order from his current account to make payments against the loan.
In May 2019, HSBC paid £270 - as per the standing order - from Mr W's current account to 
the loan account. This took him over his agreed overdraft limit and he incurred charges as a 
result.
Mr W thought this was unfair and made a complaint to HSBC. He pointed out that in 
previous months any payments out of his current account which would have taken him over 
his overdraft limit had been reversed immediately and so not paid out.
HSBC refunded the  relevant charges, but didn't return the money to his current account as 
Mr W wished. Mr W wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didn't think HSBC had done anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W owes HSBC an amount of money - the remainder of his loan and the amount he's 
overdrawn. They're entitled to expect that he'll pay that money back. But they are expected 
to treat him reasonably and fairly, particularly if he's experiencing financial difficulty.
If HSBC had honoured the standing order - effectively moving Mr W's debt from one place to 
another - and the effect was that Mr W was charged fees for an unarranged overdraft which 
made him significantly worse off than if he'd continued to pay interest on his loan, I 
could understand if Mr W were frustrated and annoyed by that.
He is right to say a number of previous payments were reversed when they would have 
otherwise taken him over his overdraft limit. So, although all HSBC have done is obey an 
instruction from him - the standing order - it might ultimately have been unfair for them to put 
DRN-1158352him in a position where he was worse off because the overdraft charges were significantly 
more than the loan interest.
As it stands though, HSBC have refunded the overdraft charges. So Mr W hasn't in the end 
been disadvantaged financially. 
I'm assuming Mr W either hasn't incurred any further unarranged overdraft charges whilst 
we've been looking into the case - or that if he has, these have also been refunded. To be 
clear, if that's not the case and he has incurred more charges for being in an 
unarranged overdraft, I'd take the view that HSBC should refund them now.
One of the reasons for saying that is that Mr W has clearly been attempting to discuss his 
debts with HSBC in the hope of coming to an agreement about how he'll pay them back. It 
appears HSBC may have put that discussion on hold pending the outcome of our 
investigation. That's sensible enough, but it shouldn't be the case that Mr W is in any way 
disadvantaged because our investigation is on-going.
As I've said above, Mr W owes HSBC an amount of money, which they can rightly expect to 
get back. If they can come to a reasonable arrangement with Mr W for the repayment of that 
debt, then it is to a great extent irrelevant where the debt sits - in an overdraft or a loan 
account - as long as he's not worse off in terms of interest or charges. 
So, I'm not going to instruct HSBC to pay the £270 back into Mr W's current account, which 
is what Mr W requested. And I'm happy that, as long as all unarranged overdraft charges 
have been refunded, HSBC haven't treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably.
In fact, I can see why they said they honoured the standing order because it was in Mr W's 
best interests. It would appear there was a risk of the loan account defaulting had the £270 
not been transferred. And this would likely have led to debt recovery measures and to 
adverse information being sent to the credit reference agencies.  
I can see from the information we have on file that Mr W has completed an income and 
expenditure analysis with HSBC. I'd strongly suggest that HSBC now check with Mr W 
whether that information remains current - and if so, come to a fair and reasonable 
arrangement with Mr W for the repayment of his debt.
If Mr W is unhappy with the outcome of that process and feels the proposed repayments are 
unfair or unreasonable, he'd be entitled to make another complaint to HSBC - and then to us 
if he's not satisfied with their response. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman