DRN-2807860
The complaint
Mr G complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV didnt renew his accidental 
death insurance policy. My references to CIGNA include its agents.
 What happened
Mr G had an accidental death insurance policy through his bank for over 20 years. The 
insurer was CIGNA. The policy renewed annually.
In 2015 Mr G received a policy renewal schedule from CIGNA. He said he was unsure what 
was meant by the schedule wording cover for an insured person can now continue until the 
next renewal date after (the insured person) reaches the age of  85. Mr G said he called 
CIGNA and its call handler told him can now continue meant does continue. Mr G 
understood that meant he would be insured until he was 85 years old. 
In January 2019 CIGNA wrote to Mr G telling him it was no longer providing the policy after 
the current insurance period ended in November 2019. After a business review CIGNA had 
decided to no longer offer health insurance and it said its decision affected all its customers 
with this type of insurance. CIGNA said under the policy terms it could withdraw cover at any 
time and it had given Mr G enough notice to find alternative cover.
Mr G complained to us. He said his conversation with CIGNA was an oral variation of the 
insurance contract, confirmed by letters, that the policy would continue until he was 85 and 
he hadnt yet reached that age. He wants CIGNA to continue covering him until hes 85 
years old.
Our investigator said CIGNA had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr G disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether CIGNA acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy said:
This is an annual contract of insurance and the insurer may offer you the chance to 
renew your policy on the renewal date.
So although Mr G had the policy for many years its clear that the policy was a yearly 
contract renewable annually, not a long term contract. The policy was also clear that CIGNA 
could decide if it wanted to offer the policy for annual renewal.
CIGNA didnt have to renew the policy each year and the policy terms set out when CIGNA 
might not offer renewal:
This is an annual contract of insurance and we may offer you the chance to renew 
your policy on the renewal date each year. We may not offer renewal in the event of:
 any actual or predicted new or amended legal or regulatory requirement;
 an actual or projected unforeseen increase in claims under all policies of the same  
type issued by us; or
 an event that prevents us from continuing to provide, or Cigna Insurance Services 
continuing to administer, your policy. 
CIGNA made the commercial decision to withdraw from the health insurance market, an 
event that prevented it from continuing to provide the policy. Withdrawal from the market is a 
business decision for CIGNA to make and we cant say that an insurer must provide a 
certain type of policy. Due to the business decision CIGNA didnt offer to renew the policy to 
Mr G, or any of its other policyholders, and under the policy terms it didnt have to offer to 
renew the policy. 
Mr G says that even if the policy was issued on an annual renewable basis his conversation  
with CIGNA around 2015 was an oral variation of the contract.
A recording of the call between Mr G and CIGNA isnt available. Given the call was around 
2015 the unavailability is reasonable. I dont know exactly what was said in the call but Mr G 
says his call was prompted by the wording of the 2015 insurance schedule and he was told 
cover would continue until he was 85 years old.
The full wording of the insurance schedule paragraph Mr Gs referred to is:
cover for an insured person can now continue until the next renewal date after (the 
insured person) reaches the age of 85. Subject otherwise to the terms stated in your 
policy wording. 
So the information which prompted Mr G to call CIGNA was clear that the cover continuing 
to the next renewal date after he reached  85 years old was subject to the other policy terms. 
The cover was still subject to CIGNA offering to renew the annual policy and if it didnt offer 
the cover wouldnt renew.
I think its probable that CIGNAs call handler did tell Mr G there was cover until he was 85 
years old because that was the correct information at the time. As CIGNA later told Mr G, its 
call handler wouldnt have known that several years later it was going to leave the insurance 
market for that type of policy.   
It also may well be that in the call CIGNAs call handler did tell Mr G cover until he was 85 
years old was subject to the other policy terms, particularly as the wording Mr G called about 
said the cover was subject to the other terms. But even if that wasnt made clear in the call 
I dont think Mr G could reasonably understand his call with CIGNA had made a binding oral 
variation to the insurance contract so that it was no longer an annual contract. As Ive said, 
CIGNA had provided him with clear written information that the policy was an annual policy, 
renewable each year if it offered to renew. Ive seen no evidence to support Mr Gs 
suggestion that CIGNA sent him written information which led him to reasonably believe 
otherwise.I think CIGNA acted fairly when not offering to renew Mr Gs policy. It gave Mr G reasonable 
notice by writing to him in January 2019 to say it wouldnt be offering to renew the policy in 
November 2019 and reminded him in October 2019. It also told Mr G the policy would be 
valid until its annual end date and its withdrawal from the market wouldnt affect any valid 
current claims. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman