DRN-3026548
The complaint
Mr D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
account in 2008. In 2014 this account was changed to a fee free account with an optional 
Insurance aspect package.
Mr D says that he was not made aware that there was a monthly fee for the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advance account 
had been mis-sold. Mr D disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Mr D.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but Id like to assure him that I have 
considered everything he has provided and said. I think it would be helpful to explain, that 
where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as they are here, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. There is also very 
little information that HSBC has been able to provide from the time of sale, which is 
unsurprising given the timescales involved. 
Ive started by considering whether or not Mr D was given a fair choice in opening his 
account. In this case, I can see that Mr D already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to 
opening the Advance account  so I think he was aware that fee-free accounts existed and 
were an option for him. Mr D has also not explained what he was told that wouldve made 
him think that he had to upgrade his account.
So I think it likely that Mr D was aware that the account was optional and he agreed to it 
knowing that he did not have to have it, if he did not wish to do so.
Mr D says he was not made aware that there were charges for the account. Whereas HSBC 
says that the account fees wouldve been explained to Mr D during the sale. I think that it is 
more likely than not that the account fee wouldve been mentioned during the sales process. 
Had it not been, given the amount of documentation issued post sale that states that there is 
a monthly fee for the account, I wouldve expected Mr D to query this much earlier than he 
did and downgrade his account, if he did not wish to pay this fee.
I also can see that there are records of Mr D speaking to HSBC about his account in 2009 
and whilst there are no records of what was discussed, it seems that the monthly account 
fee was reduced for six months after this call. This suggests that the fee was mentioned 
during this call and an offer was made to reduce it and this did not lead Mr D to revert to a 
fee free account. This seems to indicate that he was happy to pay the fee for the benefits 
that were being offered, as he did not downgrade his account either straight away or after 
the six-month reduction ended. So even were he not told about the fee during the sales 
process, though to make it clear I think it would have been mentioned, I dont think this 
wouldve altered his decision to take out the account. 
Furthermore, in 2014, HSBC wrote to Mr D about changes that were being made to his 
account. Mr D was given the option to not accept the changes and to remove the fee-paying 
package from his account  but he didnt remove the fee-paying package from this account.
I also note that there is evidence that Mr D travelled overseas around the time of the account 
upgrade. Given that one of the features of the account was travel insurance and fee free 
overseas cash withdrawals, it suggests that this was possibly why the account was taken 
out. So when taking everything that I have seen on this case into account, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr D agreed to the Advance account. And this was likely because he was 
attracted (at least initially) to the features it offered, rather than because he felt he had no 
choice. 
My understanding of HSBCs sales process at the time the account was taken out was that it 
did not make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for a 
customer. It did though have to give Mr D enough information to allow him to do this himself. 
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Mr D all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But I think the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific about the benefits of the account 
that Mr D may not have been told that wouldve likely altered his decision to take out the 
account.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr D may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money, and he may now regret opening a fee-paying account. I also 
note that over the years the benefits have changed and now include benefits that he does 
not need.
But overall, Ive not seen enough for me to say that he was mis-sold the Advance account in 
the first instance. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the 
fees Mr D has paid for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman