DRN-1423285
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Miss C took out a mortgage with Santander in May 1981 and at the same time purchased a 
PPI policy.
Miss C has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold but Santander didn't uphold her 
complaint. 
Santander also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on 
the premiums and said that the mortgage Miss C took out didn't fall within the rules and 
guidance introduced about this. Therefore, no refund for excess commission was due.
Miss C wasnt happy with Santander response so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Miss C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Miss C has sent some lengthy correspondence explaining why she considers the PPI was 
mis-sold. I have read in full everything Miss C has provided and tried to address most of her 
points in my decision. Although I have may not specifically refer to every point, I have read 
and taken account of all the information and evidence provided.  
Although the mortgage and PPI sale were taken out with a differently named business that 
 has changed over time, Santander has accepted responsibility for the sale. So I shall only 
refer to Santander throughout my decision. 
This sale took place almost 40 years ago and Santander has very limited information about 
Miss Cs specific sale. But processes were in place when dealing with mortgage applications 
and the related sale of insurance products at the time. I note Miss C says she never met or 
spoke to Santander directly and therefore cannot see how a sale could have taken place.
However a face to face meeting is not required to obtain a mortgage or buy an insurance 
product, this can be done through a range of methods. If a policy is purchased, then a sale process has taken place. And if Miss C applied for her mortgage with assistance from a third 
party as she indicates, then she would still have had to see and sign documents both for her 
mortgage and to take out the PPI policy. 
Whilst Santander cannot provide the actual copies of the documents completed at the time 
of sale by Miss C, it has provided some sample documents. These show that separate 
application forms were required to be completed, signed and returned for the mortgage and 
for the PPI. On both Miss C would have been required to sign to say she confirmed the 
contents were accurate and she wanted to take out the relevant product.
As I have said this all happened a long time ago, and memories can fade over time. I think 
as separate forms were needed to be completed and signed Miss C was most likely aware 
she was applying for the PPI. After the mortgage and PPI sale were completed, Miss C 
would have been sent to her home address confirmation of the policy and a copy of the 
terms and conditions. Also she would have been sent to her personally, an annual mortgage 
statement. As the PPI was on an annual renewal, this would also have been indicated at the 
same time each year.
Taking all these factors into account I think Miss C should have been aware she had taken 
out a PPI policy and that she had a choice in doing so. The nature of the policy was that if 
she had not wanted it, it could have been cancelled at any time. So I think Miss C chose to 
take out the policy at the time.
Accepting that Miss C did not herself speak to anyone at Santander, and with little 
information available about the actual point of sale, it is possible full information about the 
policy may not have been clearly provided. So I have considered the information Miss C has 
provided about her circumstances at the time of sale to see if she would have been affected 
by any of the terms and conditions and any restrictions on the policy.
In her initial complaint form Miss C told us she had been employed for five years with the 
same employer. She couldn't recall if she would have received any sick pay but indicated for 
her role it would not have been substantial and suggested less than three months. 
Miss C also told us she had no other means of making her mortgage repayments with no 
other private means or savings other than the equity in the property she had bought. She 
also said she had no pre-existing medical conditions.
Based on what Ive been told about Miss Cs circumstances at the time I think she was 
eligible to take out the policy. And it doesn't look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example unusual employment conditions of 
having any medical conditions she already knew about. So I think the PPI would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong.
Miss Cs employer may have paid some sick pay if she was unwell. She has said this may 
have been for up to 3 months. But the PPI wouldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick 
pay, meaning Miss C could have used her sick pay for other household expenses at what 
could have been a difficult time. Also, as Miss C says she had no other savings at the time 
she would have found it beneficial to have her mortgage paid.
Miss C paid around £4.15 every month to provide a monthly benefit of £316.45, which would 
have covered her mortgage payment. The cost and benefit should have been set out at the 
time. But even if Miss C had not been clear about the monthly cost it was reasonable, when 
considered in light of the benefit that could have been paid for a claim. And it would seem to 
have been affordable. Its possible the information Santander gave Miss C about the PPI was not as clear as it 
should have been. But I think Miss C chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover at the time and would have found it useful if she had needed to claim. 
I can see that Miss C has in later correspondence indicated that her job was secure, and as 
she stayed many years in the same employment, she did not need the PPI. She has also 
provided information about a number of other mortgages she had, mostly at later times, and 
said she had no PPI with these.
What happened to Miss C with other lenders and later in her employment are not relevant to 
the whether the PPI sold with this particular mortgage, taken out in 1981, was mis-sold. It is 
only the circumstances that applied at the time she took out this PPI policy, and what is most 
likely to have happened based on any information available about this particular sale, that 
are relevant. 
So taking everything into account, even if the information provided at the time was not as 
clear and full as it couldve been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss C off taking out the cover. I think it was something she chose to take out and could 
have found beneficial.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Santander. 
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by Santander. However, the type of mortgage Miss C 
took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Miss C by 
Santander UK Plc and Im not upholding this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman