DRN-3460371
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he didnt receive car insurance policy documents from the broker 
ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet Car Insurance (Atlanta). 
He also complained about an increase in premium that was applied to his policy and a 
cancellation fee by Atlanta. 
What happened
Mr P bought a car insurance policy online through a price comparison website. Atlanta as a 
broker sold the policy to Mr P.
Mr P bought the policy on 16 November 2021 with a start date of 20 November 2021. 
Atlanta tried to send Mr P his policy documents by email but it bounced back from the 
address. So on 17 November 2021 Atlanta sent Mr P his policy documents by post.
On 18 November 2021 Atlanta contacted Mr P. It told him the insurer of the policy had 
carried out a check on a central underwriting database and found Mr P hadnt disclosed a 
claim. 
Mr P spoke with Atlanta on 20 November 2021. He said he hadnt received his policy 
documents. Atlanta said it had sent the documents by post. It explained that due to the 
undisclosed claim the insurer of the policy had increased the premium. Mr P didnt want to 
pay the extra premium so he cancelled the policy. Atlanta charged Mr P a £25 cancellation 
fee. 
Mr P complained to Atlanta. He said he didnt receive the policy documents. He was 
unhappy with the premium increase and the cancellation fee it applied. Mr P said hed had to 
spend time looking for alternative car insurance which cost him an extra £40. He wanted 
Atlanta to reimburse him for the £40 and pay him £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Atlanta upheld Mr Ps complaint in part. It said its policy documents didnt disclose its £25 
cancellation fee. So it refunded this to Mr P. But it didnt uphold the rest of Mr Ps complaint. 
It said the premium increase was correctly applied by the insurer. And it had correctly sent 
the policy documents to Mr P by post when it wasnt possible by email. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says the undisclosed claim was closed and there were no claim costs. 
He says his previous insurer did charge him an additional premium  but then refunded the 
difference after receiving a letter from the insurer that dealt with the claim in 2020. Mr P has 
provided us with a copy of the letter from the insurer that dealt with the claim. He says he still 
hasnt received the policy documents.
Mr P wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think any of the actions taken by Atlanta were unreasonable. Ill explain why. 
Atlanta has shown that the email address it used  provided by Mr P  returned when it tried 
to send Mr Ps policy documents to him. And its notes show that it sent the policy documents 
by post to Mr Ps address a day later. I understand Mr P says he never received the policy 
documents by post. But Im reasonably satisfied Atlanta sent them and so I cant hold it 
responsible for any postal issues. 
It isnt unusual or unreasonable for an insurer to carry out checks to see if a customer has 
provided the correct claims history. The insurer discovered that Mr P failed to disclose a 
claim from 2020. 
How the claim has been recorded on the central database is determined by the insurer that 
dealt with the claim. How another insurer decides the premium it would charge or refund to 
Mr P based on his claims history isnt something I can consider here. Atlanta as the broker 
isnt responsible for an insurer or underwriters decision to charge an additional premium for 
an undisclosed incident or claim. If Mr P doesnt agree with the insurers decision to charge 
an extra premium for the claim, he will need to raise a separate complaint against the 
insurer. 
Atlanta informed Mr P promptly of the insurers discovery and passed on the premium 
increase. I dont think Atlanta in its role as a broker did anything wrong here. 
Mr P didnt want to pay the increased premium and so he cancelled the policy. This was Mr 
Ps choice to make and I understand his reason for doing this. But this doesnt mean that 
Atlanta is therefore responsible for the time Mr P needed to take to arrange alternative 
insurance  or for any increase in premium as a result. The reason why the premium was 
recalculated was due to Mr P not disclosing a claim. So I dont think Atlanta owes Mr P 
compensation as I dont think it caused him any inconvenience. 
Atlanta kept £25 from the premium refund it made on cancellation as a cancellation fee. In its 
response to Mr Ps complaint on 22 November 2021, it agreed it shouldnt have done this 
and arranged for the £25 to be refunded back to Mr Ps card. I think it did enough to put 
things right and promptly. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed. But I dont think Atlanta needs to do any more to 
resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman