DRN-3159506
The complaint
Mr C complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
Mr C was given a single loan by TFS. He borrowed £7,500 in October 2014 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. Mr C appears to have faced 
some problems repaying the loan however it was ultimately repaid in June 2017.
TFS gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had used credit in 
the past.
Mr C was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results from TFSs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
Mr C told TFS that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate some other debts. In 
particular he told TFS about another loan hed taken out around six months before, 
and two credit card accounts. TFS saw those three accounts on Mr Cs credit report. 
In total, consolidating those three debts would account for almost £5,000 of the 
money that Mr C asked to borrow. I think it was reasonable for TFS to rely on how 
Mr C said he intended to use the loan, and so discount those debts when looking at 
whether the loan was sustainably affordable.
 
But Mr Cs credit file also showed a number of other problems that I think TFS 
needed to consider carefully before it agreed to lend to him. Mr C had a number of 
defaulted accounts that remained unpaid. But the majority of those problems 
happened some years earlier. Whilst it is true that, in general, consumers who have 
faced problems managing their money in the past are more likely to face problems in 
the future, I dont think those debts alone were a reason for TFS to decline Mr Cs 
loan application.
The credit check also showed that Mr C had made heavy use of payday loans in the 
first half of 2014. It showed that he had taken, and successfully repaid, at least seven 
loans of this nature in the first half of the year. I think that should have caused 
concerns to TFS about how Mr C was managing his money. But, it had been three 
months since Mr C had last taken borrowing of this nature. I think that might have 
mitigated the concerns that TFS held  suggesting that Mr C had successfully broken 
out of a cycle of short-term lending.
Consolidating his debts would leave Mr C with around £2,500 of the loan proceeds. 
He initially told TFS that he would use that money towards a deposit when he moved 
in with his partner. I think that would have been a concerning situation  when TFS 
assessed Mr Cs expenditure he had said he lived at home with his parents and paid 
nothing towards rent or household bills. So his financial situation would be much 
worse if he later took on those costs. But later in the application process Mr C said 
that he had put his plans to move in with his partner on hold for at least a year  and 
that he would now spend the remaining loan proceeds on a holiday instead. So that 
too might have reassured TFS that Mr Cs expenditure was likely to remain stable for 
the foreseeable time.
When Mr C described his disposable income it showed that he would be able to 
afford the loan repayments comfortably. In fact, by consolidating his debts, it is likely 
that he would have reduced what he was paying each month on his credit 
repayments. So I think it was fair for TFS to agree to lend to Mr C without doing more 
checks than it did. I currently think it was reasonable for TFS to give this loan to 
Mr C.
It is true that Mr Cs financial situation was far more complicated than he had 
described to TFS, or than had been shown by the results of the checks the lender 
performed. He has provided us with copies of his bank statements from the time that 
show evidence of additional short-term borrowing that wasnt shown on TFSs 
checks. And it appears that Mr C was using his borrowing to support considerable 
amounts of spending on online gambling transactions.
There is no doubt that, had it been aware of the true state of Mr Cs finances, I would 
have considered it irresponsible for TFS to have given him this loan. But Mr C didnt 
explain these problems to TFS, and nor were they shown by what I consider to be 
proportionate checks. I dont think that the results of TFSs checks should reasonably 
have led the lender to seek further, and more detailed, information about Mr Cs 
finances. So whilst I understand how disappointing this decision will be for Mr C, 
I dont currently think his complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. TFS has said that it has nothing further to add and is happy with my 
decision. Mr C has provided, across a number of submissions, some further comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr C has said, I can reassure him that I have 
read each of his responses carefully.
Mr C has highlighted the relevant regulations contained in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) issued by the regulator. In particular he says CONC provides examples of scenarios 
that might show a consumer is facing financial difficulty. He thinks that a number of those 
examples apply to his situation and should have highlighted to TFS that he was facing 
problems managing his money.Mr C points out that TFS needed to ensure that he could repay the loan over its entire 
four-year duration. So he says his comments about when he might move out of his parents 
home should have alerted TFS to potential problems in the future. He says that the number 
of other credit accounts shown on TFSs credit check should have raised a red flag for the 
lender.
Mr C says that he had not broken out of a payday loan cycle. He had continued to borrow in 
the three months leading up to his application to TFS. He says that borrowing would have 
been clear if TFS had requested copies of his bank statements. And he says the lender 
failed to question him on why hed used loans of this nature in the past.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering what Mr C has said, I remain of the opinion that TFS didnt act 
irresponsibly when it gave him the loan. But I would like to respond further on some of the 
matters that Mr C has raised in response to my provisional decision.
Generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion 
of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up 
to date. So, whilst I agree with Mr C that he continued to borrow from payday lenders in the 
lead up to taking the loan from TFS, that wasnt apparent from the credit check results that 
TFS received. And so, unless Mr C had made TFS aware of this continued borrowing (which 
he didnt), it isnt something that TFS could factor into its lending decision.
As I said in my provisional decision there is no doubt that, had TFS looked at Mr Cs bank 
statements, it should have concluded that he was facing problems managing his money. But 
I dont think, in the first instance, it would have been proportionate for TFS to conduct that 
depth of checks. And I dont think the results of TFSs initial checks should have led the 
lender to dig deeper into Mr Cs finances either.
The regulations require lenders to take account of any foreseeable changes in a consumers 
financial situation. So if, as he first explained, Mr C intended to use the loan to support 
moving home, that is something that should have been considered. But the update Mr C 
gave to TFS was that he would remain living with his parents for at least another year. I dont 
think that answer gave any indication that he had any firm plans to change home  and so 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect TFS to anticipate that potential change in 
Mr Cs circumstances when it looked at whether he could afford to repay the loan.
Overall I dont think the results of the proportionate checks that TFS performed should have 
led the lender to seek additional information or decline Mr Cs loan application. I dont think 
TFS did anything wrong in lending to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against TFS Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman