DRN-4078460
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) increased its risk rating of one 
of the pension funds he was invested in without notifying him. Mr B says this led to a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr B started a pension with Aviva in February 2014. At the time, he had a selected 
retirement date of late 2018. Aviva told this service that as the pension originated from Mr 
Bs company Pension Scheme, there was no application document.
Aviva said that when the pension had started, it had told Mr B that his contributions would be 
invested in the Mixed Investment 40-85% Lifestage Approach. The Lifestage Approach 
would automatically rebalanced Mr Bs pension investments the nearer he was to his 
retirement, moving his investments from funds with growth potential to funds that were more 
cautious. 
Mr B said he completed an investor risk assessment and was categorised as a "risk 
adverse/cautious" investor. He said his plan was to put his funds into low-risk investments 
and move them to even less risky investments as he approached retirement.
Aviva said it wrote to Mr B on 27 March 2014 to explain how his funds would be invested 
and what his selected retirement date was. As Mr B was just under five years away from his 
selected retirement age his funds would be initially invested as follows:
97.42% in the Aviva Mixed Investment
0.64% in the Aviva Pensions Deposit S6
1.94% in the Aviva Long Gilt S6 fund
Mr B retired from work in 2018. He took 25% tax-free cash from his pension. He didnt want 
to access his pension yet. So Aviva changed his selected retirement date to 2023.
Mr B said it wasnt until he received his 2022 pension update in February 2022 that he 
became aware that Aviva had re-classified the risk rating of its Long Gilts fund. He said his 
fund had a value of £23,244.15 as of 31 January 2021. But that it was only worth £20,666.35 
on 15 February 2022. So he called Aviva on 15 February 2022 to find out what was going 
on. 
Mr B said that Aviva told him that recent global economic changes had led it to change the 
risk rating of its Long Gilts fund. And that this had caused the fall in his fund value. Mr B said 
that Aviva told him during this call that it was only his pension administrator. And that if he 
wanted to change his investments he shouldve got his adviser to call it.
Mr B said that Avivas complaints team called him a few days later. He said it confirmed what 
hed been told on 15 February 2022. He said Aviva told him that its Long Gilts fund had been 
very low risk when his pension had been set up. But that, after the re-classification, it now 
had a risk rating of 5 out of 7. Mr B said Aviva sent him a report on long gilts to explain what 
had happened to them.
Aviva said it wrote to Mr B on 20 April 2022 to tell him that when his retirement date was 
changed, it hadnt correctly invested his funds in line with the Lifestage Investment 
Approach. It told Mr B that some of the funds hed been invested in hadnt performed as well 
as the ones he shouldve been invested in. So his plan was now worth £20,413.79 when it 
shouldve been worth £20,529.52.
Mr B replied to Aviva on 3 May 2022. He said he was concerned that his 2022 pension 
update now showed a loss of over £800 in the 15 days before hed received it. And said that 
all of his funds should be invested in the lowest possible risk categories, as hed requested 
when hed taken out the policy.
Mr B said that when hed spoken to Aviva hed been told that while his funds had originally 
been invested in low-risk products, global economic changes in 2021 had led to the Long 
Gilt fund he was invested in being reclassified with a 5 out of 7 risk rating. He felt the recent 
reduction to his fund value was due to the poor performance of long gilts. Mr B said that 
Aviva shouldve told him  and other impacted customers - that the risk category had gone 
up when it had changed the risk classification of its Long Gilts fund, so they could seek 
advice. He felt that by not telling its customers it had changed the risk category, Aviva had 
failed in its commitment to your customers.
Mr B said he emailed Aviva on 30 May 2022 to ask it why, if it did carry out regular client and 
product reviews, and was able to make corrective actions, it hadnt notified impacted 
customers about the change in risk rating of the long gilt fund. He felt it had a duty of care to 
do so. And to tell impacted customers that they should seek financial advice as soon as 
possible.
Aviva responded to Mr Bs complaint in its 1 June 2022 final response letter. It upheld the 
part of Mr Bs complaint that his pension hadnt been invested in line with the Lifestage 
investment strategy after his selected retirement date had been changed. It said that when 
Mr B had reached his retirement date in 2018, but hadnt taken his pension benefits, itd 
changed his retirement date to 2023. But from this point Mr Bs plan hadnt automatically 
rebalanced correctly, in line with his Lifestage Approach. Having identified the issue, Aviva 
said it corrected it and put Mr Bs pension fund back to the position it wouldve been in if the 
rebalancing error hadnt occurred. Aviva apologised for the time it had taken to realise its 
error about the rebalancing of Mr Bs fund. And said it wanted to send him £450 
compensation. It said it had awarded £250 for Mr Bs loss of expectation over a period of 
time. And £200 for the inconvenience and upset itd caused.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about the performance of the Long Gilt fund. It said it 
regularly monitored and reviewed the performance of its funds to ensure they were 
performing as expected, given market conditions. And that short-term ups and downs were a 
normal part of investing in this type of fund. It also said that it was Mr Bs pension provider, 
not his adviser, so it couldnt choose or advise him on his investment approach or funds. It 
said it could provide Mr B with information to help him make an informed choice. But it 
couldnt say whether his chosen investment funds were meeting his investment and 
retirement goals. Aviva also said that Mr B couldve changed his fund choice at any time if 
he wasnt happy with the performance.
Aviva also didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint that it hadnt told him about the risk re-
classification of that fund. It said it hadnt notified any of its customers about the change to 
the risk rating as it wasnt a material change. It also said that its risk ratings were based on 
the volatility of the fund over the last five years. And that as long gilts had increased in volatility over the last decade, this had been reflected in the risk rating. 
On 5 June 2022, Mr B replied to Avivas final response letter. Although he accepted the 
apology and the £450, he made the following points:
Hed been happy with the performance of his investment, so thered been no reason 
to query anything or to seek professional advice. He said the continual rise of his 
fund during a difficult time had given him incorrect confidence that the funds were in 
the correct place. 
He didnt agree that the particular funds were his choice. He said hed only stated 
that he wanted them to be in: a very risk-free scenario. He said that Aviva offered 
him the funds and strategy and he was happy to accept them.
He didnt agree that the risk re-classification wasnt a material change.
Aviva considered Mr Bs points but said its position remained unchanged. It felt that it was 
Mr Bs responsibility to manage and review his fund choices. So Mr B brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Mr B felt that the risk re-classification shouldve constituted a material change, which 
shouldve been notified to Avivas impacted customers. He wanted this service to consider 
whether we agreed that Aviva had failed in its duty of care to its customers when it hadnt 
notified them about the re-classification.
Mr B told this service hed transferred his pension to another provider on 6 June 2022. He 
said the fund value had fallen further, and was now below £20,000. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. Although she felt that Aviva had been required, 
under its terms and conditions, to inform Mr B of the 2015 change in the risk rating, she 
didnt think he wouldve changed his investments at that time if it had. So she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She felt the £450 Aviva had already offered Mr B was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr B said he was pleased that our investigator appeared to agree that Aviva shouldve 
notified him after making the risk rating change under its own terms and conditions. But was 
disappointed that this service hadnt insisted that Aviva had to formally accept that a change 
to a risk rating was a material change which had to be communicated to any client potentially 
impacted by the change. He said Aviva hadnt ever notified him of any change in risk rating 
of any product. He felt this showed that Aviva had failed more than once to adhere to its own 
terms and conditions. 
Mr B said hed feel vindicated in making his complaint if the Ombudsman were to require 
Aviva to accept that a change to a risk rating was a material change which needed to be 
communicated to all potentially impacted clients within, say, 30 days. 
Mr B also made the following points:
As his investor profile was to have his funds invested in low-risk products, he 
questioned why Aviva had invested any of his funds in Long Gilts, even when it had a 
risk rating of 3 out of 5, but especially when its risk rating had increased.
He also queried why Aviva planned to move even more of his funds into Long Gilts 
as he approached retirement. He felt his funds wouldve been much safer being left 
in the mixed investment category. Mr B said that Aviva never told him what the current risk ratings were. And said they 
didnt appear in the annual performance reviews he received. 
He didnt accept our investigators assumption that he wouldnt have requested a 
change to his investment portfolio so soon after having taken out the pension if hed 
been told about the Long Gilt risk rating increase. He said hed been denied the 
opportunity to discuss this with Aviva or with his adviser at the time. He 
acknowledged that his adviser mightve said it was still a reasonable investment. But 
said he certainly wouldve queried the risk rating increase with Aviva if hed known 
about it. So it wasnt reasonable to say he wouldnt have made a change. 
Our investigator told Mr B that this service couldnt require Aviva to accept that a change to a 
risk rating was a material change which had to be communicated to all potentially impacted 
clients. She still felt that Aviva had taken reasonable steps to put things right.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 March 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. I know my decision will be 
disappointing for Mr B. Ill explain my reasons for it.
While I agree with the outcome our investigator recommended, I dont agree that Aviva failed 
to meet its terms and conditions. I understand why our investigator has interpreted the 
wording in the terms and conditions for Mr Bs pension in the way that she did. But I dont 
agree that Aviva was obliged to inform Mr B of the change to the Long Gilts funds risk rating 
under the terms and conditions. 
I say this because the terms and conditions related to situations where Aviva had changed 
an investment approach. In my view this means, for example, that it had decided to change 
the way a Lifestage Strategy operated, or had decided to change the split of assets within a 
particular fund. I say this because the section of the terms and conditions our investigator 
relied on was called: When we may change an investment approach. And the first line of 
this section said: We may change or remove any investment approach for any of the 
reasons set out below.
The section went on to say that if Aviva changed or removed any investment approach, it 
could mean a change to other things, including the risk profile of the investment approach.
I dont consider that the re-classification of the Long Gilts fund constituted a change to an 
investment approach. Im satisfied that the Long Gilts fund was re-classified based on the 
increased volatility of the fund over the last few years. This wasnt a change due to a 
decision by Aviva. It was a change due to market conditions, over which Aviva had no 
control.
So I dont agree that Aviva were required, under the terms and conditions, to notify its 
customers about the change to the Long Gilts fund risk rating. But Ive gone on to consider 
whether Aviva failed in its duty of care to its customers when it didnt notify them about the 
re-classification. 
Aviva has confirmed that it reviews the risk ratings of its funds each year. This means that, 
depending on historical performance and information received from the fund managers, the risk ratings can change over time. I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable to ask 
Aviva to inform its customers of each and every re-classification following a review. But I 
would expect it to give its customers ongoing access to fund factsheets which include the 
most up-to-date risk rating. 
Aviva told this service that Mr B can view his investments online. It said hed registered for 
its online service on 16 October 2017 and had used it once or twice a month until he 
transferred out. It said that, amongst many other things, fund information, including 
factsheets, could be viewed online. And that fund changes could be made online. Aviva also 
said that its fund centre is kept up to date with the latest risk rating. 
While I acknowledge that Mr B said that Aviva never told him what the current risk ratings 
were, Im satisfied that he had relatively easy access to this information through Avivas 
online service. I can see that the factsheet for the Aviva Long Gilt S6 fund clearly states that 
it has a risk rating of 5 out of 7, with 7 being the highest risk. So Im not persuaded that Aviva 
failed in its duty of care to its customers, as I consider that the risk rating information was 
always available to Mr B. 
Mr B feels that his complaint stands or falls entirely on what constitutes a material change. 
And questions would does constitute a material change, if increasing the risk rating of a 
financial product doesnt. Aviva doesnt agree that the re-classification was a material 
change. 
I first looked at the history of the risk ratings for the Long Gilts fund. Aviva said that it re-
classified its Long Gilts fund in 2015, a year after Mr B started his pension, from a 3 out of 5 
(where 5 was the highest risk) to a 4 out of 5. It also said that it re-classified it again in 2019, 
due to a change to the risk rating scale. At this point it was classified as a 5 out of 7 (where 7 
was the highest risk).
Aviva said that it didnt consider that the change in risk rating from a 4 to a 5 on the 1 to 7 
scale was a material one as it was the scale that changed, not the risk of the fund. It also 
didnt consider the 2015 change from 3 to 4 was material. It said that a significant change 
would be changing from a 1 (low risk) to a 5 (medium to high risk).
Mr B provided a definition of material change:
Material Change means a change that an average, careful investor would want to know 
about before making an investment decision. 
He said that if Aviva had told him that itd re-classified the risk rating of its Long Gilts fund 
and recommended that he sought financial advice, he wouldve done so. And that he 
wouldve then been able to mitigate his financial losses.
From what Ive seen, the Long Gilts fund was classified as a medium risk fund when Mr B 
first invested in it. And it moved to medium to high with effect from 2015. It was still classified 
as medium to high in 2019, although due to the risk scale being expanded, it was given a 
different numerical rating.
I acknowledge that Mr B said hed been categorised as a "risk adverse/cautious" investor. 
And that this had led him to want to put his funds into low-risk investments and move them to 
even less risky investments as he approached retirement. I can also see that hes 
questioned why Aviva moved his funds into its Long Gilts fund as he approached retirement, 
as he felt his funds wouldve been much safer being left in the mixed investment category. 
But Ive seen no evidence that Aviva failed to follow any of his investment instructions. From what Ive seen, Aviva wrote to Mr B on 27 March 2014 to explain how his funds would 
be invested. I understand that this had been arranged with Mr Bs employer at that time. The 
Lifestage Approach, which would automatically rebalance his pension investments the 
nearer he was to Mr Bs retirement, was to be used. 
Mr B didnt agree that the funds he was invested in were his choice. He said hed wanted to 
be in a very risk-free scenario. He felt hat Aviva had offered him the funds and strategy 
which he had accepted.
I dont agree with Mr B here. He couldve chosen to select his own investment funds at any 
point. But Ive seen no evidence that he ever asked Aviva to change his investments. 
Aviva said it was Mr Bs pension provider, not his adviser. And that it was Mr Bs 
responsibility to choose his investment approach and funds, and to ensure they remained 
suitable for him. I agree with Aviva here. But I also consider that Aviva had a responsibility to 
provide Mr B with the necessary information so that he could make informed decisions.
I acknowledge that Mr B said that as hed wanted to be invested in low-risk investments, he 
wouldve taken advice and potentially changed his investments if hed known about the Long 
Gilt funds risk rating increase. But Im not persuaded that this wouldve happened. I say this 
because Mr B was, from the start, invested in a medium risk fund. And he didnt question it. 
In summary, Aviva wasnt responsible for advising Mr B about how his funds should be 
invested or tasked with monitoring them. It was Mr Bs responsibility to check if the Lifestage 
Strategy remained appropriate for his requirements. And if he decided it wasnt, he couldve 
changed it at any time.
Aviva accepted it made a mistake with applying the Lifestage Strategy correctly. It corrected 
this mistake. And awarded Mr B £250 compensation for his loss of expectation over a period 
of time. And £200 for the inconvenience and upset it caused him. I consider Aviva took 
reasonable steps to put things right here. 
I acknowledge that in making his complaint, Mr B wanted to prevent other consumers being 
faced with the same issues hes faced. I can see why he felt the way he did. But I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable to require Aviva to notify its customers of a non-
material re-classification of risk ratings given it assesses the risk ratings of all its funds 
annually. And given the outcome of its assessments are available to all its customers upon 
request. So I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither Mr B nor Aviva responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further comments have been received, so I remain of the view I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman