DRN-2067855
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The policy was paid with a regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. It covered 
Mr G in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
After careful consideration, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application had a section for PPI. It only recommended that it was 
something they thought about  it wasnt a necessary part of the mortgage. There was a box 
Mr and Mrs G could sign if they wanted PPI, which could be left blank if they didnt want it. 
They signed specifically for PPI, and separately signed the application as a whole to confirm 
their choices.
Mr and Mrs G also signed and submitted a separate application specifically for PPI, which 
came with an overview of the policys main features. The application set out the policys cost 
separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  again, it wasnt part and parcel of the lending. 
Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs G were unfairly pressured into 
buying PPI  from what Ive seen, it looks like it was presented as an optional extra. And 
I havent seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process at the time, either. So overall, 
I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs G were given a fair choice about buying PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check that the policy was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, it looks like Mr G was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr G had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
covered him more comprehensively. He also said he had around £30,000 of savings, though 
I can see that he initially applied for a mortgage of around £90,000 but then instead took out 
one for £60,000. So it looks like that £30,000 may have been spent in his deposit. But even if 
it wasnt, the PPI could effectively protect Mr Gs savings and allow him to use them for other 
things, instead of having to sacrifice one asset to save another if things went wrong. And the 
savings wouldve only lasted for so long if needed to cover all his living costs, had he lost his 
job or had his sick pay run out. Further, this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment, and there was no guarantee that Mr G would have the same savings or 
benefits available in the many years to come. Similarly, while I understand he felt secure in 
his industry and got a new job quickly, long-term redundancies can and do happen even in 
roles that feel secure, so it seems sensible that he insured himself against that. Ultimately, if 
Mr and Mrs G had fallen behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So the PPI 
couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing peace of mind.
The quotation and application documents set out the monthly cost of the PPI clearly, as well 
as what it would pay out. So I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve understood what the premium 
and benefit would be if they chose it. To clarify, this policy did not attract interest.
It is possible that Halifax could have given Mr and Mrs G better information about the main 
things the policy didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of those things, so I dont 
think such information was likely to make a difference here.
Lastly, I understand that Mr G is unhappy about a phone call he had with Halifaxs 
complaints team. In this case, Im only looking at the sale of the PPI, rather than what came 
after. And because of the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of that call. While 
I know that Mr G feels strongly about this call, Im afraid I dont agree that his experience 
with a complaint call in 2019 has any bearing on how his insurance was sold over two 
decades beforehand.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman