DRN-3288986
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs D have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs D took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the mortgage in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Mrs D disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Id like to try and clear up some confusion which has been created by the wording of our 
adjudicators assessment. Mr B and Mrs D say that some doubt must be raised about the 
veracity of the information provided by Santander. 
Firstly, the adjudicator said that the mortgage ended before April 2008. This gave Mr B and 
Mrs D the impression that Santander had presented the information to us in this vague way. 
However, Santander had told us that the last policy premium had been paid in November 
1999 which was presumably when the mortgage also ended. The phrase ended before April 
2008 was used by the adjudicator in order to set out the relevant timeframes for looking at 
whether the Plevin judgment was relevant or not, which he then goes on to address later in 
his assessment letter. Thats because Plevin only applies where the credit agreement has 
been taken out on or after 6 April 2007 or to credit agreements taken out before then which 
are still running on 6 April 2008.
Secondly, in talking about the benefit of the policy, the adjudicator was referring to the 
amount that would have been paid out per month should Mr B and Mrs D have made a 
successful claim. It is true to say that neither party has any evidence of how much the PPI 
was set up to cover although it is reasonable to assume that it would have covered the 
monthly mortgage repayments as a minimum. 
Santander no longer has any documentation available relating to the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it took place. To be clear, banks are not required to keep 
paperwork indefinitely and we would not expect Santander to hold full records from 1994, 
particularly as the mortgage account has been closed for some considerable time. However, 
Santander has been able to provide some basic summary information that it has in electronic 
form, as well as a copy of a policy leaflet.
Although we dont have any documentation from this particular sale, as a service we have 
seen a number of the types of application forms that were in use by Santander at the time 
and know much about its sales processes. From what we know, Santander usually 
presented the PPI as optional during mortgage interviews.
Mr B and Mrs D were first time buyers and say they were told that taking out the PPI would 
increase their chances of having the mortgage application accepted, meaning that in effect 
they had no option but to agree to the PPI.
Ive thought very carefully about this, but Ive also considered how long ago the sale took 
place. I have no doubt that Mr B and Mrs D have provided their genuine recollection of 
events. But as the sale happened in 1994 it wouldnt be surprising if their memory of the 
meeting has faded. 
Overall, I consider that Mr B and Mrs D would most likely have known that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI. A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr B and Mrs D had an interest in protecting their repayments. On balance, it 
seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if 
they no longer remember doing so.
The sale was what in regulatory language is termed advised, as opposed to an information 
only sale. Therefore, in recommending the policy to Mr B and Mrs D, Santander needed to 
ensure that it met the couples needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for them.
Although Mr B and Mrs D would have received some sick pay from their jobs, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than either Mr B or 
Mrs D would have received full pay for (for example, the policy could have paid out for up to 
36 months if a claim had been made for accident or sickness). And the couple didnt have 
any other means, such as savings to fall back on. Also, there was nothing about their 
circumstances that would have made it more difficult for them to make a successful claim. 
For instance, neither of them had pre-existing medical conditions. So Mr B and Mrs D could 
have benefitted from the PPI at what would have been a difficult time. As the policy was 
suitable for them, it was reasonable of Santander to recommend that they should buy it.
Its possible that Santander could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B and Mrs D werent affected by any 
of those things. As I have concluded that Mr B and Mrs D had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont consider that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So, as they have suffered no detriment as a result of anything Santander may 
have done wrong, theres nothing Santander needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman