DRN-3034766
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted 
irresponsibly by granting him a loan that was unaffordable for him.
 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr W took out a loan with Madison for £3,500. It was to be paid off over 12 
months with repayments set at £390.79, meaning that Mr W was required to pay back a total 
of £4,689.48.
Mr W later complained that the loan was unaffordable. He said he struggled with the 
payments because of the high interest rate.
Madison said it had asked Mr W a number of questions about his income and expenditure, 
personal circumstances and employment details when he applied for the loan. It also used 
reasonable average figures for income and expenditure and information from Mr Ws credit 
file. It said all the loan details (including the interest charge) were explained to Mr W and he 
was asked if the loan was affordable during the application process. Madison said it was 
satisfied it had acted correctly in approving Mr Ws loan application.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ws concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
information Mr W had provided on the application and what was showing on his credit file 
suggested the loan was affordable. She acknowledged that Mr W was unhappy with the 
interest rate but was satisfied that Madison had given clear information about this before    
Mr W agreed to it. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Madison to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.
  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Madison to think only about 
the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Madison gathered information from Mr W before it agreed the loan and also checked his 
credit file. On his application Mr W said he was employed and was earning £5,000 a month. 
He said he was a homeowner with a mortgage of £1,000 a month, although his credit file 
showed this was £1,090. The other outgoings he stated (council tax, utilities and food) added 
up to £516 a month. Mr W said his card and loan payments were £300 a month, but 
according to his credit file they were £823 a month. 
The information provided to Madison gave Mr W a disposable income of £2,571. This would 
be reduced to £2,180.21 once the new loan repayment was taken off. 
Mr W says that the income he gave on the application was before tax. I cant see from the 
information provided how clear Madisons question about income was. But even allowing for 
tax and national insurance contributions being deducted from his declared income, Im 
satisfied that Mr W still would have been left with sufficient disposable income for other 
essential outgoings. 
Theres nothing else on Mr Ws credit file that I think should have given Madison cause for 
concern. He appeared to be up to date with his repayments on his other commitments, and 
there were no recent defaults or county court judgments.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr W. But having considered everything, I think 
Madisons checks were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. And these 
suggested the loan was affordable. So, I dont think Madison acted irresponsibly when it 
granted Mr W the loan.
Mr W is also unhappy about the interest charged on the loan. I appreciate the amount Mr W 
was asked to pay back is significantly higher than what he borrowed and making the 
payments may have been difficult. But the credit agreement makes no attempt to disguise 
how costly the loan is. It clearly sets out the terms of the loan, including the total amount to 
be repaid. As Mr W accepted these terms and the payments appeared to be affordable, 
based on the information it had at the time, I cant say Madison acted unfairly when it 
provided the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman