DRN-4242837
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B took out three instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loantaken 
outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayment, £
1 Nov-17 1,300 24 155.63 3,735.12
2 Oct-19 5,100 36 282.90 10,184.40
3 Apr-21 6,200 36 353.99 12,743.64
Loan 3 was taken out to repay loan 2 in part. Mr B says he wanted loan 1 to buy a computer
but then kept being offered better rates by ELL so took out more loans. He did repay some
other debts, but has ended up having to take out more loans to make his repayments.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint saying he did not find ELL had lent
irresponsibly to Mr B.
Mr B disagreed and gave examples of the information on his credit file and bank statements
that indicated he was gambling, over-indebted and reliant on credit. He asked for an
ombudsmans review.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this on recent bank statements. It verified his declared
employment. It asked for his housing costs and estimated his living costs using national
statistics, adding a buffer to cover unexpected expenses. It also checked Mr Bs credit file to
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history each time. It asked
about the purpose of all three loans. Mr B said the first was for a computer, the second was
for debt consolidation and wedding costs and the third was for debt consolidation. From
these checks combined ELL concluded Mr B could afford to take on the loans and repay
them sustainably.
I think these checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2, but I think more shouldve have
been done for loan 3 to understand Mr Bs actual outgoings. However I wont comment
further on this as even based on the information it did gather, I am not persuaded ELL made
a fair lending decision for loan 3. I think it did for the first two loans. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
ELL calculated that Mr B would have disposable income of £805. It could see from its credit
check he had unsecured debt of £11,683 and had only one search registered in the last six
months. He had one late payment on a credit card that was overlimit but the balance was
low and his was up to date on all his other active accounts. There was no adverse data such
as defaults or CCJs. There were two payday loans showing on his credit report but these
were settled and the most recent was in January 2017. There was also evidence of frequent
gambling transactions on Mr Bs bank statements but I dont think at this stage he was
spending such a proportion of his income in this way that ELL ought to have been
concerned. In the round I think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude Mr B would be able to
sustainable repay this loan.
It follows I dont think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr B.
Loan 2
My findings are similar for loan 2. ELL calculated that Mr B would have disposable income of
£695.54 after repaying the debts he planned to. The credit check showed Mr Bs
indebtedness had not increased and there were only two searches in the last six months. I
can see Mr B had missed some payments on a hire purchase agreement but for last three
months it had been up to date. Similarly there were occasional missed payments on Mr Bs
credit cards, and two with low balances were over limit. So whilst there was some adverse
data I dont think it was such that ELL ought to have declined the application. But I say this
only as this loan was for debt consolidation. ELL was directly settling two other high-cost
loans and Mr B was repaying a high-cost line of revolving credit.
I note there was still evidence of gambling on Mr Bs bank statements and it had increased
since loan1, but his income had too and the percentage of income he was spending in this
manner had not increased.
I think in the specific circumstances of this application it was reasonable again for ELL to
lend to Mr B.
Loan 3
Mr B applied for more funds for debt consolidation during the term of loan 2. At this stage his
indebtedness had increased significantly to over £20,000 and there were five searches for
credit registered on his file in the last six months. He had not closed the line of high-cost
revolving credit as planned at the time of loan 2 and seemed to be increasingly reliant on
credit. Mr Bs income had increased quite significantly, yet he still needed to use short-term
high-cost credit six times in March 2021, starting only ten days after payday. I think by this
stage it was clear Mr B was trapped in a cycle of borrowing to repay and ELL needed to
consider this, not just the pounds and pence affordability. There was clear evidence Mr B
was borrowing informally from family and friends frequently, as well as other high-cost
lenders. Mr B had by this stage been borrowing from ELL for over 40 months without a break
and each loan was for a larger amount. I cannot see how ELL can argue this lending was
sustainably affordable for Mr B, and it knows it was obliged to consider this. I think there was 
a high risk Mr B would either need to borrow to repay or suffer other financial harm.
I can see the loan was again for debt consolidation but after repaying loan 2 Mr B received
around £2,500 to use against his other debts and they were far in excess of this. So this time
I cannot see the loan wouldnt most likely be financially detrimental.
It follows I think it was wrong for ELL to give loan 3 to Mr B.I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly towards Mr B in some other way.
I then set out what ELL would need to do to put things right and I asked both parties to send 
any comments by 13 July 2023.
Mr B responded to say he had no further points to add. ELL did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence or comments I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to provide loan 3 to Mr B.
Putting things right for loan 3
Its reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the benefit
of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been
given to him. So he has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr B repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the
loan once any outstanding capital balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman