The complaint  
Mr and Mrs F complain that Quilter Financial Limited didn t carry out affordability checks 
before recommending a mortgage. They say the mortgage wasnt suitable or affordable. Mr 
and Mrs F ask for a refund of fees and interest and compensation.  
What happened  
Mr and Mrs F contacted Quilter in mid -2013. The neede d more room for their family and 
were considering their options, such as extending their house or moving to a larger property. 
Quilter sent them mortgage illustrations and they decided to move to a larger property.  
Quilter recommended and applied for a mo rtgage on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf. This was on a 
part capital repayment and part interest only basis. Mr F says if Quilter had asked for 
evidence of their outgoings it would have known the mortgage wasnt affordable. He says 
their repayment strategy  sellin g the property  wasnt appropriate, and Quilter forged their 
signatures on the mortgage application.  
Mr F says the resulting financial hardship meant he had to retire early and use his pension 
lump sum to repay unsecured debts and reduce the mortgage balance. He says this will 
impact his pension and long -term financial position.  
Our investigator said Quilter  did a fact find and assessed affordability based on information 
provided by Mr and Mrs F about their expenditure. If this wasnt correct, they could have 
told Quilter. At that time, sale of the property was an acceptable repayment strategy. Our 
investigat or said Quilter hadnt acted inappropriately when it recommended the mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. Mr F said they didnt receive the suitability report until recently, 
and noted it was dated the day before they moved house. He says they didnt have  an 
opportunity to review its contents before agreeing to the mortgage. Mr F said while 
regulations have since improved to protect customers this doesnt exonerate Quilter from 
responsibility for selling an unsuitable product. He sent extracts from decisio ns by the courts 
and this service to support what he said.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Quilter recommended the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs F. So it needed to take reasonable steps 
to ensure it was suitable for them. To do this, it needed to gather information about their 
circumstances. At that time Quilter was responsible for checking the mortgage was 
affordable. Quilter has pr ovided us with documents from the time of the recommendation, 
including a fact find, suitability letter and mortgage application. It says it would have sent 
copies of these documents to Mr and Mrs F, but cant provide evidence of this.  
DRN-1872700Mr F disputes some of the information in these documents  for instance that they didnt 
want to provide evidence of their outgoings, that theyd said their monthly outgoings were 
about £2,000, and their intended retirement ages. He al so says their signatures were added 
to documents fraudulently, and they didnt receive copies of documents such as the 
suitability letter from Quilter.  
 
As the parties dispute some of what happened here, I should explain that where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.  
 
Affordability of monthly payments  
 
Quilter asked for evidence of income, which was consistent with the information in the fact  
find. Mr and Mrs Fs net monthly income was stated to be about £3,200.  
 
While the fact find template allows for a breakdown of expenditure, here it says Mr and 
Mrs F didnt want to provide a full breakdown of their expenditure. A total is provided of  
£2,000 per month. Mr and Mrs F say Quilter made up expenditure information without 
checking it with them. On balance, I think its more likely Quilter went through the fact find 
questions with Mr and Mrs F and included expenditure based on that discussion.  
 
The fact find says Mr and Mrs F wanted monthly mortgage payments of £500. The 
recommended mortgage had monthly payments of about £385 during the initial three -year 
fixed rate period. This was within Mr and Mrs Fs stated budget, and appeared affordable.  
 
Mr and Mrs F say the information in the fact find isnt right and their actual monthly 
expenditure was higher than their incomes. Mr F sent copies of his end of year credit card 
statement for February 2013 and 2014 and bank statements for that period to this service, to 
support what hes said.  
 
The bank statements show Mr and Mrs Fs monthly spending in March to July 2013 was 
more than £2,000. Mr F says they inherited about £55,000 in 2012, which reduced to about  
£8,000 by October 2013. The bank statements sho w transfers into the account in April 2013 
(£10,000) and July 2013 (£33,000) from another account in Mr Fs name, presumably the 
inheritance money. In July 2013 Mr and Mrs Fs bank balance was about £36,000. It looks 
as if some of this was used in their ho use purchase as there was a faster payment at about 
that time, and some spending is to furniture or vehicle sales businesses. Its possible Mr and 
Mrs F were spending more than usual because of their move to a larger house and having 
inherited money availa ble to spend.  
 
Quilter based its affordability assessment on what Mr and Mrs F said about their usual 
expenditure. I dont think Quilter had any reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs F  had told it. 
Apart from the income and expenditure information, which suggests Mr and Mrs F had 
disposable income, the fact find says Mr and Mrs F had cash savings of £25,000 and ISAs 
of £7,500. The fact find says they had no other debts, such as loans or  credit card balances  
 which is consistent with the annual credit card statement Mr F sent which shows no 
interest was paid. I think, having considered the facts and the information provided by Mr 
and Mrs F, Quilter had reasonable grounds to conclude that  they could afford the  mortgage.  
 
Interest only mortgage and repayment of the balance  
 
The broker sent emails to Mr F before the fact find with information about the mortgages 
that might be available and the monthly costs for a repayment mortgage. However,  for a term ending at Mr F s stated retirement age the monthly repayments were more than Mr 
and Mrs Fs budget. One of the emails says the lender was unlikely to allow a longer term. 
Its likely a repayment mortgage was discussed, but  wasnt affordable.  
 
Its not always possible for an adviser to make a recommendation which meets all of a 
consumers needs or requests, and compromises have to be made. I need to consider 
whether the advice given was a good fit, based on Mr and Mrs Fs ne eds and 
circumstances at the time of the advice  keeping in mind what was available.  
 
Mr and Mrs F were buying a six bedroomed property, with a purchase price of £270,000. As 
the interest only part of the mortgage was £135,000, Mr and Mrs F would have exp ected 
some equity when they sold the property. So planning to downsize to a smaller property 
would have seemed credible.  
 
Mr and Mrs F had a large family and wanted more space than their previous house offered. 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford the monthly paym ents for a repayment mortgage with a term 
ending before Mr F was 65. By the time the 17 -year term of Mr and Mrs Fs interest only 
mortgage expires, most of their children will be young adults. While they might not all leave 
Mr and Mrs Fs house before 2030 , taking out an interest only mortgage to move to a larger 
property might have seemed a reasonable compromise in 2013.  
 
While selling the house was an acceptable repayment strategy in 2013, I can understand 
that Mr and Mrs F  might prefer not to have to do this. Theres some time before the term 
expires. Mr and Mrs F might want to discuss their options with their lender, or consider 
taking independent advice to explore their options.  
 
Incorrect information in the documents  
 
The fact find was completed during a call in July 2013. Thered been previous discussions 
about what mortgages might be available to Mr and Mrs F if they moved house. The fact 
find says Mr and Mrs F intended to retire in their sixties. Mr and Mrs Fs employe r allowed 
them to retire and take pensions early. But theres nothing in the documents to suggest they 
told Quilter this was their intention or that Mr Fs poor health meant he wouldnt be able to 
work to his intended retirement age. Mr F said in his compl aint letter he retired earlier than 
intended, due to financial difficulties.  
 
There are some inconsistencies in the documents. For instance, Mr and Mrs Fs intended 
retirement ages and their regular monthly outgoings are not the same in the fact find and i n 
the mortgage application. This doesnt mean Quilter fabricated information  Mr and Mrs F 
might have provided updated information. And the mortgage still appeared affordable when 
either set of ages or outgoings were used.  
 
Overall, I think Quilter took r easonable steps to ensure the mortgage it recommended was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, based on the information they provided about their circumstances 
and needs at that time.  
 
My final decision  
 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the  rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.  Ruth Stevenson  
Ombudsman  