DRN-3050149
The complaint
Miss F has complained about loans granted to her by Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G). She says 
that L2G didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks and the loans were unaffordable for 
her.
What happened
L2G agreed three loans for Miss F: a loan of £800 in January 2015; a second of £900 in 
November 2015, and a third of £3,500 in October 2017. Approximately £300 of the second 
loan was used to repay the first. Some of the information L2G provided is shown in the table 
below (all figures rounded to the nearest pound). 
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repaid
1 24/01/2015 30/11/2015 £800 £151 12 £1,817
2 27/11/2015 21/04/2017 £900 £149 18 £2,682
3 31/10/2017 27/05/2021 £3,500 £482 36 £17,360
These were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Miss F 
provided L2G with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss F didnt make her loan 
repayments L2G could potentially recoup any losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
Miss F says that L2G didnt carry out appropriate affordability checks before lending to her 
and that she couldnt afford her repayments. She says that her income came from state 
benefits and she had five dependents. Shes also complained that she wasnt given 
information about how much interest shed incur on her third loan before entering into the 
agreement and that the interest was very high. Miss F also says that L2G harassed her by 
calling and sending emails and texts about her debt, including  sending a threatening letter.  
L2G says it asked Miss F about her income and expenditure each time she applied for a 
loan. It says it verified this information by checking her bank statements and her credit file. 
The lender says that its checks showed each loan to be affordable for Miss F. Nevertheless, 
L2G offered to waive the outstanding balance on Miss Fs account as a goodwill gesture. 
Miss F declined this offer and brought her complaint to this Service. I understand she has 
since fully repaid her third loan and L2G has relinquished its interest in her car. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened when each of Miss Fs loans were 
agreed. They found that L2G carried out proportionate affordability checks but that it should 
have taken better account of the information it had, because it showed that Miss F would not 
be able to afford the repayments for her third loan. Our investigator recommended that L2G 
refund all payments Miss F made on this loan above the capital of £3,500 she borrowed, 
along with compensatory interest. They didnt find that L2G had acted unfairly in any other 
way. 
L2G didnt agree with this recommendation. It said its review of Miss Fs bank statements 
from the time of her final loan didnt show that the repayments would have been unaffordable 
for her. The lender asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Miss Fs complaint about her third loan. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for L2G and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have 
come to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when L2G lent to Miss F. Its rules 
and guidance obliged L2G to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), L2G needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly and it would not be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit 
history, age, health, disability or any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
L2G needed to check that Miss F could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for her. CONC 5.3.1G said this should take into account more than 
assessing the customer's ability to repay the credit. In other words, L2G needed to check 
Miss F could repay the credit out of her usual means without having to borrow further and 
without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed 
to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and also to Miss Fs circumstances, and L2G 
needed to take proper account of the information it gathered. The overarching requirement 
here is that L2G needed to Miss F fairly and take her interests into account. 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Fs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
- did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing her loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown? 
- did L2G make fair lending decisions?
- did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example did it give 
Miss F clear, fair and not misleading information before she entered into her 
agreements and did it treat her fairly when she fell into arrears?
L2G says it gathered information from Miss F about her income and expenses each time she 
applied for a loan  see table below. L2G says that its assessment showed that for all loans 
the monthly repayments would be affordable for Miss F, leaving her with several hundred 
pounds a month to spare. 
Income Expenditure Disposable 
Loan 1 £1,330 £713 £617
Loan 2 £1,393 £647 £746
Loan 3 £1,655 £828 £827From the information L2G provided, I can see it checked Miss Fs income and some of her 
expenses against her bank statements for her first two loans. The credit file information 
provided didnt show anything which I think ought to have been of concern to L2G, for 
example a high level of existing debt or problems managing active accounts. I think the 
checks it carried out for these two loans were proportionate and I havent seen anything 
which I think ought to have prompted L2G to decline credit for Miss F or carry out further 
checks. Altogether, I dont think L2G were irresponsible when they agreed these loans for 
Miss F and so I am not upholding her complaint about these.
L2G provided Miss Fs loan account history and customer contact notes. I can see from 
these that Miss F missed a payment on her first loan and appears to have had her automatic 
payments declined for her second. It seems she made most of her payments for this second 
loan by card. 
Miss F applied for a third loan about six months after repaying her second. It was for 
considerably more and her monthly repayments would be over three times as much. L2G 
provided a copy of its credit file check and while this doesnt show any debt concerns it does 
show a fraud marker from the previous month relating to a hire purchase agreement. L2G 
said it also relied on Miss Fs bank statements from the time and provided copies of these 
covering September and October 2017. 
It seems on the face of it that the checks L2G carried out here were proportionate. The loan 
repayments would take up almost a third of Miss Fs declared monthly income and I think 
L2G was right to seek reassurance that she would be able to make her repayments 
sustainably. However, I dont think the lender full considered the information it had before 
agreeing to lend to Miss F a third time. 
L2G estimated that Miss F had a disposable monthly income of £828 and so considered she 
could afford the loan repayments. However, as our investigator pointed out, the bank 
statements L2G relied on dont reflect this figure. They show Miss Fs usual income 
amounted to about £1,540. This included state benefits and an amount of £125 a month 
which Miss F had said was from her ex-partner for child maintenance. However, I can see 
the statements show more than this being paid to him by Miss F. Miss F told us that this was 
likely to have been child-related costs  she had five children at the time, which L2G knew. 
The bank statements also show that Miss Fs expenses were usually more than the figure 
L2G used. Miss Fs costs for food, petrol, car tax and insurances, mobile and internet came 
to about £850 a month. This doesnt include any obvious clothing, household or 
entertainment costs. I can see costs of about £135 a month for school uniforms and what 
seems likely to be household costs (in DIY, household and electronic stores) plus cinema 
and tv spend. 
There are other costs, for example sportswear costs, but without going into Miss Fs bank 
statements in any more detail, I think its clear that she would not have been able to afford to 
meet her payments of £482 a month for this loan without difficulty. I dont think L2G treated 
Miss F fairly by agreeing to lend to her under these circumstances, bearing in mind that the 
repayments would take up a third of her benefits each month for, potentially, three years and 
she had five dependents.
The contact notes and account statement show that Miss F missed payments for this loan 
almost immediately and received numerous texts and late payments letters. She told L2G in 
August 2018 that she was having financial difficulties and it seems by October Miss F was 
being supported by an advice charity. In November 2018 L2G attempted to recover Miss Fs 
car, which I think was a foreseeable risk. Miss F has lost out by paying interest and charges and, potentially, had adverse information 
recorded on her credit file because of L2Gs decision to lend. Ive set out later in this 
document what L2G needs to do to put things right for her.
I have also considered what Miss F said about the information she received before she 
entered into the agreement for her third loan. L2G has provided a signed loan agreement 
along with signed supporting information document, both dated 31 October 2017. These 
contain information I would expect to see, for example the total charge for the credit, the 
repayment amounts and the total amount payable. Of course I dont know exactly what 
happened at the point the loan was agreed but I havent seen enough to be able to say 
Miss F didnt receive all the information I think she should have prior to entering into the 
agreement. 
I have also considered whether or not L2G treated Miss F fairly when she fell into arrears. It 
seems that L2G didnt manage to get in touch with Miss F to discuss her difficulties and 
proceeded to recover her car in November 2018. It was then, in December 2018, L2G learnt 
via an advice charity that Miss F had moved. Miss Fs representative explained that the 
council had moved her and her children into temporary accommodation and she needed the 
car to drive her children to school. In response, L2G agreed to work with Miss F to set up a 
payment plan and reduced payments were agreed for January to March of 2019. A second 
plan was agreed for April to June, which rolled on to December of that year. In January 2020 
Miss F offered to begin making her full monthly payments as she said she was in receipt of 
further benefits and did so. 
I havent seen anything in the customer notes which suggest to me that L2G didnt work with 
Miss F to set up a payment plan. I can see the lender was in frequent contact with Miss F 
and that in 2020 she received final demand letters which, when she queried these, she was 
told to ignore as shed been in contact in the meantime. Having considered the available 
information, I dont think L2G treated Miss F unfairly in terms of the level of communication it 
had with her. From what I can see it seems Miss F didnt provide enough information by way 
of bank statements for L2G to set up a formal payment plan and automatic notifications were 
sent when otherwise they might not have been. I can appreciate this was a stressful time for 
Miss F and I can understand why she felt hassled regarding this debt. But from everything 
Ive seen, I dont think L2G acted unfairly during this time.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that L2G was irresponsible to have agreed to a third loan for Miss F, taken 
out in October 2017. While Miss F has had the use of these funds I think shes lost out by 
being charged interest and other fees as a result of being given this loan. In order to put her 
back into the position she would have been in had it declined to lend to her, L2G should:
a) refund all payments Miss F has made above the original amount borrowed of £3,500; 
and
b) add 8% simple interest to these overpayments from the day they were paid to the 
date of settlement of this complaint; and
c) remove any adverse information from Miss Fs credit file in relation to this loan. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Fs complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as Ive set out.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman