DRN-3766546
The complaint
The complaint is about a claim Mr N made on his Fathers DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) policy.
Mr N says that DAS unreasonably declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr Ns Father has the benefit of a DAS legal expenses insurance policy. Mr N made a claim 
on that policy for cover to bring a claim in another country about breach of his data 
protection rights. 
Mr N wanted DAS to fund his own choice of solicitor in another country. DAS declined and 
said they werent able to instruct lawyers in another country under the terms of his Fathers 
policy. They offered him the use of one of their panel firms and their agents instead. 
Alternatively, Mr N was offered the use of his own lawyer as an agent of a panel firm. Mr N 
wasnt happy with this as he thought he was entitled to freedom to choose his own solicitor 
under his Fathers policy. 
The claim was in any event declined on the basis that DAS said it had no reasonable 
prospects of success as required by the policy. They based this decision on an opinion from 
one of their panel firms with input from a lawyer in the country Mr N wanted to bring a claim. 
Mr N is unhappy because DAS werent amenable to appointing his own solicitor and he feels 
DAS caused considerable delays in dealing with his claim. He wanted DAS to pay him £500 
in recognition of this. After Mr N referred his complaint to this Service, DAS objected to our 
dealing with it on the basis that Mr N is not an eligible complainant under the policy because 
he is not the policyholder and does not always live with him.
Our investigator considered whether we have jurisdiction to look at this complaint in the first 
instance. He concluded that Mr N is an eligible complainant under the policy because he is 
his Fathers carer and he does appear to always live with him, but not necessarily in the UK. 
It's not a policy requirement for the policyholder and his family member to always live 
together in the UK. 
In response, DAS accepted that we did have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ns complaint, so the 
investigator went on to consider the merits of it. He didnt make any determinations in 
respect of Mr Ns freedom to choose his own solicitor because he said DAS were entitled to 
decline cover on the basis that Mr Ns claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
He also thought DAS had caused a delay in appointing a panel firm to consider the claim, 
amounting to least a month so said they should pay Mr N £150 in recognition of this. Mr N 
accepted the investigators view, but DAS didnt. They say they dont believe Mr N and his 
Father have been always living together during the policy period so Mr N isnt entitled to 
claim under the policy. Because of this the matter was passed to me to determine.
I considered this complaint as well as another complaint made by Mr N and his Father 
against DAS where DAS declined cover for the same reasons they cited in response to the 
investigators latest view. I sent out my decision about the other complaint and asked the 
investigator to refer DAS to it. In that complaint I determined that Mr N was entitled to claim 
under the policy and that I was persuaded that he did always live with his Father, but not 
necessarily in the UK. The investigator asked DAS if this changed their position in relation to 
this particular complaint. In response, DAS said it didnt and maintained Mr N isnt eligible to 
claim on his Fathers policy for the same reasons cited in the other complaint. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont intend to make any findings about Mr Ns eligibility to claim on this policy within this 
decision. That issue has already been determined separately by way of a decision I made 
earlier this month. I refer both parties to that decision should they require further clarity on 
the issue. And although DAS had previously objected to our considering this particular 
complaint on its merits, they did accept the investigators view that we had jurisdiction to 
consider it. Taken together, I dont follow why this issue has been rehearsed in response to 
the investigators view by DAS. 
The issues Im determining in this decision are whether DAS were entitled to turn down Mr 
Ns claim in the way that they did and to consider the delays Mr N has referred to. 
The starting point is the policy terms. Mr Ns Fathers policy, like virtually all other before the 
event insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of success. We dont 
think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want 
to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses 
insurance to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly, So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. DAS did this. The panel firm took advice from a lawyer in the 
country in which Mr N wanted to bring a claim and that lawyers advice was that his claim 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
I appreciate that Mr N might not agree with the advice thats been given but that doesnt 
mean that DAS were wrong to decline his claim. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr N has 
provided an alternative opinion from a lawyer of equal standing which supports his claim. If 
he is able to do this, I would expect DAS to review things again in light of that. 
Because I think that DAS were entitled to decline Mr Ns claim in the way they did, I havent 
considered his complaint about freedom to choose his own solicitor. The issue has no 
bearing on the outcome of this complaint so I havent commented on it further.
I have however given thought to the delay DAS caused in dealing with Mr Ns complaint. I 
think DAS could have instructed their panel firm much sooner to consider the claim. Its clear 
from the papers Ive seen that Mr N had provided as much information as he thought he 
needed to in order to allow DAS to do that and there didnt appear to be anything 
outstanding that accounted for the delay. Although DAS acknowledged the delay in July 
2021 there was a further delay of about a month before the panel firm was instructed. So, I 
agree with the investigator that DAS should compensate Mr N for this. The amount of £150 suggested is in line with our approach to awards of this nature so I endorse that that amount 
should be paid. 
Putting things right
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr N £150 in recognition of 
the delay it caused in instructing solicitors to consider his claim. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited and 
direct him them to put things right in accordance with my award above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman