DRN-3475845
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made 
under his Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022, explaining that I was intending 
to uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a high-rise building comprised of several flats. 
Damage has been caused to the common parts of the building, which means other 
leaseholders have been affected, in addition to Mr W. However, this complaint has 
been brought by Mr W only.
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat 
in full detail here. Instead, Ill summarise the key events most relevant to the outcome 
of Mr Ws complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service and my role within it.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  
acting as representatives or agents of either Mr W or Amtrust. But for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mr W and Amtrust in this decision  even when referring to 
the actions or arguments of their representatives.
In March 2019, some cladding boards were blown off of Mr Ws building and caused 
damage to a skylight below. A claim was raised with the relevant building insurer (a 
separate insurer to Amtrust), who accepted the claim under the storm cover and 
dealt with the resultant damage. But it also recommended the remaining cladding 
was replaced, as it said it was defective, which was excluded under that insurers 
policy.
A claim was raised with Amtrust, the New Home Warranty provider, but it wasnt 
accepted. Amtrust accepted that the fixings used to secure the cladding werent 
adequately spaced, in line with the manufacturers recommendations. But it said 
there was no evidence that this is what caused or contributed to the damage. Amtrust 
said the dominant cause of the damage was the storm  which it says is supported 
by the fact that the building insurer accepted and settled the claim. Amtrust also said 
cladding boards wouldnt be covered under the policy in any event, as they werent 
structural or part of the buildings waterproofing envelope which was a claim 
requirement under the terms.
The original builder has since agreed to repair/replace all the cladding, on a without 
prejudice basis. But Mr W, and the leaseholders, are seeking reimbursement of the 
costs they incurred in erecting scaffolding around the building. They say this was 
necessary to encapsulate the building to protect it, and the general public, from 
further risk of damage or injury from falling cladding.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. Our investigator set out that the fees Mr W was seeking to claim would 
only be covered in the event that the claim for the damage was covered under the 
policy terms. She explained that for a claim to be successful under the terms and 
conditions of the warranty, there needed to be a defect (as defined in the terms of the 
warranty) in the structure or waterproof envelope, and the defect needed to be shown 
to be the cause of major damage to the housing unit. She accepted that there was a 
defect  the incorrect spacing of the fixings used to secure the cladding boards  but 
she wasnt persuaded that this defect was the dominant cause of damage. She felt 
the damage had been caused because of the storm, rather than because of the 
defect. She also didnt consider that the cladding boards were part of the buildings 
waterproofing envelope.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. Ill explain why below, starting with an explanation of the cover provided 
under the new home warranty. 
What the warranty covers
Mr W would like Amtrust to cover the costs hes incurred for erecting scaffolding 
following the detachment of cladding boards during a storm. He says the scaffolding 
was necessary to mitigate the imminent risk of further damage to the building and the 
risk to the health and safety to the occupants and general public. Mr W would also 
like to be reimbursed for the cost of the engineers report he, and the residents, 
obtained.
Mr Ws warranty document details the terms, conditions, and definitions applicable to 
the cover it provides. The warranty explains the circumstances where additional 
costs and fees would be covered:
Additional costs 
Such additional costs and expenses as are necessarily incurred by the 
Policyholder solely in order to comply with Building Regulations or Local 
Authority or other Statutory Provisions, provided that the Underwriter shall not 
be liable for those costs that would have been payable by the Policyholder in 
the absence of the discovery of a valid claim under the Policy.Fees 
Such Architects, Engineers, Legal, Consulting Engineers and other fees as 
are necessarily and reasonably incurred, by the Policyholder in relation to the 
complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit but shall 
not include costs or fees incurred by the Policyholder in investigating and/or 
preparing a claim.
Based on the above, the fees incurred for the engineers report wouldnt be covered 
as they were incurred whilst investigating and preparing a claim.
However, the costs incurred in erecting the scaffolding could, potentially, be covered. 
But only in the event that a valid claim under the policy existed. So, in order for me to 
decide that Amtrust needs to reimburse Mr W for his share of the scaffolding costs, 
Id need to be persuaded that Amtrusts decision to decline the claim for damage to 
the building was incorrect. Ill consider this below.
The claim decision
Mr Ws warranty is split into various sections of cover. Section 3.3 
Structural Insurance is the relevant section to Mr Ws claim and complaint. This 
section states:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1) The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing 
Unit which has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the 
liability of the Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of 
rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification.
The warranty defines Major Damage as:
Major Damage
 
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
b)  A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual 
destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for 
which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter. 
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of: 
 the Structure; or 
 the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope 
which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
And it defines the Structure and Waterproof Envelope as:Structure
The following elements shall comprise the Structure of a Housing Unit: 
 foundations; 
 load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard 
rails, walls and roofs, together with load-bearing retaining walls necessary 
for stability; 
 non-load bearing partition walls; 
 chimneys and flues; 
 roof covering; 
 any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the 
water-tightness of the external envelope; 
 floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads; 
 wet applied plaster; 
 double or triple glazed panes to external windows and doors; 
 underground drainage that the Policyholder is responsible for 
maintaining.
Waterproof envelope
Waterproof Envelope shall mean the basement, ground floors, external walls, 
roofs, skylights, windows and doors of a Housing Unit."
What this means is that for this claim to be covered under the terms of the warranty, 
the cladding would need to be considered either structural or part of the waterproof 
envelope. And the defect would need to be considered the proximate cause of the 
damage which occurred. Ill consider these separately below.
Is the cladding structural/part of the waterproofing envelope?
Amtrust initially refused to cover Mr Ws claim on the basis that the cladding boards 
are not part of the structure or waterproof envelope  and so are not covered by the 
warranty at all. Amtrust based this on the opinions of both sets of engineers, its own 
and the residents, who each stated that cladding had been installed for aesthetic 
purposes only.
Mr W doesnt dispute that the cladding may have been installed for aesthetic 
purposes. But hes highlighted that both sets of expert reports also state that when 
the cladding boards were installed, sections of the original wall were cut out so that 
the frame could be attached to the building. Mr W argues that these cut-out sections 
have then compromised the existing waterproofing envelope. Therefore, he says, the 
cladding boards became the new waterproofing envelope when they were installed.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said about this issue. I accept 
that the existing wall would have stood alone as a waterproofing envelope and that 
the cladding boards were only intended to be decorative, rather than an essential 
part of the weatherproofing. But taking into account the views and comments of the 
experts, I agree with Mr W that the cladding boards became part of the waterproofing 
envelope, by virtue of the way they were installed.
I say this because each of the experts have commented that once removed, the 
areas where the frame punches through the original wall would be vulnerable to 
water ingress without some form of remedial action. This means that without the 
cladding boards and frame in situ, the building is not watertight.The definition of structure includes, any external finishing surface (including 
rendering) necessary for the water-tightness of the external envelope. And based on 
everything Ive seen, I think the cladding boards meet this definition, for the reasons 
Ive explained above.
So, I dont think Amtrust can fairly refuse to cover the claim, based solely on the 
argument that the cladding boards arent structural or part of the waterproofing 
envelope.
Ill now go onto consider whether the defect was the proximate cause of the damage.
Is the defect the primary cause of damage?
Mr Ws warranty provides cover for major damage caused by a defect. Having 
considered all the available evidence, its clear there was a defect in the installation 
of the cladding. And this isnt disputed by either party. But the warranty doesnt cover 
defects, in isolation, it covers major damage caused by a defect. So, in order for me 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be persuaded that, even without the 
storm, the major damage would still have occurred when it did, or that there was an 
imminent danger of major damage occurring, due to the defective fixings.
Ive carefully considered all of the available expert evidence. Having done so, on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that the defect was the proximate 
cause of the damage. Ill explain why below.
Its not in dispute that the damage happened during a windstorm or that the 
windstorm would have contributed to the damage which occurred. But having 
reviewed the expert reports, the evidence Ive seen suggests that had the cladding 
been appropriately fixed, in line with the manufacturers instructions, then it would 
have withstood the windstorm.
Mr W, and the residents expert report assessed the wind loading capacity of the 
cladding against the calculated pressure of wind it encountered. For the floor which 
experienced damage, they calculated that the wind pressure it experienced was 1.36 
kN/m2. This is significantly lower than wind load resistance of the fixings, if secured in 
line with the manufacturers instructions  1.85 kN/m2.
The report which looked at the spacing of the fixings, in the most detail, found that 
the majority of them were in excess of the minimum suggested spacing by at least 
50mm and often by 100mm or more. Such increases in the gaps between the fixings 
would significantly reduce the wind loading capacity.
Based on the above it seems more likely than not that, but for the defect, the 
cladding would have withstood the storm and no major damage would have 
occurred.
In addition to the above, Amtrusts own engineer commented on the proximate cause 
of the damage in this case. This report said (with my emphasis):
Its reasonably clear from the survey that the existing render cladding boards 
to the West (sic) face of the staircore (sic) to the tower have not been properly 
fixed and secured in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. 
This is most likely the reason why the boards failed during storm weather.
And:From what I could see of the render cladding board fixings  see for example 
Photos 010-012  they appear in excess of the manufacturers recommended 
maximum spacing of 250mm.
 In most cases, the fixings spacings appear to be around 400-600mm. It is 
therefore reasonable to conclude the cladding boards have detached due to 
insufficient number of fixings holding the boards back.
So, both the engineers reports have highlighted that the proximate cause of damage 
in this case was the defect, rather than the storm. Based on this, I think Mr W has a 
valid claim, under Section 3.3 of the warranty. This is because the building has 
suffered Major Damage as defined, as a result of a Defect as defined, in the 
Structure as defined.
That said, Im aware that the issues with the cladding are now being resolved by the 
original contractors on a without prejudice basis. So, Amtrust wont be required to 
cover the cost of repairing or replacing the render cladding boards. And as I 
understand it, the building insurer already covered the costs of damage caused by 
the falling boards. This means the only costs remaining to be covered are for the 
scaffolding.
Given that Im persuaded the proximate cause of damage was the defect, and that it 
had been a particularly windy week, I consider that it was reasonable and sensible 
for Mr W and the residents to erect scaffolding to protect the building, residents and 
general public from the risk of further falling cladding. And based on this, Im minded 
to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to cover the costs 
incurred by Mr W for the scaffolding. 
Amtrust should also add 8% simple interest to the amount Mr W is due for the 
scaffolding, from the date Mr W can evidence that he was out of pocket, to the date 
he is reimbursed. This is to compensate Mr W for being deprived of the use of that 
money for other purposes.
I said I was intending to direct Amtrust to reimburse Mr W, for any costs hed incurred for the 
scaffolding, and to pay 8% interest on that amount from the date Mr W was out of pocket 
until the date of settlement.
I asked all parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr W responded to say he accepted my provisional decision in principle. But he asked that I 
consider additional costs hed incurred in appointing surveyors to assess the repairs carried 
out by the original builder. He provided the invoices for these repairs, which I shared with 
Amtrust.Amtrust didnt initially respond, other than to confirm receipt of my provisional decision. But 
having received the invoices, it provided further comments. In summary, it said:
The cladding was added to a building which was already watertight, so was cosmetic.
My finding that the way the cladding was installed prevented the original building 
from remaining watertight in the absence of the cladding made sense, but that is 
presumably why the building insurer accepted the claim without referring Mr W to 
Amtrust. The proximate cause of damage was the storm. Until the bad weather 
pulled the cladding off of the property there was no breach of the waterproofing 
envelope.
The policy can only cover the costs of the scaffolding and professional fees in the 
event of a valid claim. The only damage which existed had already been dealt with by 
a separate insurer, so a valid claim cannot exist in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments and evidence provided in response to 
my provisional decision.
Having done so, my conclusions around the validity of Mr Ws claim remain unchanged. I 
say this because I had already considered the arguments put forward by Amtrust prior to 
issuing my provisional decision. And I set out the reasons why I didnt agree with those 
arguments in that provisional decision.
Ultimately, I think the cladding would have withstood the weather, but for the defect with the 
fixings. So, I consider that the defect, not the storm, was the proximate cause of damage. 
I accept that the initial damage was dealt with by the building insurer. But the insurer refused 
to cover the costs of the scaffolding, once it established that there was an inherent 
installation defect with the cladding. So, I dont think Amtrust can fairly refuse to cover 
Mr Ws costs on the basis of the building insurers decision either.
The original builder has now carried out the required remedial works to the cladding on a 
without prejudice basis. But Mr W has provided evidence of additional costs incurred for 
professional fees in signing off the works and checking the fire safety of the builders work.
Amtrust says it could only cover these costs in the event of a valid claim. But as Ive 
explained above, and in my provisional decision, I consider that Mr W does have a valid 
claim under the policy. The only reason Amtrust isnt having to deal with the claim is 
because the buildings insurer, and the original installer, are dealing with elements Amtrust 
wouldve otherwise be responsible for which limits their obligations  but the principle 
remains that Mr W has a valid claim under his policy. So, it follows that I think Amtrust 
should reimburse Mr W for his share of these costs, plus interest from the date he can show 
he was out of pocket to the date of settlement.
However, I note that two of the invoices supplied by Mr W relate to the original reports and 
surveys carried out to identify why the cladding failed. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the warranty doesnt cover professional fees incurred in preparing a claim. So, I 
dont expect Amtrust to cover Mr Ws share of these particular costs.There are other leaseholders, with Amtrust warranties, affected by the issues considered in 
this complaint. It would be in Amtrusts interests to settle the other leaseholders costs on the 
below basis, to avoid similar complaints. However, those leaseholders arent party to this 
complaint, so Im unable to make a formal direction for their costs in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 
Amtrust Europe Limited must:
Reimburse Mr W for the costs he incurred for the scaffolding.
Reimburse Mr W for the costs he incurred for professional fees during the cladding 
replacement but excluding those incurred in preparation of the claim.
To these amounts add 8% simple interest* from the date(s) Mr W can evidence he 
was personally out of pocket to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
*If Amtrust Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman