DRN-3926736
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway, handled 
problems he had a with car it supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2020 Moneyway supplied a car to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement. The
cash price of the car was £5,999 and this was financed in whole by the agreement. The car
was around five years old and had travelled around 51,500 miles at the time of supply.
In October 2020 Mr M had problems with the clutch. Moneyways contact notes from the
time show Mr M wanted a garage of his choosing (T) to carry out the repair. Moneyway
agreed that Mr M would pay the garage for the repairs and it would reimburse him for this
shortly after. Moneyway told Mr M that if the repairs didnt solve the problem, hed need to
go back to T as it had warranted the repair.
Mr M said he had further problems with the clutch in June 2022. He took the car back to T
who said the problem had been caused by the flywheel. T fitted a new clutch and flywheel
under warranty from the previous repair.
Mr M complained to Moneyway about what had gone wrong. He said, in summary, that hed 
been treated unfairly by Moneyway because he had to sort out the problems with the car 
himself and it should have done more to help him. He also said he should have been 
supplied with a car that was fault free.
Moneyway said there was insufficient evidence that the problem with flywheel was present 
when the car was supplied to Mr M. So, it said it wasnt responsible for it and didnt uphold 
his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 setting out why I didnt plan to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I said in summary:
The problem Mr M experienced with the clutch had been fixed at no cost to him and 
he hadnt reported any problems with the car since then. So, Moneyway didnt need 
to take any action in respect of repairing the car. 
Mr M said he wanted to keep the car, so I didnt need to consider whether he had the 
right to reject it either. 
If I thought Moneyway had done something wrong, like supplying a car to him that 
was not satisfactory quality and this had caused him distress or inconvenience or 
meant he couldnt use the car I could ask Moneyway to do something, like pay Mr M 
compensation. 
I didnt think Moneyway had done anything wrong because there was insufficient 
evidence the car supplied to him was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I also didnt think Moneyway had acted unreasonably towards Mr M when he told it 
about the faults in 2020 and 2022. It paid for the first repair and the second repair 
had already been completed by T at no cost to Mr M before he made Moneyway 
aware of the fault. And Moneyway had assessed its liability to him and 
communicated its answer to him on this in good time. 
I didnt therefore think Moneyway had treated Mr M unfairly and didnt need to do 
anything in respect of his complaint. 
Moneyway didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said hed provided evidence from T that 
the fault with the flywheel diagnosed in June 2022 was present from the point of supply. He 
also said that hed never asked Moneyway for compensation. The complaint was therefore 
referred back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ms response to my provisional decision. The job sheet completed by T for the 
2022 repair did indeed explain that high spots on the flywheel were the cause of the fault 
with the clutch. But it didnt comment on how long this could have been happening. If this 
was a fault that was present when the car was supplied, or had manifested shortly after, its 
not unreasonable to think it would have been picked up by T when it replaced the clutch in 
2020 given the proximity and interaction between these two parts. 
However, without the job sheet from the 2020 repair, I dont know whether T checked the 
flywheel or not and if it did, whether it found a problem. I also dont know whether T replaced 
or resurfaced the flywheel  as research suggests should be done when a new clutch is 
fitted. So, Ive still not seen enough to suggest the fault diagnosed in 2022 was the same as 
that diagnosed in 2020 or that Moneyway had any obligation to Mr M to put it right. 
If the fault wasnt present at the point of supply and is something thats developed over the 
20 months Mr M was driving the car after the clutch was replaced then given the time Mr M 
had it, the distance he travelled and the age and milage of the car to begin with, this wouldnt 
make the car of unsatisfactory quality.   
Either way, Ive still not seen enough to make me think Moneyway treated Mr M unfairly. And 
looking again at Moneyways contact notes, I still find it acted reasonably towards him 
whenever he made it aware of any problems with the car. 
Mr M said he never asked for compensation. But hes also said before that he doesnt want 
to give the car back and it doesnt appear there is anything else that has gone wrong with it 
since the clutch was repaired. Mr M hasnt asked Moneyway to help in other way with the car 
 like repairing it or allowing him to reject it. And when the investigator asked Mr M to clarify 
what he was seeking from the complaint, he didnt respond. So, its not clear what exactly Mr 
M wants from Moneyway if he doesnt want any of these things or any form of compensation.  
In any event, Ive concluded Moneyway didnt do anything wrong. So, I still dont find that it 
needs to do anything more in respect of Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman