DRN-2792318
The complaint
Mr F complains about his mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited. He says the 
mortgage was unfairly lent, and this has led to him being trapped with Landmark. He says 
that as a result Landmark have taken advantage of him by keeping him on an 
uncompetitively high interest rate, which hasnt been reduced to reflect changes in base rate. 
What happened
Mr F took out a together mortgage with the former Northern Rock bank in 2007. He 
borrowed around £95,000 on the main mortgage on interest only terms, and a further 
£20,000 as a linked unsecured loan. 
Mr F took an initial five year fixed rate, which was applied to both parts of his borrowing. 
When the rate expired in 2012, the loans reverted to a discount rate  a rate which was 
guaranteed to be below the standard variable rate (SVR). In practice, the discount was set at 
0.01% - so Mr F is paying just below the SVR.
In the meantime, Northern Rock had collapsed in the financial crisis of 2007-8. It was 
nationalised and Mr Fs loan was moved to a successor company, NRAM. It was sold on to 
Landmark in 2015. 
Neither NRAM nor Landmark offer new interest rates, and so Mr Fs mortgage and 
unsecured loan have remained on the discount rate since 2012.
Mr F complained to Landmark, and then to us. He said that hed wanted to switch from 
interest only to repayment, but hadnt been able to do so because the payments would be 
too high. And hed wanted to move his mortgage elsewhere, but hadnt been able to do that 
either. 
Mr F said that he considered the original borrowing to have been unaffordable, and to have 
been unfairly lent to him as a result. That had led to him being trapped with NRAM and then 
Landmark, unable to move elsewhere. And he had been forced to pay a high interest rate, 
which was uncompetitive compared to other lenders and hadnt reduced when the Bank of 
England base rate had reduced. He said he understood that lenders were required to pass 
on rate cuts. He didnt think it fair that his mortgage had moved between different lenders, 
and thought this was a way to avoid any one lender being to blame for his situation.
Landmark said that part of the complaint was made out of time. I have already issued a 
decision setting out that we can only consider matters that happened since December 2013, 
six years before Mr F first made this complaint. We cannot consider the sale or lending 
decision, or interest charged before that date.
This decision sets out my findings on the matters we can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs mortgage is governed by the terms and conditions and the mortgage offer. The 
mortgage offer sets out the interest rate which will apply. It says:
This secured mortgage is based on the following interest rate periods:
a fixed rate of 5.89% until 1 February 2012
followed by
a variable rate which is guaranteed to be below Northern Rocks Standard 
Variable Rate, which is currently 7.09%, for the remainder of the term of the 
mortgage. 
If Northern Rocks Standard variable rate changes, we will review the interest 
rate applicable to your mortgage on the first working day of the following 
month. We will then notify you in writing of your new interest rate and 
payment, which will take effect from the first day of the month following the 
review. We will follow this procedure whether Northern Rocks Standard 
Variable Rate rises or falls.
The mortgage terms and conditions say that Northern Rock may transfer the mortgage to 
another lender  in this case, to NRAM and then to Landmark. The terms say that On any 
transfer of the mortgage, we as transferor will enter into an agreement with the person to 
whom we transfer the mortgage (the transferee) under which  the transferee will agree 
that its policy on handling arrears and exercising any discretion in the setting of interest rates 
will be identical to our policy as at the date of the transfer. The agreement will apply for 
minimum of three months after the transfer When the agreement comes to an end or is 
terminated the transferee may set its own policy on handling arrears and exercising any 
discretion in the setting of interest rates.
The mortgage terms and conditions contain no further provision about the interest rate or 
changes to it. The mortgage offer therefore confirms that the reversion rate is linked to the 
SVR  but it doesnt specify the level of the discount, or specify how or when the SVR might 
change or what powers Northern Rock had to vary it. It is envisaged that the SVR  and so 
the discount rate  might change and that the lender from time to time has discretion in the 
setting of interest rates. But there is nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions 
which sets out how that discretion is to be exercised or what factors should be considered. 
Therefore the lender has a very broad discretion in setting the rate, as long as it is below the 
SVR  but in my view that discretion, while broad, needs to be exercised fairly.
In practice, once Mr F reverted to the discount rate, NRAM set it at 0.01% below SVR. 
Mr Fs mortgage rate has followed SVR  with the same 0.01% discount  ever since. These 
are the changes to the mortgage rate since, compared to the Bank of England base rate.
Mortgage rate (SVR 
less discount)Base rate Comments
February 2012 4.78% 0.5% Reversion date
November 2016 4.63% 0.25% Base rate falls 
0.25%; mortgage 
rate falls 0.15%
January 2018 4.78% 0.5% Base rate rises 0.25%; mortgage 
rate rises 0.15%
October 2018 5.03% 0.75% Base rate rises 
0.25%; mortgage 
rate rises 0.25%
April 2020 4.38% 0.1% Base rate falls 
0.65%; mortgage 
rate falls 0.65%
was the discount rate fair?
In my jurisdiction decision, I explained that we can only consider the interest charged on 
Mr Fs mortgage for the six years before he complained  that is, from December 2013 
onwards.
By the start of the period I can look at, Mr F was already on the discount rate. And NRAM 
hadnt made any changes to the SVR  and, by extension, Mr Fs discount rate  in the time 
between when it began to apply to Mr Fs mortgage in 2012 and the start of the period I can 
look at in December 2013. So there is nothing in that period  of itself out of time for the 
purposes of this complaint  which might impact on the charges that I can consider.
Ive quoted above what the mortgage offer says about the interest rate. It makes clear the 
rate charged to Mr Fs mortgage is linked to NRAMs SVR. And while theres nothing in there 
about how the SVR is set  or how it can be changed  there is no suggestion that either this 
mortgage or the SVR itself is linked to the Bank of England base rate.
At the start of the period I can look at, NRAMs SVR was 4.78%. That was broadly in line 
with the sorts of SVR rates active mainstream mortgage lenders offered at the time, and I 
dont think the SVR was of itself inherently unfair because of its level. And while the discount 
was the smallest it could possibly be, it was nevertheless a discount and therefore to that 
extent the rate NRAM charged Mr F was charged in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. 
Ill explain in more detail below why I dont think it was unfair that Mr F was on the discount 
rate  as opposed to, for example, a new fixed rate. But given that he was fairly on the 
discount rate, I think the discount rate at the start of the period I can look at was not an unfair 
rate. And it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Mr F to be charged that rate over the 
following months and years.
Ive then gone on to think about whether it was fair for Landmark  which was by then Mr Fs 
lender  to have changed the SVR and discount rate in 2016, 2018 and 2020. 
From December 2013 the discount rate only varied at the same time as the Bank of England 
base rate also changed.
As Ive said, the SVR  and so the discount rate  wasnt linked to the Bank of England base 
rate and theres nothing in the mortgage offer or terms which obliges NRAM or Landmark to 
pass on changes to the base rate.
And as Ive also said, the mortgage offer and terms dont set out what factors NRAM or 
Landmark could consider in making changes to base rate  and they dont say that base rate 
is a factor that it has to consider.Nevertheless, I recognise that many lenders  though not all  did pass on base rate 
changes in their SVR rates. And Ive noted that Landmark did do so in October 2018 and 
2020. 
Part of Mr Fs complaint is that the rate hes charged didnt reflect changes in the Bank of 
England base rate. So Ive thought about whether it was fair that Landmark didnt pass on 
the base rate changes in full when reducing the rate in November 2016, and when 
increasing it in January 2018.
Landmark has explained to us how it made that decision, and the sorts of factors it took into 
account. The detailed information it has given us about that is commercially sensitive, and so 
its something that I think its reasonable for the ombudsman service to consider in 
confidence.
But in summary, Landmark has explained that it considered in 2016 whether or not to pass 
on the base rate cut. Its explained that the interest rates it charges are not based on or 
directly linked to the Bank of England base rate; theyre linked to the costs it has to pay itself 
in respect of the funds lent on its mortgages. It incurs those costs on an ongoing basis. It 
calculated that its own costs would only reduce enough to justify a 0.15% reduction, so it 
reduced its SVR by that amount.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that was fair. Landmark recognised that base rate 
had fallen and that its customers might expect it to reduce the SVR, as other lenders had  
even though it wasnt contractually required to do so, it reduced the SVR (and so Mr Fs 
discount rate) by the amount it expected its own costs to fall, balancing the interests of its 
customers in reducing the interest charged to them and its own interests in not reducing its 
revenues by more than its costs reduced. 
And when base rate rose in 2018, reversing the 2016 fall, Landmark didnt pass on the full 
base rate rise  rather, it reversed the 2016 cut it had made to its own SVR.
Taking everything into account, therefore, Im satisfied that Landmark has charged Mr F a 
fair rate of interest. It has maintained the discount set out in the mortgage offer, and only 
changed the discount rate it charged him when the underlying SVR changed. Mr Fs 
complaint is that Landmark and its predecessors charged him an unfairly high rate that didnt 
reflect changes in base rate. I dont think the discount rate or the SVR underlying it was 
unfairly high compared to the SVR rates other lenders change. It wasnt required to track or 
reflect base rate. And to the extent that, over the period I can consider, changes to the 
discount rate and SVR didnt reflect changes to base rate, I think Landmark has fairly 
explained why that is the case. 
was it fair that Mr F was on the discount rate? 
Mr F was on the discount rate because his fixed rate came to an end in 2012. By that point, 
Northern Rock had collapsed and been nationalised, and Mr Fs mortgage had been 
transferred to NRAM. Neither NRAM, nor later Landmark, offered new interest rate deals 
and so Mr F has had to remain on the discount rate.
I do understand why Mr F is unhappy about that, when he sees that other lenders do offer 
their customers new rates lower than their SVR rates, when his lender doesnt.
But I dont think Landmark or its predecessors have treated him unfairly. His mortgage has 
operated exactly as the terms and conditions and mortgage offer said it would  with a fixed 
rate until 2012 and then a discount rate. Nothing in the offer or the terms and conditions say that Landmark or its predecessors was obliged to offer a new rate, or that he was entitled to 
one.
And its important to note as well that all Landmark and NRAMs customers were in the same 
position  no new rates were available to any customers, so Mr F hasnt been treated 
differently to other customers in the same position as him. 
Theres nothing in the mortgage terms and conditions that would prevent Mr F moving his 
mortgage elsewhere. I recognise that the fact hes on interest only terms  and the fact that 
he has a linked together loan  might make it more difficult for him to move his mortgage to 
another lender. Its much harder to take out an interest only mortgage now than it was in 
2007, when Mr F took out this mortgage. But that couldnt have been predicted when he took 
the mortgage out, and Landmark isnt standing in his way  for example, by imposing an 
early repayment charge. 
I dont therefore think that Landmark has treated Mr F unfairly by not offering new interest 
rates. Theres no regulatory requirement to do so, nothing in the mortgage contract that 
requires it, and Landmark isnt preventing him moving to another lender. Mr F is being 
treated the same as all Landmarks other customers.
what should Landmark do to assist Mr F?
However, Landmark is a closed lender. And I think its good practice for closed lenders, who 
dont offer new interest rates, to make specialist regulated mortgage advice available to their 
customers. Im pleased to see that in its final response to his complaint, Landmark gave 
Mr F details of a mortgage specialist who may be able to advise him on moving his mortgage 
elsewhere.
Since he first made his complaint, the rules of mortgage regulation have changed. Its now 
easier for borrowers like Mr F who are with closed lenders to move their mortgages to active 
lenders that offer new interest rates. Thats because the regulator has relaxed the rules 
around affordability and interest only lending to allow active lenders to take on customers of 
closed lenders.
The regulator required closed lenders to write to customers who could benefit from this rule 
change, so Mr F should have received a letter by now explaining his options.
Not all active lenders are taking advantage of this new flexibility, however. So the regulator 
has made available a list of mortgage advisers who can advise borrowers on which lenders 
to apply to and whether they are likely to be successful. Mr F might want to consult that list 
to find an adviser in his local area who can help him explore moving his mortgage to an 
active lender. He can find the list here:
https://www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk/en/articles/help-for-mortgage-prisoners#how-do-i-
get-help-and-what-do-i-do-next
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman