DRN-3480019
The complaint
Miss D complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money she lost when 
she fell victim to an investment scam.
Miss D is being represented by a claims management company in her complaint.
What happened
Miss D became interested in a property development investment opportunity after watching 
videos of a firm, L, on social media. She reached out to a representative, an investment 
manager, who persuaded her to invest money in a development project overseas. Miss D 
was recommended to open an e-money account with an electronic money institution (EMI) to 
facilitate the investment funding. Funds were deposited into that account from her current 
account with Santander over a number of transactions. 
One of the transactions  the second payment  flagged on the banks systems and Miss D 
needed to contact Santander to discuss it. The agent questioned her about the payment, 
and she confirmed that she was sending money to her own account which shed recently 
opened. Miss D also told the agent that no one had been involved in helping her set it up, 
and she hadnt been asked to download anything on her device. The payment was released, 
and subsequent payments to the same account were executed without further questioning.
A further transaction was blocked by Santander when Miss D attempted to send money to 
an overseas account. The bank phoned her to discuss the nature of this payment, and 
Miss D confirmed she was investing in a property overseas  the same country where she 
was sending the money to. The agent asked her what research shed done and how she 
found out about the opportunity. They also told Miss D that the bank had seen an increase in 
scams and wanted to make sure she had done her checks before proceeding. Miss D said 
she was happy to proceed, and the payment was released. There were two further 
international payments from Miss Ds account  to the same payee  which were made over 
the next two days.
Miss D discovered shed been scammed when she received an account closure notification 
from the EMI she had recently opened an account with. She reported the scam to that firm 
as well as Santander. Unhappy with their response, the matter was referred to our service. 
Miss Ds complaint about the EMI is being considered separately by our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds concerns as they werent persuaded that Santander 
could have done more to prevent her losses. They were also satisfied that the bank did what 
it could to try and recover the funds once it became aware of the scam. 
Miss D and her representative dont agree with the investigators findings and have asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
The following transactions, made from Miss Ds Santander account in October 2021, are 
relevant to this complaint 
Date Type/Payee Amount
8 October Debit card payment to EMI £5.00
12 October Faster payment to EMI £3,000.00
13 October Faster payment to EMI £4,200.00 (flagged)
14 October Faster payment to EMI £4,200.00
14 October Faster payment to EMI £4,200.00
14 October Faster payment to EMI £4,200.00
14 October Faster payment to EMI £3,999.00
15 October Faster payment to EMI £4,200.00
15 October Faster payment to EMI £13,500.00
17 October Credit from EMI (reversal) £4,200.00 (credit)
17 October Credit from EMI (reversal) £13,500.00 (credit) 
18 October International payment £17,208.65 (plus £25 charge) (flagged)
19 October International payment £17,257.97 (plus £25 charge)
20 October International payment £14,631.14 (plus £25 charge)
Scam payments total £90,676.76
Credits total £17,700.00
Total loss £72,976.76
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been awaiting an ombudsmans decision for some time. So firstly, Im 
sorry that Miss D and Santander have had to wait this long. Also, Id like to reassure the 
parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this complaint, Ive read and 
considered everything in its entirety. 
Miss D says her dealings were with a representative from L. Ive done my own research into 
L, but very little information is available about it in the public domain. I can see it has been 
registered in an EU member state since July 2021, although it appears to have recently gone 
into liquidation. This in and of itself isnt evidence that L was set up with the specific purpose 
of scamming customers. But Miss D claims that she was scammed, and Santander hasnt 
disputed this. So, Ive proceeded on that basis.
At the outset, it has been difficult to unpick what exactly happened at the time the payments 
were made. Miss D reported the scam just days after the last payment was made. Although I 
appreciate that she may have still been trying to piece together what had happened when 
she reported the matter, gaps remain in what shes since told her representative and our 
service. Miss D has also given conflicting information about the disputed payments. 
For instance, when Santander intervened on 13 October 2021, Miss D confirmed it was her 
making the payment in question to her own account. During the call, she also confirmed 
making the previous payment to the same account. Yet around a week later, when she 
reported the scam to the EMI, Miss D said she hadnt transferred the funds from her 
Santander account. Later, she acknowledged that she had.
Similarly, when Santander intervened on 18 October 2021, Miss D confirmed the payment 
was genuine and she answered the agents questions. But when our investigator phoned her 
last year and requested further clarification, Miss D told them that although she did authorise 
the first international payment, she thought it was from her account with the EMI. Ive 
listened to the call recording and can hear the investigator reminding Miss D that it was Santander who had phoned her at the time to discuss the payment. Miss D can be heard 
saying, no I thought it was my [EMI] account.  
I do appreciate that the payments were made nearly two years ago. But these differing 
recollections naturally cast a doubt on the credibility of Miss Ds testimony. In this situation, 
my role is to weigh up the evidence we do have and decide on the balance of probabilities 
whats most likely to have happened. For these reasons, Ive relied and placed more weight 
on the documentary evidence available to reach a view on what happened. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether, on balance, I think Miss D authorised the disputed 
payments. Broadly speaking, Miss D is responsible for any payments that she has 
authorised, and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
Miss D has already accepted that she authorised the payments to her e-money account with 
the EMI, as well as the first international payment. Having considered all the evidence and 
information available, I think, on balance, its most likely that she also authorised the 
remaining international payments. The technical evidence Santander has provided shows 
that on the day of the relevant payments, online banking access was gained from the same 
IP address that was used for the earlier payments (which Miss D has confirmed she 
authorised). This means that Miss Ds account wasnt accessed from any other location. 
Even if Miss D had granted remote access to the scammer at these times, and the 
suggestion is that the scammer initiated the payments, each transaction was approved using 
a one-time passcode (OTP) which was sent to Miss Ds registered mobile number. When 
questioned, she told our investigator that she shared the OTP with the scammer whenever 
they rang her and asked for it. 
Santander has provided a copy of the text containing the OTP which it says it sent at the 
time. The text reads, OTP to MAKE AN INTERNATIONAL PAYMENT of XXXXX.XX to a/c 
ending XXXX. Call us if this wasnt you. NEVER share this code, not even with Santander 
staff.
I understand Miss D told her representative that she shared the OTPs with the scammer as 
she believed it was to verify her investment account. But the above casts doubt on her 
recollections, seeing as the message she would have needed to read in order to share the 
OTP made it sufficiently clear that the code was for making a payment. Its also worth noting 
that the message warned Miss D not to share the code.
As Im persuaded that Miss D most likely authorised the disputed transactions, shes 
considered liable for the loss  even if she was duped into making the payments  unless 
theres evidence that Santander could and should reasonably have done more to protect her 
against the risk of fraud and scams and that this would have made a difference to her 
decision-making.
Looking at the account history, I find that Santander intervened at the correct point as I dont 
think payments 1 and 2 ought to have triggered as being unusual. Ive listened to the call 
recording between Santander and Miss D on 13 October 2021, a copy of which has also 
been shared with her representative. Ive carefully considered the concerns that have been 
put forward for why the intervention didnt go far enough. However, I find that the intervention 
was sufficient in the circumstances of this case. The agent enquired where the money was 
going [an account Miss D had recently set up], whether anyone was involved in setting up 
the beneficiary account [no], and whether shed been asked to download anything [no]. 
The conversation that followed was based on Miss Ds answers. It is clear she was very 
unhappy about being asked all these questions. At one point Miss D is heard saying, who are you to tell me where I should send my money? and this account pays me no interest. 
Im not suggesting that angry or unhappy customers shouldnt be properly questioned by the 
bank. Im merely highlighting that given Miss Ds state of mind, and her answers to previous 
questions, Im not persuaded that further questioning along the lines of what the 
representative has suggested  why she was sending so much money to her account with 
an EMI; if she was planning on making international payments, etc.  would have resulted in 
a different outcome. 
During the call, Miss D had already told Santander that she was looking for a bank account 
for her son when she came across the EMI. And that she decided to apply for herself 
because she liked the colour of the debit card. We know that this isnt why Miss D opened an 
account with the EMI. Im not convinced that further probing, including questioning her about 
why she had opened an account with an EMI simply based on the colour of its debit card, 
would have resulted in her saying anything that might have raised concerns. 
It is also worth pointing out that only days later, when the EMI questioned the purpose of two 
transfers from Miss Ds Santander account into her account with it, she said it was for paying 
bills and making online payments. I think its likely that this is what she would have told 
Santander had it questioned her further. I think its important to note that the EMI does offer 
those facilities.
Ultimately, the payment was going to an account in Miss Ds name that she confirmed she 
had set up without anyone elses involvement. Shed already said it was her decision where 
to send her money  including sending it abroad, seeing as she mentioned a countrys 
name. Given that the EMI specialises in international transfers, I dont think Santander ought 
to have discussed investment scams in the way the representative has argued. 
Overall, I find that the intervention was sufficient and so Im satisfied Santander acted 
reasonably. Miss D made four payments to her EMI account the following day. These were 
released without additional enquiries. Even if Santander had paused some or all of them, Im 
not persuaded Miss Ds answers would have been any different from those shed previously 
given.
The first international payment triggered an alert on Santanders fraud detection system and 
it phoned Miss D to discuss it. Again, Ive listened to the call recording, and Ive considered 
her representatives comments. I acknowledge that the agent could have questioned Miss D 
further  its easy to be critical with the benefit of hindsight  but I dont agree that the agent 
didnt probe at all. The agent asked whether she had been approached by anyone or had 
researched the opportunity herself, and Miss D confirmed she had looked it up herself. She 
also said she was investing with other people, and that they were into buying property and 
doing it up. 
The agent went on to ask Miss D how she came across this specific opportunity, and 
whether shed seen any paperwork or contracts. Miss D confirmed that she had. The agent 
explained that all banks had seen an increase in scams, and they wanted to make sure the 
opportunity was legitimate, and that Miss D had done her checks before she was sending 
the money. She was asked again if the company had given her paperwork and Miss D 
confirmed that she had. I find that the call served the purpose of identifying a fraud risk, 
providing a sufficient scam warning, and checking that Miss D had carried out sufficient due 
diligence. 
The representative submits that Santander didnt ask for the name of the investment 
company to check if it was a regulated investment. But the beneficiarys name was the 
investment company itself  L  and Miss D also confirmed it again during the call. And, as 
far as I can tell, it wasnt an investment company in the literal sense; L was a property development / construction company. So, Im unsure about the relevance of checking 
whether the investment was regulated. Its unclear whether the agent researched the 
company before or during their call with Miss D. But in any event, if a check has been carried 
out, L would have come up on the EU member states company register  indicating that it 
had been properly registered with the local authorities. 
Miss Ds representative also submits that Santander asked for the details of the investment 
and Miss D said she didnt have any details other than it was a property in a certain country. 
They argue that the bank should have seen this as a huge red flag as Miss D should have 
been able to explain key details, such as the name of the investment firm, the location, price, 
and the configuration of the property. 
That isnt what happened during the call. After questioning her about the transaction, 
Santander had asked to go over the payment details and Miss D said she didnt have them 
at the time. That is why the agent went on to explain that normally the bank would want to 
double check the details before processing the payment. But that the payment in question 
could be released if Miss D was happy with the details shed entered online when she 
authorised it. 
Theres no suggestion that Miss D wouldnt have been able to answer what her 
representative has referred to as key details had Santander questioned her further. In fact, 
as Ive already mentioned, during the call she did confirm she wanted to pay L. It might be 
that Ive misunderstood Miss Ds representative, and what theyre saying is that shes since 
told them she wouldnt have been able to provide the information had she been asked at that 
time. But Miss Ds recollections have already been called into question. If, as claimed during 
the call, she was into buying property and doing it up, and shed actively sought this 
opportunity, it seems unlikely that she wouldnt have received some information from L (like 
a brochure or a sales prospectus) at the very least which would have enabled her to provide 
that information.
Overall, Im not persuaded that further questioning at the time of the international payment 
would have led to a different decision-making on Miss Ds part. The next two payments went 
to the same payee. Given that Santander had already made enquiries about the nature of 
the previous payment to that payee, I dont think the bank acted unreasonably by not 
contacting Miss D again when she authorised the subsequent payments. That means, I cant 
fairly hold Santander liable for Miss Ds loss.
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds after 
it became aware of the situation, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered. In 
relation to the payments to Miss Ds account with the EMI, we know funds had already been 
transferred out by the time the scam was reported. So, a recall request wouldnt have been 
successful. As for the international payments, I can see Santander sent a recall request to 
the beneficiary bank. But it was told funds couldnt be recovered unless the beneficiary 
consented, or the request came from a local authority. Under the circumstances, I dont think 
Santander could have done anything more to recover Miss Ds funds.
I recognise that Miss D will be very disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. I recognise that theres a lot of money involved 
here. But having considered the available information, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be 
fair of me to hold Santander responsible for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman