DRN-3756935
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt honour the uninsured driver 
promise when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund of his 
policy excess. 
What happened
Mr As car was hit by another driver. The driver was uninsured and the cars number plates 
were found to have been cloned. Mr A provided the cars details to Admiral, but not the other 
drivers identity. Admiral said he hadnt met the terms and conditions of its uninsured driver 
promise and declined to refund Mr As policy excess. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see that the 
policy required Mr A to provide details of the other driver. And he couldnt see any reference 
to cloned number plates in the policy. He thought Mr A had provided the required details of 
the other car and so he thought Mr A had met the terms and conditions of the uninsured 
driver promise. He thought Admiral should refund his policy excess and pay Mr A £100 
compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Admiral replied that it hadnt said Mr A needed to provide the drivers details. It said the 
policy stated that it required the other cars registration number. It said this hadnt been 
provided as the car was on cloned plates. And so it said it wasnt required to refund Mr As 
policy excess. It said its policy wording was in keeping with industry practice. Mr A replied 
that he thought Admiral should have made it clear that cars with cloned plates were 
excluded from its promise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated by Admirals decision as he hasnt had a refund of 
his £750 policy excess. Hes explained that this has had serious financial consequences for 
him. And I can see that its now a year on from the incident. Our approach in cases like this 
is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral declined to refund the policy excess as it said the other car had cloned number 
plates and so it couldnt identify anyone to make a claim against. The relevant policy term 
and condition is stated on page 6 of the policy booklet:
If you are involved in an accident with an uninsured driver and it was not your fault, your No 
Claims Bonus will not be reduced, providing you can supply the make, model, and 
registration number of the vehicle. If your claim is not settled when your renewal is due, your 
No Claims Bonus may be reduced, and you may have to pay a higher price. However, once 
we confirm the uninsured driver was at fault, we will reinstate your No Claims Bonus and 
refund any additional premium you have paid as a result of your No Claims Bonus being 
reduced. Once your claim is settled, we will refund any excess you have paid.
And on page 16, it states that claims caused by an uninsured driver wont affect the No 
Claims Bonus. 
I cant see that the policy says there are exclusions for where the other drivers car had 
cloned plates, for where the other driver hadnt been identified or for where Admiral hadnt 
recovered its losses. 
I can see from Admirals file that Mr A provided the make, model and registration number of 
the van that hit his car. I can see that Admiral held Mr A not at fault although it recorded a 
claim as the other driver had driven off. And I can see that the claim was marked as closed 
and settled in March 2022. 
Im satisfied that Mr A met the terms and conditions of the policy. And so I think Admiral 
should have then fairly and reasonably refunded Mr As policy excess in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. It didnt do so, and I think this caused Mr A trouble and upset. 
The Investigator recommended that Admiral should pay Mr A £100 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr As £750 policy excess and pay 
him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman