DRN-3054283
The complaint
Ms A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a payment she didnt receive from her 
account.
What happened
Ms A says she tried to withdraw £200 from her account on 9 December 2020. But the cash 
machine didnt dispense the money. And her two further attempts werent successful either. 
The payment has been debited from her account and she wants it to be refunded.
Monzo said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that it had initially made a refund but 
had heard back from the owner of the cash machine. And as it didnt think that a mistake had 
been made it had re-debited the money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had seen information 
about the payment including the journal roll from the cash machine. This showed that the 
money was dispensed at the first attempt. And then there were Ms As two further attempts 
when no more money was dispensed. The cash machine owner had said that there were no 
malfunctions at that time or other disputed withdrawals in December 2020. The machine had 
balanced when it was next checked.
Ms A didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She didnt accept that this was 
an accurate outcome and said that the reason why she requested the money on three 
occasions was because it hadnt been dispensed. She wanted an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
understand Ms As point that her two further attempts to withdraw money were consistent 
with her not receiving money the first time. And I can see from her bank statement that she 
had received a credit for £200 that day and says she didnt expect to be able to withdraw 
more than that to pay for some work on her property.
As our investigator has said weve also seen information provided to Monzo by the owner of 
the cash machine. Withdrawals were successfully made before and after Ms A used the 
machine. The information about the number of notes in the machine changed in line with 
there having been 10 £20 notes dispensed to Ms A on her first request. There were no error 
messages in the journal roll and no evidence of any notes being rejected then. The machine 
balanced and there are no other reports of problems.
I need to consider if Monzo has made a mistake in debiting Ms As account with this money 
and ought to have done more to investigate what happened. Im afraid that on balance I find 
it most likely that the money was correctly dispensed. And so, I know Ms A will be very 
disappointed when I say I dont have a reasonable to require Monzo to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman