DRN-3177014
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam 
and lost £1,871.
What happened
Ms L was searching online for university accommodation. She found what looked like a 
legitimate advert on a reputable website. She contacted who she believed to be the owner of 
the property to discuss terms. Ms L didnt know at the time, but she was speaking with a 
fraudster.
Ms L wanted to go ahead with the accommodation and so sent £1,871 to an overseas bank 
account, using the payee details given to her by the fraudster. But when Ms L didnt receive 
further contact from the supposed landlord the scam was revealed, and she contacted 
HSBC to report the matter.
HSBC contacted the recipient bank in attempt to recover Ms Ls money but was informed 
that no funds could be returned. HSBC went on to tell Ms L it wouldnt be refunding her loss 
as she had properly authorised the payment and it had followed her instructions.
Ms L was unhappy with the banks response and so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said the bank had acted fairly 
and reasonably in following Ms Ls payment instruction. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Im now reviewing the complaint as Ms L remained dissatisfied with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L but Im not upholding her complaint. I have no doubt she was 
completely convinced she was engaged in a legitimate transaction at the time she sent the 
money for the accommodation. Indeed the evidence shes provided does demonstrate there 
were sophisticated elements to the scam. But that doesnt mean that its for the bank to 
refund her loss.
The starting position in law is that Ms L is responsible for all payments out of her account 
that she authorises. This is set out in the Payment service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). And it 
applies even where a customer has been tricked into making a payment under false 
pretences, as is the case here.
I can see from Ms Ls submissions to the bank and this service reference has been made to 
the CRM Code. This is in place to help the victims of APP scams, like the one Ms L has 
fallen victim to. Signatories (including HSBC) ought to refund customers in all but limited 
circumstances. But the Code doesnt apply to all transactions made on a customers 
account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to the one Ms L made as it was an international 
payment; the Code only applies to payments made between UK based accounts.
The Code may not apply here, but there are other considerations beyond the PSRs. These 
include industry best practice and guidance, along with the broader regulatory landscape, 
concerning banks monitoring accounts for unusual and suspicious transactions. Broadly 
speaking, there will be times when a bank ought to step in to question an authorised 
payment. 
A bank does have an obligation to follow its customers instructions and to do so quickly. 
There otherwise needs to be sufficient cause for concern that a valid payment instruction 
presents a fraud risk or indicates a customer is at risk of suffering financial harm. If those 
conditions  which arent precisely defined  are met then a bank might be expected to 
pause on executing an instruction.
In Ms Ls case, I dont believe the payment was so remarkable that HSBC ought to have 
suspected it was being made as the result of a scam or presented some other fraud risk. I 
acknowledge that the amount sent represented more than Ms L would typically pay from her 
account. And it is true that she hadnt sent an international payment before. But, even so, I 
dont find the payment was so unusual that it represented a clear fraud risk that HSBC ought 
to have acted on. 
There will be many similar transactions  both in size and nature  that are legitimately made 
from customer accounts every day. It isnt practical or achievable to expect HSBC to 
question all such payments. There is a balancing act to be struck between monitoring 
accounts for fraud and allowing legitimate payments to be made. In all the circumstances of 
this case, Im satisfied HSBC made no error in processing Ms Ls payment without first 
questioning it further. 
I would expect HSBC to try to recover funds when its notified of a scam. And I can see it did 
so in Ms Ls case. But unfortunately, the receiving bank said it was unable to return anything. 
There was nothing further HSBC could do following the receiving banks response. 
The evidence suggests that the recovery action could have started sooner. It looks like there 
were four days between Ms L reporting the scam and the bank raising the recall request. Id 
expect that to have happen much sooner. But Im not persuaded acting more quickly would 
have made a difference here. By the time Ms L reported the scam to the bank a month had 
already passed. So the likelihood of any recovery was always going to be very remote. 
Fraudsters typically move funds on very quickly and so I find its more likely than not Ms Ls 
money was irrecoverable well before she reported the scam.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman