DRN-4109132
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to what 
he says was a scam.
Background
The background facts are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to set them out in full 
here. In summary, Mr G signed a contract with a company to carry out works to his home. 
He paid a deposit from an account he holds with another bank. There was then a slight 
variation to the plans, which required that he pay an extra deposit of £1,000. He transferred 
this sum using his Barclays account. The builder provided Mr G with a written contract and a 
seemingly detailed plan generated using design software.
Unfortunately, the works never commenced. Mr G was unable to contact the director of the 
company to find out what was going on. Eventually, he accepted that hed fallen victim to a 
scam. He complained to Barclays and asked that it reimburse him. It didnt agree to do so  
it said that Mr G wasnt the victim of a scam. Instead, he had a private civil dispute with the 
builder.
Mr G was unhappy with the response he received from Barclays and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it and 
recommended Barclays reimburse him. Barclays disagreed and remained of the view that 
this wasnt a scam but was a civil dispute. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr G is generally liable for payments 
hes authorised. He did authorise the payment in question and so he is presumed liable for it. 
However, thats not the end of the story. Barclays is a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Under that Code, the general 
presumption is that signatories should reimburse customers where they fall victim to frauds 
and scams, unless one of the exceptions applies. However, none of the provisions of the 
Code are relevant if the customer hasnt actually fallen victim to a scam. 
Ive considered the available evidence carefully and Im persuaded that this ought to be 
treated as a scam, rather than purely a civil dispute. Mr G has provided evidence of his 
interaction with the police which clearly shows that the allegation of fraud has been taken 
seriously. There was a warrant for the arrest of the director of the company and theyve 
since been interviewed under caution. No decision appears to have been taken in respect of 
whether the director should be charged with any offence. Nonetheless, this is compelling 
evidence that what happened to Mr G went beyond a mere civil dispute.
In addition to that, a separate allegation of fraud was made against the same company by a 
different customer, albeit the account that was paid was a different one. Finally, there is a 
third-party website carrying a large number of reviews of this business. These were broadly 
positive (with the occasional reference to concerns over quality) until 2022. From that point 
on, the reviews almost universally make allegations of fraud against the company. They also 
describe a means of operating that was identical with the one Mr G described.
It follows that the CRM Code applies to this transaction and so Barclays ought to reimburse 
him, unless an exception applies. Im not persuaded any exception is applicable in this case. 
I find that Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a genuine company 
 it provided him with a professional looking plan and contract, it had a listing on the 
Companies House website and generally positive feedback on a third-party review website 
at the time. He didnt have any reasonable basis for questioning that the company was a 
legitimate one and so Im persuaded that Barclays shouldve upheld Mr Gs complaint and 
refunded him under the CRM Code.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr G accepts my decision, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund the payment he made to the scammer. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from the date it declined his 
claim under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman