DRN-3560239
The complaint
Ms K complains about a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement), the terms and conditions 
of which Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) are holding her to.
What happened
On 24 August 2020 Ms K entered into an agreement with Hitachi for an item she had 
purchased, costing £1,599, from a company that I will call D.
Under the terms of the agreement Ms K undertook to pay Hitachi £1,599 before 
24 May 2021 or £2,358.36 at £65.51 a month for 36 months commencing 24 May 2021. The 
agreement stated that Hitachi would send Ms K a reminder of her right to pay £1,599 
interest free before 24 May 2021.
On 17 September 2020 Hitachi says it sent Ms K a welcome letter which said that it would 
collect £65.51 a month from her nominated bank account on 24 May 2021 and on, or shortly 
after, 24 of each month. 
On 12 April 2021 Hitachi says it sent Ms K a reminder letter which said she could, before 
24 May 2021, pay it £1,599 interest free.
On 24 May 2021, and with Ms K having not paid £1,599 (or any other amount in partial 
settlement of the agreement), Hitachi collected £65.51 from Ms Ks nominated bank account 
by way of direct debit.
On 28 July 2021 Ms K called Hitachi for a settlement figure. Ms K was unhappy with the sum 
she was advised she needed to pay and raised a complaint. She complained that she was 
advised by D her agreement was interest free, she had received no correspondence from 
Hitachi in respect of the agreement and she had been held in a queue when calling it 
previously.
On 5 August 2021 Ms K called Hitachi to complain that the agreement had been mis-sold to 
her and she had never signed it and she was advised the agreement would be interest free 
for its entire term of 45 months.
On 9 August 2021 Hitachi sent Ms K a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
Hitachi said it didnt believe it had done anything wrong. It said that it had managed and 
administered the agreement in line with its terms and conditions and it had sent Ms K a 
welcome letter on 17 September 2021 and a reminder letter on 12 April 2021. It also 
apologised for the time Ms K had to wait for her an earlier call to be answered and provided 
an explanation as to why she had to wait for that call to be answered. 
On 25 August 2021 Hitachi sent Ms K a (second) FRL. Under cover of this FRL Hitachi said 
that it was satisfied that the agreement hadnt been mis-sold and had it been fully explained 
to Ms K by D. It also said that Ms K had signed the agreement (despite her submission to 
the contrary) and she was given a hard copy of the agreement in store by D and sent a 
further copy by email.
Ms K wasnt happy with Hitachis two FRLs so referred matters to our service.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Ms K didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons.
First, I would like to point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive to 
base my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. Secondly, if I 
dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Ms K submits that the agreement was mis-sold to her and she didnt sign it. First, having 
seen a copy of the agreement, Im satisfied it was signed by Ms K, albeit electronically.
Now I know I cant say for certain what was discussed between Ms K and D. But the 
agreement (which Im satisfied Ms K was provided a copy of and which she signed) doesnt 
support what she submits she was told. Furthermore, what Ms K submits she was told is 
simply not how agreements of this type work so I cant see how D would have 
misrepresented the terms in error. I also see no reason why D would have deliberately 
misled Ms K as to the terms of the agreement. So, on the balance of probability, Im simply 
not persuaded the agreement was mis-sold.
Ms K says she didnt receive Hitachis welcome letter or its reminder letter. But given that 
Hitachi has been able to provide copies of both letters, correctly addressed, and its 
contemporaneous system notes show these were sent and not returned, I can confirm that 
on the balance of probabilities Im satisfied that these were sent and Hitachi cant reasonably 
be held responsible for their non-receipt. I would also add that by sending these two letters 
Hitachi met its regulatory obligations in respect of buy now pay later deals.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that although it might have been 
frustrating for Ms K to have been held in a queue when she called Hitachi sometime before 
28 July 2021, I dont think this in itself warrants compensation. 
Being held in telephone queues, when calling a financial business, is simply a fact of life. 
And as pointed out by Hitachi Ms K did have the option of requesting a call back rather than 
continuing to hold. Furthermore, it should be remembered that in mid-2021 businesses were 
experiencing higher call volumes, often with less staff, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Finally, it appears that despite my view that this matter doesnt, in itself, warrant 
compensation, it appears that Hitachi may have paid Ms K £15 as a gesture of goodwill. 
I appreciate Ms K will be disappointed, but in summary Im satisfied that Hitachi, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, has done nothing wrong.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman