DRN-4148695
The complaint
Miss J complains that the loan she had from TM Advances Limited was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss J had one loan from TM Advances in August 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 29 Aug 2017 £2,000 24m £215 1 Sep 2019 31 Jan 2022
Miss J says she already had a large amount of debt when she applied for the loan, including 
multiple other loans and an overdraft. She says she was using her salary to repay the other 
loans which led to her borrowing further as she was going through a divorce and was unable 
to pay essential bills. Miss J says she defaulted on the loan within a few months, and this 
has left her with a poor credit record and unable to get a mortgage. She adds that it has 
taken her four years to clear her debt and shed like the default removed.
TM Advances says the loan was to consolidate some of Miss Js existing debts and that its 
calculations showed the repayments were affordable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She did not consider TM 
Advancess checks went far enough given what it knew about Miss Js circumstances at the 
time. She found that proportionate checks were likely to have shown the lending was 
unsustainable and it was irresponsible to have approved the application. Our investigator 
recommended that interest should be refunded on the loan, plus 8%, and negative 
information should be removed from her credit file.
TM Advances responded to say, in summary, that, after consolidation, Miss J had 
disposable income of £879 per month which made the loan repayment of £215 affordable. It 
added that the loan gave her an opportunity to break the cycle of short-term lending and the 
default on her record was from three years earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Js case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Js loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss J applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show TM Advances asked about the 
reason for the loan and her financial circumstances, and also checked her credit file. 
However, based on the information it received, Im not satisfied the checks went far enough. 
I say that because:
Miss Js credit file said A high proportion of applicants for credit with this score will 
experience serious repayment problems if this application is accepted and [the] 
individual has a very high level of indebtedness;
Her current combined credit commitments came to almost £900  around 37% of her 
declared income;
Miss J had taken out four high cost loans in the last three months;
There was one default on Miss Js credit file, although that was from almost three 
years earlier.
I acknowledge Miss J said the loan was for consolidation purposes, but given the above, I 
consider TM Advances should, as a minimum, have verified Miss Js income and ensured it 
had a complete picture of her expenditure and credit commitments.
Ive looked at Miss Js bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for what TM 
Advances may have seen had it carried out proportionate checks. They show:
Miss Js income was £1,959 per month in the months leading up to the loan, and not 
the £2,400 shed declared;
Two further short-term loans had been taken out in August 2017 that were not yet 
reflected on Miss Js credit file:
oOn 3 August Miss J took out a £500 loan, with £612 due to be repaid the 
following month;
oOn 18 August she took out a £485 loan to be repaid at £147 per month;
Miss Js rent appeared to be almost double the £413 shed declared.
I accept TM Advances says the loan was to consolidate existing expensive credit and had 
identified four loans which Miss J was to repay with the money. However, even taking that 
into account, Miss J could not afford the £215 repayment on the new loan, especially 
considering it needed to be sustainable for 24 months.
As it is, Miss J only repaid the cheapest of the four loans identified for consolidation and she 
continued to take out expensive credit after shed received the £2,000 from TM Advances.In summary, Miss J was showing clear signs that she was already struggling financially and I 
find it was irresponsible to lend her a further £2,000.
I acknowledge TM Advances says the loan gave Miss J an opportunity to break the cycle of 
high cost borrowing, but I cant agree that is the case given what I can see on her credit file.
So, based on all the evidence, I find TM Advances did not make a fair lending decision for 
the loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TM Advances Limited should: 
Add up the total amount of money Miss J received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss J made should be deducted from this amount and 
the overpayments should then be refunded along with 8% simple interest 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the settlement date); *
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Js credit file regarding the 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. 
TM Advances must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman