DRN-3329516
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) denied them access to 
the money in their combined mortgage and current account when they introduced two-factor 
authentication. Although Mrs V has consented to this complaint all our communication has 
been with Mr V. So, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to him.
Mr V says the changes RBS made were excessive and obstructive and forced them to 
move their mortgage and current account elsewhere because the RBS account no longer 
offered the functionality that it would be reasonable to expect a current account to offer.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr V found that he couldnt move money from his RBS account to an 
existing payee (another bank account in Mr Vs name) because the transfer required two-
factor authentication and he couldnt complete it without a card reader. Mr V complained to 
RBS.
On 12 November 2019 RBS rejected Mr Vs complaint. They said theyd introduced two-
factor authentication in response to new regulations and that customers had been given 
notice that theyd now need a mobile phone or their debit card and a card reader to access 
online banking and carry out banking and payment activities online.
What Mr V told us
Mr V told us he found the expectation that he should carry a card reader with him 
ridiculous. He thought it was a symptom of the fact that the type of account he had with 
RBS was held on a legacy system and there hadnt been sufficient investment in the 
technology. He said that hed had to stop his salary being paid into his RBS account 
because he couldnt readily access his money. Hed also moved his mortgage and paid 
around £880 to do so. He said he wanted to be compensated for that, for the extra interest 
he was now paying on his mortgage and for the inconvenience hed been caused.
He told us RBS hadnt offered him another method of authenticating online payments except 
the card reader, but that hed have been happy with any method that didnt necessitate him 
having to carry something additional. He said hes a mobile phone user who always has the 
most up-to-date smart phone, so if RBS had offered him a way of authenticating using his 
mobile phone, hed have used it. He was adamant he wasnt offered the option of receiving 
authentication codes (one-time passcodes  OTPs) to his mobile phone, and was only ever 
presented with the option to generate a code using the card reader.
What RBS told us
RBS told us that theyd introduced two-factor or strong customer authentication (SCA) in 
response to the Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2). They said theyd made customers 
fully aware that these changes were coming and what theyd need to do. So, they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. They also said they couldnt explain why Mr V couldnt use 
mobile phone authentication as this option was available to him.
Our investigators view
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Vs complaint. She said RBS hadnt done anything wrong 
by implementing SCA and requiring two-factor authentication for online banking and 
payment activities. She also said RBS had given Mr V a viable option for authentication in 
the form of a card reader. But she thought RBS should have made it clearer to Mr V that 
using a card reader wasnt his only option and that he could avoid having to carry the card 
reader and authenticate using his mobile phone. She said she was satisfied mobile phone 
authentication was offered by RBS but had seen nothing to evidence this option had been 
offered to Mr V. So, she said RBS should pay Mr V £100 to acknowledge hed suffered some 
personal inconvenience from having to carry the card reader when he didnt need to.
Responses to the view
Mr V didnt accept that outcome. He said a card reader might have been a viable option, but 
it wasnt a reasonable one. He said hed been forced into a situation where hed not been 
able to access the money in his account without carrying a card reader around. He said, I 
simply couldnt access my cash, pay bills, pay for services, move cash between accounts 
etc. So, he didnt think £100 was fair compensation. He said the changes had made him 
move his account and mortgage and he wanted to recover the fees hed had to pay to do 
that.
He also disputed that RBS had offered all customers the option to authenticate using a 
mobile phone. And he said he was unhappy customers werent provided with any 
opportunity to object to this major change.
RBS agreed to pay the £100 compensation our investigator had recommended. They also 
confirmed that the option to authenticate with an OTP received to a mobile phone had been 
rolled out to [their] whole customer base.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry Mr V and Mrs V are likely to be disappointed, I have 
reached the same outcome as our investigator did and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into force on 
14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong 
customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its payment account 
online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out any action through a remote 
channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
Strong customer authentication (SCA) is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a)     something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);(b)     something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c)     something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and UK Finance have both issued guidance to PSPs 
on the implementation of SCA. The FCA in its guidance document Payment Service and 
Electronic Money  Our Approach says:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply with their obligation to 
apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. 
For example, not all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart 
phone and payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs 
must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing a non-exhaustive list of 
authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the possession element of SCA. 
These include possession of a card evidenced by use of a card reader, and possession of a 
device evidenced by an OTP generated by or received on a device (i.e. a mobile phone).
I think these regulations, and the associated guidance, mean that RBS were required to 
implement two-factor authentication. They were also required to offer authentication 
methods which are workable (viable) for customers who do not use mobile phones. But 
neither the regulations nor the guidance is prescriptive about the authentication methods a 
PSP must offer. Its clear there are a range of ways PSPs can authenticate customers and 
not all PSPs will adopt the same range.
So, I dont think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably by implementing SCA or two-factor 
authentication and I dont think they did anything wrong by offering a card reader as one of 
their options for customers to use to satisfy the possession element of SCA. But when Mr V 
made it clear hed prefer not to carry a card reader I think they could have done more to 
guide him towards their other option  using a mobile phone to authenticate.
Whilst Im satisfied that this was an option RBS offered for authenticating online activity for 
this account, I think its more likely than not this option wasnt made explicitly clear to Mr V. 
I say this because I think if it had been hed have taken it up. He is, after all, someone who 
has no difficulty using mobile phone technology. Its for this failing in communication that I 
think RBS should pay Mr and Mrs V £100 to remedy, because that failing led to Mr V 
suffering the inconvenience of carrying a card reader when he didnt need to.
However, I dont agree with Mr V that he should receive more compensation or a refund of 
the costs he incurred moving his mortgage. Ultimately, RBS were required to implement 
SCA measures and using a card reader was a legitimate method for them to employ to 
satisfy the possession element of the regulations. Mr V had no difficultly using the card 
reader beyond not wanting to carry it with him. So, whilst I appreciate that hes entitled to his 
preferences about that, I cant say RBSs adoption of the card reader as an SCA method 
was unreasonable, or unviable, or justified Mr Vs decision to move his mortgage. It follows 
that I dont think thats something RBS need to compensate him for.
Putting things right
As I dont think RBS did enough to let Mr V know he could use his mobile phone to 
authenticate instead of a card reader, I find he suffered the inconvenience of having to carry a card reader when he could have opted not to. So, I require RBS to pay Mr and Mrs V £100 
compensation as theyve already agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs V £100 compensation as theyve already agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman