DRN-3457102
The complaint
Ms G complains about how Santander UK Plc has handled a refund on a card protection 
policy she took out.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Some years ago, Ms G took out a card protection policy (CPP) through Santander, 
her bank. The provider of the policy was Company C.
The Regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) found the policies had been 
widely mis-sold, Company C was fined and in 2014 a redress scheme was put in 
place to make refunds to certain consumers. The redress scheme was wound up in 
2017 and so the complaint is made against the firm which sold the policy, Santander. 
Ms G received notification she might be entitled to a refund so she submitted her 
claim form in April 2014. She didnt hear anything further and says she contacted 
Santander but didnt receive a reply. 
Following a period of illness, Ms G says she contacted the FCA and it told her to 
contact the redress scheme which she did. She complained in March 2021 and 
received a final response explaining she had been sent a cheque but this had been 
returned undelivered in 2014 and it was too late for a cheque to be reissued. 
Our Investigator considered the evidence and confirmed what the business said 
about the cheque being sent and returned. He said under the scheme rules there 
was no provision for a cheque to be reissued more than six months later. 
He didnt uphold the complaint and Ms G asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the redress scheme were agreed by the FCA and approved by the High 
Court. I cant make a finding on the fairness of those terms but I can consider if 
theyve been applied correctly. So, Ive gone on to look at the term relevant in this 
case.
The terms explain Any cheque not encashed within six months shall be cancelled 
and the Scheme Claim to which it relates shall be deemed to have expired and Such 
Scheme Creditor shall not receive any Redress and shall have no right to the Dispute 
Resolution Procedure.
So, put simply, if a cheque was sent and not cashed within six months, the consumer 
will be unable to take any further action or receive any redress.
The refund cheque was sent to the address the scheme held on file for Ms G which 
was the same one the initial communications - which Ms G received - were also sent 
to. Its not my role to speculate on why the cheque seems not to have been received, 
but I cant hold Santander responsible for this as postal deliveries are outside its 
control.
Ms G says part of her address was missing on the original communication and she 
provided the missing information when completing the application for a refund. But 
Ive seen a copy of the application form and no additional address information has 
been completed.
So Im satisfied the cheque was sent to Ms G and the scheme administrator met its 
obligations using the address on file, whether it was received or not. I acknowledge 
Ms G believes this term doesnt apply to her circumstances, saying it only applies to 
cheques that have been received but not encashed or where a consumer didnt 
update their address. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied the cheque 
was sent so this doesnt change my mind even if she didnt receive it as shes said. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander acted fairly and in line with the scheme rules when it 
declined to reissue a cheque in 2021. So I wont be upholding the complaint or 
asking Santander to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman