DRN-3666358
The Complaint
Mr M says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) (Tesco) didnt fairly
or reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to
holiday products he purchased using his credit card. Hes also unhappy with Tescos 
response to a complaint he made about the lawfulness of the purchase agreements he 
entered into and the implications that had on the relevant credit card transactions. 
Background to the Complaint
Mr M purchased two holiday products in 2001 and 2004 from a third party (the Supplier) 
and he used his Tesco credit card to help finance those purchases.
Unhappy with what had happened at those times, he wrote to Tesco in June 2017 to make
claims under Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation by the provider of the holiday
products he bought.1
On 10 July 2017, Tesco declined Mr Ms claims. It said that his claim in relation to the sale in
2001 was out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). And as Mr M couldnt provide
a copy of the purchase agreement from 2004, Tesco also said that it couldnt determine
whether there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract as far as that sale was
concerned.
Mr M wrote back to Tesco in August that year to stand by his allegations of
misrepresentation. He also argued that, in light of a ruling of the Spanish Supreme Court,
the sale of floating weeks, points, fractional ownership or vacation club memberships is
contrary to the law and owners are entitled to have their contracts deemed null and void
together with a full refund of what they paid.
On 14 September 2017, Tesco provided Mr M with a final response letter in which it
repeated much of what it had to say on 10 July that year. But it also made the point that his
claim in relation to what happened in 2004 may also have been out of time under the LA.
Mr M referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service a short time later. It was
looked at by an investigator who also thought that Mr Ms Section 75 claims were made too
late under the LA.
Mr M disagreed. He said that he didnt realise in 2001 and 2004 that the provider of the
holiday products wouldnt deliver what was promised. He also repeated the argument that
the purchase agreements were null and void because of a ruling by the Spanish Supreme
Court.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 15 July 2022. In summary, I thought that Mr Ms 
1 Mr Ms claims were made in relation to several purchases. But only two of them were financed in full or part using a Tesco 
credit card  which is why this complaint is only concerned with claims in relation to what happened in 2001 and 2004.
Section 75 claims for misrepresentation were made out of time under the LA. And I wasnt 
persuaded by the evidence before me that the purchase agreements he entered into in 2001 
and 2004 were governed by Spanish law and possibly unlawful as a result  such that there 
could have been implications for the associated credit card transactions used to help finance 
those purchases.
In response to my PD, neither side added to what had already been said and/or provided in 
relation to the merits of this complaint. And as the deadline for responses has now been and 
gone, the complaint was passed back to me for a Final Decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld  which I continue to 
realise will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope he understands why Ive come to that 
conclusion.
The Section 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
Under the relevant provisions of the LA, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim
for misrepresentation  starting from the date on which the cause of action accrued, which is
the point at which a claimant had everything they needed to make a legal claim.
As Mr M says that he entered into purchase agreements in 2001 and 2004 because of
misrepresentations that he suggests he relied on, he had six years from when he entered
into the purchase agreements to make his Section 75 claims as it was when he used his
Tesco credit card to help finance the purchases in question that he suffered a loss.
However, as Mr M didnt submit his Section 75 claims for misrepresentation to Tesco until
June 2017, they fell outside of the relevant time limit set out in the LA. As I still cant see a 
reason why that time limit should be extended, I think Tesco was and is entitled to rely on
the LA as a defence to the claims. And that means Im still not persuaded that I now need to 
ask Tesco to do anything to put things right as far as these claims are concerned.
Were the purchase agreements unlawful?
Mr M suggests that the purchase agreements he entered into in 2001 and 2004 were
Unlawful under Spanish law. If that was so, such that the purchase agreements were 
voidable, that may have implications for the associated credit card transactions used to help 
finance those purchases  which is why Ive considered it separately to his Section 75 claim.
However, as Mr M still hasnt provided a copy of the purchase agreement from 2004 along 
with its terms and conditions, and as Ive still only seen part of the purchase agreement from 
2001, it remains unclear as to whether those agreements were governed by English or 
Spanish law. As I said in my PD, that matters because, if they were governed by English 
law2, I cant see why the Spanish Supreme Court ruling that Mr M refers to would have any 
bearing on whether there were problems with the purchase agreements under English law. 
And for that reason, Im still not persuaded that this argument should succeed.
2 The fact that the purchase agreement entered into in 2001 was between Mr M (who lived in the United Kingdom) and a
company registered in the United Kingdom suggests, in my view, that it was more likely to have been governed by English
rather than Spanish law.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman