DRN-3683947
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society made the decision to close her 
accounts, including those she holds in trust for her children. Miss B is also unhappy with how 
Nationwide handled the complaint she addressed to Nationwides Chief Executive. 
What happened
Miss B received notice from Nationwide that theyd made the decision to no longer provide 
banking services to her and that her accounts would be closed. Miss B wasnt happy about 
this, and so she sent an email to Nationwides Chief Executive, raising a complaint with him 
directly, which Miss B expected Nationwides Chief Executive to personally respond to. 
But Miss B was contacted by a member of Nationwides complaint response team, which 
Miss B was unhappy with. And Miss B was also unhappy with how members of Nationwides 
complaint response team spoke to her while discussing her complaint and that Nationwide 
hadnt upheld her complaint but instead confirmed that they were no longer willing to offer 
banking services to her. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and 
doesnt operate as such. This means it isnt within my remit here to declare that Nationwide 
have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw way - such declarations would be for a regulatory 
body or a Court of Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome. 
I also note that Miss B has made several detailed submissions to this service regarding this 
complaint. Id like to thank Miss B for these submissions, and I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both herself and Nationwide. I therefore hope 
Miss B wont consider it discourteous that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint  in-line 
with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
Miss B is unhappy that Nationwide have taken the decision to close her accounts, including 
those she holds in trust for her children, and to no longer offer banking services to her. So, 
Ive considered whether I feel Nationwides taking this decision is fair.
In much the same way as a person can choose which bank or building society they apply to 
for a new account, or whether they will continue to maintain an existing account with a 
specific bank or building society, so a business such as Nationwide is entitled to choose 
whether it will offer, or continue to offer, its services to any particular person.
Indeed, its included within Nationwides terms that they can close an account, usually with a 
minimum of two months notice, although immediate account closures without the provision 
of such notice are also permitted by Nationwides terms under certain circumstances. 
Additionally, Nationwide have explained to Miss B that theyve taken the decision to no 
longer offer banking services to her because Nationwide feel that the relationship between 
Miss B and themselves has irrevocably broken down. And Im satisfied that this is a valid 
reason for a business to decide to no longer offer services to a customer. 
Having reviewed correspondence between Miss B and Nationwide and having listened to 
recorded telephone calls between Miss B and Nationwide  about which, as alluded to in the 
opening section of this letter, Miss B here complains  it seems to me that Miss B has lost 
faith in Nationwide and is generally unresponsive to their attempts to provide explanations to 
her concerns. As such, Im satisfied that the relationship between Miss B and Nationwide 
has broken down to a degree whereby Nationwides decision to no longer offer banking 
services to Miss B on the basis of that broken and irreparable relationship is a fair one.
All of which means Im satisfied both that Nationwide are permitted to choose to no longer 
offer banking services to Miss B  both in a general sense and in accordance with their 
terms  and that Nationwides rationale for choosing to end the business relationship with 
Miss B is reasonable. Accordingly, I wont be upholding this aspect of Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B is also unhappy with how Nationwide responded to the complaint she raised directly 
with Nationwides Chief Executive. This includes that Nationwides Chief Executive didnt 
personally respond to her complaint, and in how she was spoken to by the Nationwide staff 
that did respond to her complaint.
I can appreciate Miss Bs concerns here. But as per the rules by which this service must 
abide, which can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, this service is only able to consider complaints about 
regulated financial services. But this aspect of Miss Bs complaint isnt about a regulated 
financial service  its a complaint about how Nationwide have handled a complaint. 
However, speaking generally, I dont feel that its reasonable for Miss B to have expected 
Nationwides Chief Executive to have personally dealt with her complaint, given that this isnt 
generally a role that company Chief Executives engage in. And I feel that the delegation of 
Miss Bs complaint to a member of staff that specifically handles complaints isnt unfair.
Ive also listened to recordings to the telephone calls about which Miss B complains. Its 
clear that Miss B has strong feelings about these calls. But while I accept that the 
conversations were strained, I dont feel that Nationwides staff acted vindictively or with any 
form of malice as Miss B contends. Indeed, I feel that these telephone conversations are 
indicative of the broken relationship that exists between Miss B and Nationwide, as 
evidenced by the behaviour of both Miss B and Nationwides staff during those calls. 
Nationwide have apologised to Miss B that their staff didnt handle these telephone calls in a 
calmer manner. And given the wider context of the broken relationship here that influenced 
the tense nature of these calls, I dont feel that anything beyond this apology should 
reasonably be required of Nationwide in this regard.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss B was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action here. I trust that Miss B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman