DRN-4467948
Complaint
Mr B complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that it was unaffordable and made what was 
already a poor financial situation for him worse. 
Background
In April 2018, Moneybarn provided Mr B with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £6,995.00. Mr B paid a deposit of £400 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,595.00. The loan had interest and charges 
of £8,525.39 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£15,120.29 (not including Mr Bs deposit) was due to be repaid in 57 monthly instalments of 
£265.27.
Mr B complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Bs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr B before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr B provided details of his monthly 
income, which it verified against copies of bank statements which it asked Mr B to provide in 
support of his application. 
It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr B which had shown Mr B had previously 
defaulted on credit but the account had been fully settled. The credit search also showed 
that Mr B also had county court judgments (CCJ) taken out against him. Although, in 
Moneybarns view, this was less relevant bearing in mind this was almost a year prior to this 
application.
In any event whats important here is that, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Mr B 
already owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Bs living expenses were deducted from his 
monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr B says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr B and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Bs living costs given Moneybarn asked Mr B for bank statements. And I think 
that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Bs actual regular living costs. 
That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Bs actual living costs would 
have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr B has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his visible committed regular living expenses and existing credit 
commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
In reaching this agreement Ive considered that Mr Bs statements appear to show that he 
had returned direct debits. But this looks to be more of a timing issue as the statements 
show that there were attempts to take the payments just before Mr B was paid. And a simple 
adjustment to the date of the payment, would have resolved this rather than it being a case 
that Mr B didnt have the funds to make payment.
Furthermore, Im also mindful that Mr Bs statements also show that he had another car 
finance agreement he was making payment to. But it looks like he was in some kind of 
arrangement to pay on that one. And Im mindful that he wouldnt still have had the car, 
which hes likely to have needed to travel to work etc, at the time he made this application. 
I accept its possible that Mr Bs actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information he provided to Moneybarn showed. But a lender is only able to 
make a decision based on what it has, or at the very least is likely to have. So while I do 
appreciate that it might have proved more difficult for Mr B to make his payments than hed 
anticipated, the crucial thing here is that I dont think that asking for more information would 
have prevented Moneybarn from lending in this instance. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr B did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr B. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman