DRN-4038235
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was treated unfairly by Together Personal Finance Limited (trading 
as Together) when his mortgage was in arrears. He says he was pushed into selling his 
property for less than it was worth.
What happened
Mr J took out a mortgage with Together in 2014. The mortgage fell into arrears in late 2015 
and Together took legal action. Mr J sold the property in March 2018 and repaid the 
mortgage.
After this, Together undertook two reviews of the arrears fees it applied to mortgage 
accounts. It refunded fees and associated interest to Mr J.
Mr J says hed have been able to sell the property for about £20,000 more if hed been given 
more time. He says if Together hadnt applied unfair charges hed have been able to repay 
the arrears and stay in the property, which he says is worth considerably more now.
Our investigator said the arrears fees hadnt been added the contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) and didnt form part of the arrears. He said Together didnt tell Mr J to sell the 
property, or give him a deadline to sell the property.
Mr J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js account fell into arrears in late 2015. Mr J was unable to maintain agreed payment 
arrangements. The arrears increased and Together obtained a court order for possession in 
September 2016. At this point his arrears were about £1,600. 
Together says while it had eviction orders for October 2016 and January 2017, it agreed new 
arrangements to avoid taking possession. Together says Mr J didnt maintain the 
arrangements. It obtained a new eviction date in March 2018. At that time, Mr Js arrears 
were about £3,000, which was equivalent to nine months of missed payments.
Mr J sold the property in March 2018. He says this was to a business that specialised in 
buying properties that were about to be repossessed. Together says it wasnt aware Mr J 
was selling the property until a few days before completion. It says if it had known he wanted 
to sell the property, it could have offered him support through the sales process. 
Mr J says he was pushed into selling the property for less than he believes it was worth. He 
says if he hadnt had to pay charges, more of the money he paid into the account would 
have been applied to his CMP and his arrears balance would have been lower. The recovery 
action taken by Together meant he had a deadline to sell the property before it took 
possession. And Mr J says Togethers agent told him to sell the property.
While I understand the points made by Mr J, taking all of the circumstances into account, I 
dont think Together was responsible for Mr J selling the property for less than he says it was 
worth.
Mr J was in arrears from late 2015. He sold the property in March 2018, more than two years 
later. He was unable to maintain payment plans during this time. Mr J could have considered 
marketing the property for sale during this time. Or he could have taken independent 
financial advice about what options he might have. Mr J could have told Together hed 
decided to sell the property and asked for time to market the property for sale, to obtain a 
better price. 
Mr J says Togethers agent told him to sell the property. Theres no record of this, but its 
possible this was discussed as an option. Even if this was the case, Mr J could have 
discussed with Together what support it could offer while he marketed the property for sale.
If Together had taken the property into possession, it would have been entitled to apply 
costs to the account. I can understand if Mr J wanted to avoid this. However, rules on 
mortgage regulation would have required Together to sell the property for the best price 
reasonably available. 
Mr J decided to sell the property himself rather than it being taken into possession. I dont 
think its fair to say that Together pushed him into doing this at short notice, and for £20,000 
less than he says it was worth. 
Together wrote to Mr J in late 2018 and late 2020 saying that it was refunding arrears fees. It 
refunded fees of about £1,300, with interest. These charges were added to the mortgage 
balance before Mr J sold the property. But they werent added to the arrears balance. Mr J 
was unable to maintain payments and/or payment arrangements for most of the life of the 
mortgage. He didnt make any payments after November 2017. A court issued a warrant for 
possession and an eviction date. While I accept that the arrears fees increased the overall 
amount Mr J owed, I dont think the outcome would have been different if Together hadnt 
applied the fees. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Together to pay compensation 
for Mr J selling the property for less than he says it was worth at the time or its value now.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman