DRN-1973052
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold his home insurance by Legal & General (L&G) as 
his boiler was over eight years old at the time and therefore excluded from cover provided 
under the home emergency section of the policy.
What happened
In 2015, Mr C took out a home insurance policy with L&G. He bought this through a price 
comparison website. This covered buildings, contents, occupiers liability and family legal 
costs. As part of the buildings cover, there was cover for home emergencies. After the 
purchase, he was sent the policy documents electronically. He says he was also sent the 
Terms and Conditions each year.
In May 2019, Mr Cs boiler broke down and he contacted L&G to have it fixed. L&G told him 
that his policy didnt cover boilers over eight years old. Mr Cs boiler was nine years old 
when he took out the policy in 2015, so hed never have been able to make a claim. 
Mr C says that hed overlooked the condition in the policys Terms and Conditions that says 
that boilers over eight years old arent covered.
Mr C told our investigator in a telephone call that after hed used the price comparison 
website to compare prices, he contacted L&G to clarify things, but he says L&G didnt go 
through the Terms and Conditions or ask him if hed read them.
Mr C complained to L&G that he was technically mis-sold the policy as the Terms and 
Conditions werent clear enough in stating that it didnt cover boilers over eight years old. 
L&G rejected this complaint. 
Mr C also complained that L&G hadnt responded to a further complaint that hes raised that 
L&G has failed to fully look into his initial complaint. At the time of introducing this further 
complaint, L&G hadnt had eight weeks within which to respond to it, so it wasnt included in 
the complaint that Im now considering. 
As he wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response to his initial complaint, he brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt consider that L&G had acted unfairly. She considered that as 
the policyholder, it was Mr Cs responsibility to read through the terms and conditions of his 
policy and to contact L&G if he had any queries. She also explained that it wasnt within this 
services powers to tell a business how it should word its policies.  
Mr C doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that an ombudsman consider 
his complaint. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the view of our investigator, and Im not going to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In considering Mr Cs complaint, I need to consider whether L&G failed to do something it 
shouldve done. If I think it did, I then need to consider if Mr C has lost out as a result, in 
which case I can ask L&G to put things right. I also need to consider whether its likely Mr C 
wouldve acted differently if L&G hadnt done something wrong, such as purchased another 
product.
A sale can be regarded as a mis-sale for a number of reasons, and these would include 
where the insurer didnt tell the customer everything it shouldve done about the product. 
This is how I understand Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C purchased his home insurance with L&G through a price comparison website.  L&G 
didnt recommend this product to Mr C. He chose it. And Mr C has said that after selecting 
L&Gs policy from the price comparison website, he contacted it by phone to clarify a few 
points. He doesnt say that he asked about what limitations there were to the home 
emergency cover, so he wasnt given misinformation about the limitation on cover.
Mr C says that the limitation on cover for his boiler because of its age wasnt sufficiently 
highlighted. Ive looked at the terms of Mr Cs policy. The exclusion of cover for boilers over 
eight years old isnt highlighted in any way so as to mark it out from the other exclusions but 
then neither are any of the other exclusions highlighted. They all have the same prominence 
in a section of the policy that is contained on a single page. So I dont consider that what this 
section of the policy covers, and what it doesnt, is difficult to see. 
 Each of the exclusions throughout the policy could be of particular relevance to another 
customer. I think its reasonable to expect a customer who has a particular concern as to 
whether a policy will cover his particular circumstances to check the terms of the policy and 
its exclusions. I dont consider that its either practical or reasonable for an insurer to 
highlight every term. If it did, then nothing would stand out. I think its the responsibility of a 
customer to read the terms of his policy to see if it covers his needs and to check whether 
there are any exclusions that would make the policy unsuitable for those needs. Theres a 28 
day cooling off period to allow a policy to be checked for suitability.
When Mr C took out the policy in June 2015, he ticked a box to confirm that hed been 
provided with, and was aware of the importance of reading, the following documents:
 Your Demands and Needs
 Insurance Product Information
 About Us. Our Terms and Services
 Data Privacy Notice
Mr C appears to accept that he didnt read the policy document closely. I dont consider that 
L&G is at fault for that. Nor do I consider that the exclusion of boilers over eight years old 
was such a significant exclusion that it shouldve been highlighted to make it more 
prominent. 
My conclusion is that the limitation on cover was there to be read. Mr C had had the policy 
for four years. L&G says it doesnt have any record of Mr C having raised any queries. I dont 
consider that L&G did anything wrong in failing to highlight this particular exclusion. Nor do I 
consider that it shouldve done so even if other customers had had their claims denied 
because of the exclusion. 
 As I dont consider that L&G has done anything wrong, I dont need to consider what it 
should do to put things right. Im therefore not going to require it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman