DRN-3174237
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited has turned down his claim for 
damage to his car caused by him putting AdBlue in the fuel tank by mistake.
Mr B is represented by Mrs B, who is Mr Bs wife and a named driver under Mr Bs policy.
 
What happened
Mr B put AdBlue in the fuel tank of his car by mistake. It was then driven a short 
distance before it broke down. Mr and Mrs B were told by a specialist garage it would 
cost around £15,000 to properly repair the car. Mr B contacted Tesco to make a claim 
and was originally given the impression Tesco would pay for the repair. However, 
Tesco eventually turned down his claim on the basis that damage caused by 
contaminated fuel isnt covered by his policy due to a clause that specifically excludes 
it.
In the end Mr B paid for a temporary repair and traded his car in for a new one. He 
complained to Tesco. It paid him some compensation for wrongly giving him the 
impression it would pay his claim, but said the decision not to pay it would stand.
Mr B asked us to consider a complaint against Tesco. One of our investigators did this 
and wrote to Tesco explaining why he thought it should be upheld. This was on the basis 
that he thought the policy exclusion Tesco had relied on in respect of claims for 
contaminated fuel was ambiguous and should be interpreted in favour of Mr B. He said  
in view of this  Tesco should meet Mr Bs claim. Mr B had lost out by trading his car in for 
less than it would have been worth without the damage caused by the AdBlue and by 
paying for the temporary repair. So, the investigator suggested the settlement amount 
should reflect these losses. He also said Tesco should pay Mr B additional compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced as a result of having his claim 
incorrectly turned down.
Tesco doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
doesnt think the wording of the policy exclusion is ambiguous. It feels it is entirely 
reasonable and appropriate and the term contaminated fuel is widely used and 
understood. It doesnt agree with what it describes as Mr Bs narrow interpretation.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November and provisionally decided the following:
Section A of Mr Bs policy covers accidental damage to his car. Accidental damage isnt 
defined in the policy, but I think it can be taken to mean sudden and unexpected damage. 
And I think it is reasonable for this to be taken to include damage caused to the engine of 
the car by a foreign substance. However, Section A has the following exclusion:
Loss or damage caused to the car by an inappropriate type or grade of fuel being used, 
or by contaminated fuel.
I dont think Mrs B put an inappropriate type or grade of fuel in the car. She put in AdBlue, 
which contaminated the fuel already in the car. But I think the exclusion could be 
interpreted in two different ways. Firstly, I think it could be interpreted to mean only 
damage caused by fuel that was already contaminated when it was put in is excluded. 
But it could also be interpreted to mean damage caused by fuel contaminated either 
before or after it was put in is excluded.
I think this does mean the exclusion is ambiguous. And its a contract term, as the policy 
wording forms the main part of the contract between Mr B and Tesco. And I think, in law 
and as a matter of what is fair and reasonable, the party who didnt draft the contract 
should get the benefit of the most favourable interpretation of any ambiguous term. This is 
because the party who drafted the contract had the opportunity to make the terms clear 
and the other party should not lose out because of its failure to do so.
In this case, Tesco drafted the contract and included what I consider to be an ambiguous 
term, because it can be interpreted in two ways. And it therefore follows that I think as part 
of the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint Mr B should get the more favourable 
interpretation, ie the narrower one. And this means I think the exclusion should only be 
taken to apply where previously contaminated fuel was added to the insured car. And this 
means I dont think it is fair for Tesco to rely on it to reject Mr Bs claim.
As our investigator has already explained to Tesco, our general approach is to put 
consumers in the position theyd be in had a business not made an error. In this 
instance, that would normally mean having Tesco pay for the car repairs after deducting 
the £800 excess. However, Mr and Mrs B needed a car, but couldnt afford the repairs. 
So they felt they had to arrange a temporary repair and then trade the car in for a new 
car on finance. This means theres no original car to repair. And this means its likely 
Tesco have saved a considerable amount of money by incorrectly turning down Mr Bs 
claim. I appreciate Mr B wants the full repair costs paid to him in cash. But, ultimately, it 
was Mr Bs decision to take the action he did. And, whilst it was understandable, I dont 
think he should profit from it by receiving the full cost of repairing his damaged car.
Of course, Mr B shouldnt lose out financially either. So, I agree with our investigator that 
the fairest way to resolve the complaint is to restore Mr B as closely as possible to the 
financial position hed be in if the car was fully repaired before being traded in. And then 
compensate him separately for the fact he didnt want to trade the car in.
Mr B paid £1,216.13 on 23 April 2021 to clean the AdBlue out the system, ie a 
temporary repair, so that the car was in a saleable state. He then traded it in at a 
valuation of £27,281.87. Weve checked with the dealership who allowed Mr B to trade 
in the damaged car. Theyve said at the end of August if Mr Bs car had been in 
normal condition without the temporary repair they would have given him £32,000 as a 
trade in value. But theyve also pointed out it could have been less in May 2021, as 
used car prices have gone up since this time. This makes it very difficult to work out 
exactly what Mr B has lost as a result of his decision to trade his car in. But I do have 
to balance this against the fact that Mr B didnt want to trade his car in and felt he had 
to do so, rather than being left without a car. So I think, in view of this, its fair and 
reasonable to base what Mr B has lost on what the most the dealership would have 
given him is. This would have been £32,000, according to what theyve said, as while 
prices could have gone up a bit, theres usually some room for negotiation.
This means allowing for the amount Mr B paid to have the temporary repair carried out of
£1,216.13 and the loss due to the lower trade in value, which is £4,718.13, hes lost
£5,934.26 as a result of Tescos decision to turn down his claim. However, we also know 
Mr B would have had to pay an £800 excess to get the car fully repaired, which he didnt. 
So this needs to be factored in too, bringing the total loss down to £5,134.26. And I think Tesco should cover this. I know this is a bit less than our investigator suggested, but he 
based what was due on an average of the motor industry guide retail market values in 
mid-September 2021, albeit using the date of loss as May 2021. However, the figure he 
got from this is more than the actual dealership suggested theyd have given Mr B if his 
car hadnt been damaged, so I dont think it is the right figure to use.
I also think its fair and reasonable for Tesco to pay interest on the amount Mr B lost to 
compensate him for not having this money at the rate of 8% simple per year. For the sake 
of ease, this should be from the date he started the finance agreement for the 
replacement car (14 May 2021). I appreciate he paid for the temporary repair slightly 
earlier than this, but I think using this date is fair overall, as I am not sure exactly how Mr 
B paid for the deposit on his new car and for the temporary repair.
Ive also considered the additional distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced as a result 
of Tesco turning down his claim. I appreciate it has already paid compensation for the 
distress he experienced as result of its poor communication originally. But its clear Tesco 
should have done a better job with his claim and that some of its handling wasnt as 
sympathetic as it could have been. And, while Mr B chose to get another car rather than wait 
for the outcome of his complaint with us, he was still without a car at all for a period of time, 
when  if his claim had been accepted  he may have had a courtesy car from the repairing 
garage or been without a car for a shorter period. So, I think this, along with Tescos fairly 
unsympathetic handling and wrong decision on his claim caused Mr B a considerable 
amount of distress and inconvenience. And I think a further compensation payment of £300 
is fair in addition to the amount Tesco has already paid, ie £500 in total.
I gave both parties until 17 November to provide further comments and evidence.
Mr B has responded to say it was him and not his wife that put AdBlue in the car. He has 
also said he hasnt actually received any compensation from Tesco so far. And that he had 
to make a choice between applying for a £15,000 loan to pay to get his car repaired or 
trading it in. This affected his wifes mental well-being, as they were already struggling 
financially at the time due to the Pandemic. 
Mr B has gone on to explain how he wasnt able to select the same model of car, as the 
price of this had gone up and was then around £1,000 per month and not the £500 he was 
paying. He chose the next model down, but still ended up paying £200 per month more and 
with a smaller car, which was not as convenient for him and his family. Hes said he was 
suffering stress at the time and just wanted the problem sorted. And if Tesco had accepted 
his claim, he would have had his car repaired and got a top part exchange price upon trade 
in next year. Mr B has also said he did look at second-hand alternatives, but the payments 
for these were much higher at the time. He feels if my final decision is as per my provisional 
decision Tesco are getting off lightly paying just over a third of what they would have.
Tesco has responded with two points. The first is that Mr B did put an inappropriate type or 
grade of fuel in the tank of his car, as AdBlue is not an appropriate type of fuel. The second 
is that the exclusion that its relied on, ignoring the phrase inappropriate type or grade of 
fuel reads Loss or damage caused to the car by contaminated fuel. And nothing in the 
wording suggests alternative interpretations are needed, as it has a clear and obvious 
meaning. And the source of the contamination or when and where the fuel was 
contaminated is irrelevant.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Dealing with Tescos further comments. I dont think AdBlue is a fuel; it is an exhaust fluid. 
So I dont agree the first part of the above mentioned exclusion can be used to defeat Mr Bs 
claim. 
I do of course appreciate Tescos other point. However, I think the key issue is that the term 
contaminated fuel is not normally taken to refer to fuel contaminated by the addition of 
another liquid or substance after it has been put in a cars fuel tank. I think the term 
contaminated fuel is seen by most people as fuel that becomes contaminated or tainted with 
matter that collects at the bottom of storage or fuel station tanks. Or by the addition of liquids 
prior to it being put into fuel station tanks. And it remains my view that Mr B should get the 
benefit of this more favourable everyday interpretation. And this means I dont think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint if I were to allow Tesco to rely on 
the above mentioned exclusion. 
I have noted Mr Bs comments. I apologise for saying Mrs B put the AdBlue in the car, but I 
thought this was the case from reading the notes on the claim. However, I was clearly 
mistaken. Ive noted Mr Bs comments on putting things right. First of all, if he hasnt had any 
compensation at all from Tesco, he should get £500 for distress and inconvenience. I still 
think this is appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as 
a result of the poor claim handling and rejection of his claim. I appreciate it was a very 
difficult time for Mr and Mrs B for other reasons as well, but £500 is a significant amount of 
compensation and I think it is enough in the circumstances. 
I appreciate why Mr B made the decision to buy another car and that he did consider the 
option of a second-hand replacement, as opposed to a new one. And I can see he was 
under pressure at the time and wanted to get the problem solved. But there were other 
options and ultimately he chose to put himself in the financial situation he is now in because 
he made the decision to deal with the problem in the way that he did. So, I dont think it is 
appropriate for me to award any more than I suggested in my provisional decision for 
financial loss. I appreciate this means Tesco will pay less than it would have done if it had 
accepted the claim. But I have to base my decision on what is fair and reasonable and I 
dont think it is appropriate for Mr B to get more just because it would mean Tesco paying 
closer to the amount it would have paid if it had accepted his claim.   
Putting things right
Therefore, as set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr Bs total loss as a result of 
Tescos rejection of his claim was £5,134.26. And it remains my view that the fair and 
reasonable outcome to his complaint is for Tesco to pay this amount, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the date Mr B started the finance agreement for his replacement car, ie 
14 May 2021. I also think Tesco should pay Mr B £500 for distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mr B the 
following:
£5,134.26 to cover the lower trade in value of his damaged car and the cost 
of the temporary repair.
Interest at 8% per annum simple on £5,134.26 calculated from 14 May 2021 to the date this amount is paid1.
£500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Tesco Underwriting Limited must tell Mr B if it has made a deduction for income tax. 
And, if it has, how much its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for 
Mr B if asked to do so. This will allow Mr B to reclaim the tax from  Her Majestys 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.