DRN-4126737
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim she made on her 
joint life insurance policy. Shes also unhappy her policy was cancelled immediately, leaving 
her without protection.
Mrs Ws policy was held in trust, so the complaint is brought jointly by the trustees. But for 
ease of understanding, Ill refer just to Mrs W throughout.
What happened
To summarise, in December 2021, Mr and Mrs W took out a joint decreasing term life 
insurance policy with Aviva, to protect their mortgage. 
Very sadly, in July 2022, Mr W took his own life. Mrs W made a claim on the policy, but the 
claim was declined and policy cancelled, due to an exclusion relating to self-harm.
Mrs W complained. Aviva reviewed its decision but maintained its position. So Mrs W came 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked into things for her, but didnt 
uphold her complaint. She was satisfied Aviva was reasonably entitled to decline the claim 
based on the policy exclusion. And she pointed to evidence that Mrs W had been told about 
her policy being cancelled, shortly after Aviva was contacted about the claim.  
Mrs W remained unhappy, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision. Im aware 
Mrs W has raised some questions relating to the sale of the policy. But these are not for the 
insurer - Aviva - to answer, as the policy was sold through a broker. So to clarify, the scope 
of my decision is limited to Avivas decline of Mrs Ws claim and cancellation of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was very sorry to hear about the circumstances which led Mrs W to make an 
insurance claim and I offer my sincere condolences to her and Mr Ws family. 
Having considered everything carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will 
be extremely unwelcome news for Mrs W. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of 
evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the 
outcome of the complaint.
 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. My role is to decide whether Aviva dealt 
with Mrs Ws claim in line with the policy terms and its usual processes.  I can only say it 
should do something different if I dont think thats the case.
Aviva has relied on the following policy term: 
We wont pay [the death benefit] if the life covered dies because of suicide or 
intentional self-inflicted injury within 12 months of the policy start date. If this 
happens, the policy will end.
Prior to taking out their joint policy, Mr and Mrs W both held individual policies with Aviva. 
Mrs W says she believed their individual policies had been merged into a joint policy when 
they remortgaged in late 2021. So critically, Mrs W says Mr Ws single life policy continued 
into their joint one. The significance of this is that the 12 months exclusion period on Mr Ws 
single policy would no longer have applied when Mr W died. 
Aviva has said theres no option to convert single life policies to a joint one. And having 
looked at the policy terms, Ive not found anything to suggest otherwise. There are a number 
of change options for different types of policy and benefit, but from what Ive seen, none that 
applied to Mr and Mrs W in the way Mrs W believed. 
After the sale, Aviva sent Mr W policy documents. Mr W was asked to read the personal 
details confirmation document, along with the policy schedule, and to check all the 
information was correct. The cover letter and schedule confirm the new policy number and 
show both Mr W and Mrs W as policy holders. The new start date, amount covered and 
premium payable are also listed. I think the documentation from Aviva was clear and it was 
open to Mr W to question this if he had any concerns. So overall, I think Aviva was entitled to 
rely on the policy exclusion to refuse Mrs Ws claim and cancel the policy. 
Im aware Mrs W is also unhappy because the policy cancellation left her without cover. 
From what I understand, Mrs Ws financial advisor spoke to Aviva early on about the claim 
and was told about the policy exclusion. I think it was right for Aviva to explain this from the 
outset. A letter to the advisor, dated 1 August 2022, suggests she (the advisor) was told on 
14 July 2022 that the policy would be cancelled, although I accept this is not the same as 
Mrs W being told directly. Aviva has acknowledged it didnt communicate directly with Mrs W 
until 1 August 2022, the day Mrs W took out replacement cover. 
I appreciate Mrs W was distressed to learn her policy had been cancelled and she was 
without protection. This was unfortunate. But, as Ive explained above I think the decision by 
Aviva which left her in that position was fair. 
In order to say Aviva should do more to resolve Mrs Ws complaint, Id need to be satisfied 
not only that Aviva did something wrong, but that this had a negative impact on Mrs W. Ive 
considered this very carefully, but I dont think I can reasonably say that here. 
 
Mrs Ws complaint is that for a few weeks she was without cover. I can see she took prompt 
steps to address the situation. So, whilst I acknowledge this caused Mrs W to take corrective 
action at an exceptionally difficult time, I dont think that distress existed long enough for me 
to say Aviva should do anything more to acknowledge this. 
Once again, Im sorry to have to write in terms that will be very disappointing for Mrs W. But 
in the circumstances I dont think Aviva has treated her unfairly in relation to her claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees 
bringing this complaint to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman