DRN-2205102
The complaint
Ms A, on behalf of D, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under 
Ds business protection insurance policy.
What happened
D has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Ms A made a claim on that 
policy to cover Ds losses arising out of the closure of D from 23 March 2020 due to the 
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
Allianz declined the claim because it said D didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Ms A didnt agree. She said the closure had a considerable financial impact on D and 
that it became necessary for her to borrow money from family to help keep D solvent, whilst 
it was closed during lockdown. Ms A also thought the policy should cover D because she 
knows of other businesses like D who have received pay outs from Allianz under their 
business protection policies.  
Our investigator considered Ds complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation D found itself in. Ms A 
doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on D. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover D is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance.  There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy D took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy D holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections that would 
require Allianz to meet the claim like the one D is making. 
Ms A has told us that D closed its doors on 23 March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of Ds business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time.
The policy provides cover for several things, including specified illnesses, damage and 
denial of access. Ive considered each of them below.
Specified illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension in 
relation to specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business activities as a direct 
result of any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a 
Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
an illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides D with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because, as Ms A has said, there are other policies that do provide cover 
for the present pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which 
are set out and updated on a Government defined list. Ms As policy sets out a list of the 
illnesses which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that 
it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge.  I think 
the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular 
illnesses. There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above. 
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does.  Whilst the policy does not 
define what Plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious 
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium.   Plague appears as a specified 
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria 
Yersinia Pestis.  There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and 
pneumonic.  In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. 
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. Finally, whilst 
I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition 
as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list 
Allianz has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified illnesses 
set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Allianz has. 
 
Overall the fact that Plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up 
and nature to Plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall 
within the term Plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
Damage and denial of accessIve also thought about the damage and denial of access sections of cover and I dont think 
they apply. The damage section of the policy only responds when there has been loss
resulting from interruption of or interference with the business carried on by the Insured at
the Premises as a consequence of Damage. And Damage is defined as Destruction, 
damage or loss insured under Sections 1, 3, 4 and 7 of this Policy. Nothing in those 
sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by way of a specified illness or 
disease such as Covid 19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to physical 
damage in different shapes and forms.
The denial of access part of the policy requires there to be Damage as defined above which 
prevents or hinders the use of or access to the business premises. Because Covid 19 
doesnt fall into the definition of Damage, it cant apply to the denial of access clause either. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by turning down 
Ds claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Ms A but I hope Ive 
provided her with a thorough explanation of why Ds policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ds complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A, on behalf of 
D to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman