DRN-1841108
 
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A (the complainants) are represented. They say Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) gave them unsuitable investment and estate/inheritance tax (IHT) planning 
advice in 2017. Barclays says its advice was suitable.
What happened
The complainants profile at the time of advice was mainly as follows:
They were in their early 80s and late 70s respectively, they were in good health and 
they had no dependents.
They were retired, with joint annual pension and investment income of around 
£85,000, joint annual expenditure of £50,000 and joint annual disposable income of 
around £35,000.
They had no liabilities and combined invested assets in the value of £1.8 million 
(excluding their home, valued at around £900,000, and a joint cash holding of 
£50,000).
They were experienced investors with some of their investments held in an 
execution-only/self-managed context whilst others were professionally managed for 
them.
Barclays Wealth Planning Report (the report) for the complainants in 2017 confirms the 
following assessments:
The complainants presented an objective to mitigate IHT exposure in their estate, 
with the hope of moving the estate into an IHT free environment; they wished to 
maximise what, from their estate, could be bequeathed to their non-dependent adult 
children; their estate had around £850,000 in potential IHT liability; no gifts 
amounting to Potentially Exempt Transfers (PETs) from the estate had taken place 
in the preceding seven years; and only their combined Nil Rate Band (NRB) 
allowances of £650,000 were deductible from their estate prior to calculating the 
estates 40% IHT liability.
Accumulated gains within their assets also meant a potential Capital Gains Tax 
(CGT) liability would arise upon any relevant asset liquidation(s)  for the purpose of 
reinvestment. 
The complainants had no cash and liquidity requirements as their joint cash holding 
was considered adequate reserve; they also did not foresee any future changes in 
their circumstances.
They had a medium/high risk profile.
Barclays recommended investments in two Business Property Relief (BPR) investment 
schemes (around £223,000 in each) and three Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) funds 
(investing a total of £118,000). The complainants followed the recommendations, they 
invested jointly in the BPR funds and individually in the EIS funds. In this respect, the report 
mainly says as follows:
The recommendations were viewed as very high-risk investments and Barclays 
acknowledged that they  differ from [the complainants] attitude to risk. Risk 
warnings were given in this respect. It was highlighted that their total capital (around 
£564,000, which amounted to around 29% of their investable estate) could be lost 
and that this level of exposure pushed their overall portfolio towards a high risk and 
speculative profile.
Other risks mentioned in the report include the possibility that BPR and EIS fund 
providers could take up to 18 months to invest client money in companies 
appropriate for the schemes (so this would add to the holding periods required for 
related tax benefits); the risk of fund investments not qualifying for the schemes (and 
their tax benefits); and notice that the funds were highly illiquid and will not be 
accessible whilst they remain invested or before their maturity (and that reinvestment 
after maturity will be necessary to maintain tax benefits). 
The BPR funds were recommended to address the estates potential IHT liability; 
details of the BPR scheme and its tax related benefits were explained; information 
about the two recommended fund providers was given; the benefit of diversification 
between the relevant funds was also noted; a similar approach was taken for the EIS 
funds, with their purpose being to address potential CGT liability arising from 
liquidations required to finance the BPR funds and to address any capital growth 
within them; and the benefit of spreading risk across two different BPR fund providers 
and three different EIS fund providers was noted.
The BPR funds were said to be suitable for the complainants because  [they] wish 
to have access to [their] capital should [they] require it ; because alternative IHT 
planning methods were unsuitable, given that they were not prepared to await seven 
years before assets left their estate; because they had the capacity for loss to match 
such high risk investments (and they did not  require access to the capital  that 
was to be liquidated from existing investments to finance the funds); because 
exposure was diversified within the funds and risk was spread between the different 
fund providers; and because the potential IHT benefits matched their objective. A 
similar analysis, in the context of addressing the estates potential CGT liability, was 
applied to the EIS funds.
Beyond the reasons for the recommendations, the report follows with detailed 
information about the individual key high risks of BPR and EIS funds respectively; 
then with risk notices about the individual fund providers; and then with detailed 
information about fees/charges.
Appendices provide further detailed information about the fund providers. They also 
include a section about options which were considered but discounted. In this 
respect, gifts (to family or a trust) were discounted because the complainants would 
have no benefit from their capital thereafter; a loan to a trust was discounted because 
they would have no access to any growth and would only be able to withdraw capital 
over time; and a Discounted Gift Trust was discounted because withdrawals were not 
flexible, could not be stopped and, if unspent, would return back to the estate. 
The complainants complained in late 2018. They said Barclays recommendations did not 
meet their aim, that they did not fully understand the implications of its advice, that the funds 
were too (and unnecessarily) risky for them (at their ages and given their IHT planning 
objective) and that their options were not properly considered (and were not properly 
presented to them). They also said they were prepared to make gifts out of their estate  
contrary to what the report states. They sought compensation and a refund of fees paid.
In the main, Barclays disputes the complaint and stands by the suitability of its 
recommendations. It also stands by the detailed information provided in the report and it 
disagrees with the complainants claim that the recommendations (and matters 
related/relevant to them) were not properly considered, presented or explained to the 
complainants. Aside from this, it has apologised for the time taken to respond to the 
complaint and it offered £200 to the complainants in this respect.The matter was referred to this service and considered by one of our investigators. She 
mainly concluded as follows:
The complaint should be upheld, Barclays advice to the complainants was 
unsuitable.
It does not appear that the complainants required control over the invested money in 
the manner Barclays has described, given that they had ample disposable income 
and a sizable cash holding. The BPR and EIS funds did not give them such control 
and access anyway, given their illiquid nature and given that they had to be held until 
death in order to achieve the tax benefits that were sought.
There is merit in concluding that the complainants were prepared to make gifts from 
their estate to achieve their objective and could reasonably have been advised to do 
so. 
Barclays advice led to more liquidation of assets than was necessary  which also 
meant unnecessary and avoidable CGT liability; which the EIS funds only deferred 
and did not negate. Some of the CGT deferred by the EIS funds appears, unsuitably, 
to have arisen from the liquidations made to fund the EIS funds to begin with.
Ultimately the recommendations sought to achieve a potential IHT saving of around 
£178,200. However, for the sake of that the complainants were exposed to the very 
high risks (within the funds) of losing all their investment capital of around £564,000. 
This was disproportionate and unsuitable.
The complainants were experienced in investments but it does not appear that they 
understood the complexities of the BPR and EIS funds with regards to their tax 
related objective. The funds also appear to have been unduly complicated for their 
objective and no proper comparison/analysis was conducted between them and the 
alternative of making gifts from the estate. The same applies to the additional 
alternative of a whole of life policy to cover the estates potential IHT liability.
The complainants should be compensated for the unsuitable advice they received 
and, mindful that they have since proceeded with the gifts they wanted to make 
initially, they should receive a refund of the fees they paid.
The complainants and their representative welcomed this outcome. Barclays disputed it, 
mainly as follows:  
It was concerned about the potential for an unreasonable precedent arising from the 
investigators findings with regards to BPR and EIS recommendations commonly 
made by firms for clients IHT and CGT objectives. 
It said the complainants discounted the idea of a whole of life policy, it would have 
been unduly costly given their ages, and that other alternatives were discounted 
because they did not match their need to retain control over and access to their 
capital.
It was not its duty to redefine their objective in this respect (and this also applied to 
their disfavour for making gifts); the alternative of gifting was unsuitable for them, did 
not address the CGT liability it would create and gifting over time was more likely to 
increase IHT liability upon death. 
Its detailed report was fully understood and agreed by the complainants at the time.
The liquidations were justified because the relevant investments were pregnant with 
gains and potential CGT liability, which the EIS funds suitably addressed.
The complainants had previous experience in high risk investments and understood 
the detailed report that recommended the funds (their ages were irrelevant in this 
respect); and given their estates large potential IHT liability, their wealth and their 
level of investment experience, a suitable solution was always going to involve 
significant costs or risks.The investigator was not persuaded to change her view. The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and I uphold 
complaint.
Primarily, I consider that Barclays misguided and appears to have contradicted itself with 
regards to the objective it says it was addressing. This is evident from contents of the report 
mentioned and quoted above. 
It discounted alternative IHT solutions mainly because it considered that they defeated the 
need for control over and access to the complainants capital. The investigator was not 
convinced that such a need existed and I share her concern in this respect. The 
complainants were committing around 29% of their investable assets. They had sufficient 
access to and control over these assets to be in the position to liquidate them at the time and 
evidence suggests that the same could be said about other investments they held. As noted 
by the investigator, they had significant levels of annual disposable income and cash 
reserve. 
The report noted that the complainants had no cash or liquidity requirements at the time and 
in terms of any potential future requirements in this respect I consider that they would 
probably have had sources of capital from any saved disposable income, from their cash 
reserve and/or from investments they could access. In this context, I am not persuaded that 
the capital allocated for Barclays recommendations held special significance in terms of 
being capital that needed to be accessible.
Barclays appears to have misguided itself in this respect. Even if this was a wish expressed 
by the complainants it would not have amounted to a redefinition of their objective for 
Barclays to advise on whether (or not)  and on the basis of the aforementioned points  it 
was necessary or in their best interest. If the complainants received such advice and 
retained their wish regardless, they would have been entitled to do so  but, at least, 
Barclays would have discharged its responsibility to advise suitably in this respect.
This misguidance appears to have been compounded by the contradiction arising from 
Barclays recommendations. Having highlighted the notion of maintaining access to and 
control over the invested capital, it proceeded to recommend products that did the opposite. 
Within the same report, it expressed aspects of the BPR and EIS funds which essentially 
made them inaccessible to the complainants and out of their control. Some of those 
expressions are quoted above. One of the quotes (used above) even goes as far as to say 
their capacity for loss was partly defined by them not requiring access to their capital  which 
conflicted with other contents of the report that said they did.
With such misguidance and contradiction related to the complainants objective Barclays 
cannot reasonably say its recommendations matched their objective. If retention of access to 
and control over capital was not a factor then it ought not to have dismissed the potentially 
suitable (and less complex) alternatives that it says it discounted because they lacked 
access and control; and if access to and control over capital was a factor then the BPR and 
EIS funds were unsuitable because  as the report concedes  they lacked both.
The report also concedes that the recommended funds mismatched the complainants risk 
profile. I used the relevant quote above. This suggests that the recommendations were known to Barclays to be unsuitable in terms of exposure to risk. I am not persuaded that the 
report proceeds to justify, sufficiently, why unsuitably risky funds were being recommended. 
Barclays main arguments are that the complainants had the capacity for high risks, they had 
past experience of high risk investments and that the high risks in the BPR and EIS funds 
were worth it for the potential IHT and CGT benefits. 
Being wealthy and having a high capacity for loss does not automatically mean it is suitable 
to take high risks of losses. The complainants had an untreated potential IHT liability of 
around £850,000. This suggests they had not previously invested in the context of IHT 
planning. The report also says no PETs had been made in the preceding seven years. As 
such, I do not consider their past high risk investments to be relevant as they do not appear 
to have shared the same underlying context. 
In terms of the potential tax benefits of the funds, I agree with the point illustrated by the 
investigator. Given that Barclays had not properly considered and compared suitable 
alternatives  as I have found above  the idea of risking the loss of around £564,000 for the 
sake of saving around £178,200 (around a third of the stake put at high risk) in IHT appears 
to have been disproportionate and unsuitable. I appreciate that such loss might have been 
usable in the wider context of tax deductions but the complainants sought to bequeath as 
much as possible of their estate  not to lose parts of it solely for potential tax deductions.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above I consider that Barclays 
recommendations to the complainants were unsuitable. The investigator explained that her 
view was based on findings in the complainants case and that she neither intended to nor 
did she make findings about IHT planning advice in general. I echo the same, the above 
findings are based on the circumstances of the complainants complaint  they are not 
intended to be general precedent.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put the complainants as close as I can to the position 
they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice by Barclays. 
In terms of their IHT objective I am persuaded that, on balance, they were prepared to make 
gifts from their estate over time and in an IHT efficient manner  as they say they were. I 
appreciate that their decision to do so after terminating Barclays service in 2018 postdates 
the events in 2017 so I have not taken this into consideration. The report reflects sufficiently 
that making gifts was an option they had considered. Barclays could argue that the report 
also states the opposite  that they wanted to retain control of and access to their capital so 
they did not want to make gifts  but I have addressed above how unreliable this particular 
content is.
 
Changes that the complainants would have made to investments around the idea of making 
gifts cannot be concluded with certainty. I consider they would have managed their 
investments differently  and not invested in the BPR and EIS funds  but because it is not 
possible to say precisely what they would have done differently the benchmark comparison 
exercise ordered below becomes appropriate. I also consider that the fees they incurred for 
the BPR and EIS related advice would not have been incurred in the course of the markedly 
less complex and comparatively more straightforward IHT solution of gifting. I am satisfied 
that what I have set out below is fair given the complainants circumstances at the time. 
what must Barclays do?To compensate the complainants fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of the complainants investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the complainants the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. Pay any interest set out below. Conduct a 
separate calculation for each investment and then add the results, if this shows a 
loss that would be the amount payable to the complainants.
Refund its advisers fees to the complainants. Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above 
comparison produces no compensation, the difference between the actual value and 
the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
The gifts the complainants have made now will be subject to IHT for seven years 
thereafter. This would have been the case from 2017 instead, if made then, so 
Barclays must provide an indemnity policy for IHT in this respect.
Undertake responsibility for any CGT liability upon the complainants arising from 
them liquidating the BPR and EIS funds.
Provide details of the calculations to the complainants in a clear and simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investments Status BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional Interest
The 
complainants 
BPR and EIS 
funds    MixedThe FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total 
Return Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income Total 
Return Index)Date(s) 
investments 
began with 
Barclays Date of 
settlement Not applicable 
(compensation is 
calculated to date of 
settlement)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should 
be assumed to be zero. This is provided the complainants agree to Barclays taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Barclays to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from the complainants that they repay it any 
amount they may receive from the investment in future.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
The complainants had a medium based (medium high) risk profile so they were 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Any investment decisions they would 
have made in the context of a gift based IHT planning strategy would probably have 
reflected this.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds, and would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return. 
I consider that this benchmark would reasonably put the complainants into a position 
that broadly reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from an investment(s) 
suited to their profile.
Any additional interest is for the complainants being deprived of the use of any 
compensation money.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs As and Mr As complaint. I order Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay them compensation as set out above and to provide them with a calculation 
of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman