DRN-3618975
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL) wont refund her interest and charges in respect of a 
transaction she made on her credit card.
What happened
In summary, Mrs S says that she paid for a holiday on her AESEL card 
due to take place in May 2020 which was cancelled due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, she says the travel agent (the agent) she paid was 
late in refunding her for the holiday which has caused her to pay 
unnecessary interest and charges on her credit card. She wants AESEL 
to refund these costs.
AESEL said it had correctly charged Mrs S in line with its terms and 
conditions and was not liable to refund her. 
Mrs S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into it 
taking into account AESELs potential liability under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). In summary, she said AESEL 
was not directly responsible for the delay in refunding the money  the 
agent was. So any possible liability for AESEL could only be via Section 
75. However, she didnt think Mrs Ss Section 75 claim was for a valid 
consequential loss in any event.
Mrs S disagreed. In summary she says the agent breached its contract 
with her by failing to reimburse the value of the cancelled holiday within 
a reasonable period and she had no control over the events which led to 
the holiday being cancelled. She believes that Section 75 makes AESEL 
responsible for this and as a cardholder she should not be left out of 
pocket due to the transaction.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 6 July 2022. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness I note that in its final response letter AESEL awarded 
Mrs S £50 for an issue with its complaint handling. That doesnt appear 
to be the complaint point Mrs S has brought to this service or a matter 
still in contention, so I am not going to deal with it further. Also I dont 
consider it useful to consider chargeback in any detail here as by the 
time Mrs S had raised the matter with AESEL she had already received 
a full refund and chargeback would not have recovered any costs 
outside the total value of the card transaction. 
Since our investigator looked at the matter I have asked Mrs S to clarify 
a few things and provide further information. I thank her for sending 
across additional information recently as it has been useful in clarifying 
what took place here.
From what I can see it is not disputed that AESEL has not done anything 
wrong by simply applying interest and charges to the transaction Mrs S 
paid for the holiday. AESELs credit card terms and conditions allow it to 
do this and there is nothing to suggest they were not applied in line with 
these. It was also not directly responsible for any possible delayed 
refund to the card so it wouldnt be fair to say that it caused Mrs S to 
incur costs she would otherwise have avoided. On the face of it, based 
on its own actions AESEL is not fairly liable to refund Mrs S interest and 
charges in relation to the transaction for the holiday.
However, Section 75 is a possible route where AESEL might have some 
liability for the actions of the agent. So for completeness I have 
considered this as well. 
Section 75 can allow Mrs S to hold AESEL responsible for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or 
services purchased using the credit afforded here. However, there are 
certain criteria that have to be met for Section 75 to apply to a particular 
transaction. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the 
parties to the transaction, or the way the payment was made. I am 
satisfied these have been met so I have moved on to consider the 
substance of any potential Section 75 claim.
It should be kept in mind that AESEL is not the provider of travel 
services here. It can only be held responsible for wrongdoing under the 
particular criteria relating to Section 75. Crucially this includes whether 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the service which received the credit card payment. That is the limit of 
its liability. 
In this case the agent received the payment for the service. So I have 
looked to the contract Mrs S has with the agent and whether its actions 
would be considered a breach of said contract.
Mrs S indicated the holiday was cancelled by the supplier and that it 
failed to issue a refund. However, the information I have received 
suggests that in March 2020 Mrs S decided to amend the booking after 
hearing the May 20 booking was unlikely to go ahead (and also 
concerned that the following year was getting booked up). This was no 
doubt a sensible step, but it means that the relevant contractual 
provisions that apply here are those the agent has with Mrs S as follows:
6. If You Want To Change or Cancel Your Holiday
6.1 Any cancellation or amendment request must be sent to us in writing 
by the lead passenger and will not take effect until received by us. If you 
cancel or amend your booking the supplier may charge the cancellation 
or amendment charge shown in their booking conditions (which may be 
100% of the cost of the travel arrangements). We may collect this on 
their behalf and you also must pay us any applicable administration 
charges.
This contractual provision does not say in the event of an amendment 
the agent will apply a temporary refund of sums already paid and then 
request the funds back at a later date. While the agent did eventually 
agree to allow this when Mrs S raised her concern about mounting credit 
card interest some months later I dont consider it has breached its 
contract with her as a result of not doing it straight away.
For completeness, the outcome is not likely to be different even if I 
accept that the supplier cancelled the holiday rather than Mrs S choosing 
to amend the booking herself. The terms that relate to a decision to 
amend a booking in this event (rather than elect to accept a refund) do 
not appear to require the agent to return monies paid in lieu of the re-
arranged date. So again it is difficult to say the agent has breached its 
contract with Mrs S in this scenario either. And even if I accepted that it 
had there is also further complication added as to whether the agent has 
effectively limited its liability for consequential losses resulting from 
unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances such as the pandemic (I dont consider it necessary to go into this in any great detail due to my 
other findings). 
On a wider point had Mrs S requested a refund rather than an 
amendment there is nothing to suggest this wouldnt have been possible. 
From what I can see Mrs S was reluctant to do this at the time because 
she didnt want to possibly lose the amended date.
Mrs S indicates it wouldve been good customer service and efficient to 
have received a credit when the booking was amended. I also 
appreciate that it could be argued that it isnt fair for a supplier to hold on 
to money while she waits for the re-arranged holiday dates  particularly 
as the original booking was not due for payment immediately. But going 
back to what I said before  in considering what is fair for AESEL to do I 
have to look at its liability via Section 75. And in this case because there 
doesnt appear to be a breach of contract by the agent it is not 
reasonable to consider AESEL compensating Mrs S for the 
consequential costs she is seeking.
I asked the parties for their comments. 
AESEL did not add anything. Mrs S said (through her representative) in 
summary:
AESEL and the agent are intrinsically linked and come under the 
definition of business associates;
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term to act with 
reasonable skill and care; and
AESEL and the agent have treated her unfairly and she is out of 
pocket due to the delay in the refund  the pandemic is no excuse 
for this inefficiency or poor customer service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wrote back to Mrs S to explain my thoughts on the matters she had 
raised after the provisional decision. In summary I said:
I dont agree with the interpretation of associates (which is strictly 
defined by the Consumer Credit Act 1974) however, I do and have 
always accepted that the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is in place in order for there to be a Section 75 claim 
against AESEL in respect of the actions of the agent. So I dont 
propose to address this point further.
I agree that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term into a 
service contract in respect of reasonable care and skill. However, I 
think it is difficult for me to agree that the agent has acted without 
reasonable care and skill as they acted in accordance with Mrs Ss 
instructions in re-arranging the holiday and in line with their own 
contract which does not entitle Mrs S to a temporary credit. It also 
appears that Mrs S could have requested a refund instead of a re-
arrangement and would have got her money back sooner. And 
while she mentions that the way it acted was poor customer 
service/unfair I dont think this in itself is enough to say that it acted 
without reasonable care and skill in law, particularly considering 
the context of the pandemic.
Overall, what Mrs S has said does not change my mind as to my findings 
in the provisional decision (as set out earlier). I still consider these fair 
and reasonable for the reasons already given. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman