DRN-3187594
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Alphabet (GB) Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with Alphabet.
On delivery of the car Mr M noticed that the rear seats were damaged/. He took the car to a 
main dealer, who confirmed the damage and said the car would need to be booked in for a 
repair and that the parts would need to be ordered.
Mr M contacted Alphabet to let it know what had happened advised Mr M that the 
manufacturer would contact him once the parts had arrived. It also offered Mr M a payment 
of £200 to compensate him for any inconvenience, which he accepted.
Repairs were completed in September 2021. Mr M contacted Alphabet and said he wasnt 
happy with the repairs. He also complained about a new issue affecting the sat nav system.
Alphabet investigated and spoke to the main dealer who had completed the repairs. It said 
the repairs had been successful and that there was no fault affecting the sat nav.
Based on what the main dealer said, Alphabet rejected Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service. Hes unhappy with the condition of 
the seats following the repairs and wants a price reduction if the issue cant be resolved.
Our investigator looked at everything and said he thought the repair had been successful. 
He said that there wasnt any evidence to suggest that the seats were still faulty.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the seats were still faulty because the leather was rippled. He 
provided some pictures of the seats in a similar car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that goods must be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a  reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a brand new car such as that supplied to Mr M to be of a very high 
standard and  free from defects.
Theres no dispute that there was a fault with the rear seats. Then main dealer who 
inspected the car provided a report. This says there was a tear in the seat foam which 
required repair.
The nub of this complaint is whether the repairs were successful. Mr M doesnt think they 
were. He says the rear seats still look worn.
I can see that the repairs involved replacing the seat foam and replacing the leather covers. 
Ive looked at photos of the seats before and after the repairs and on balance, Im satisfied 
that the repairs have been successful.
I understand that Mr M thinks that the leather seats look worn. This service has discussed 
this further with Alphabet, who in turn spoke to the manufacturer of the car. The 
manufacturer has explained that ripples in the leather are a feature of this car so as to give 
the feeling of luxury and comfort, as opposed to the very tight leather finish in the high 
performance models of this car.
Ive taken account of everything Mr M has said and Ive looked at the images hes provided. 
However, Im not persuaded that the repirs have been unsuccessful, so I wont be asking 
Alphabet to pay for further repairs or allow a rejection of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman