DRN-1569351
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy the Post Office Ltd didnt make the exchange rate clear to him when he 
bought foreign currency using his debit card in a branch. 
Mr B would like to be compensated for the difference in exchange rates on the day in 
question. And he would like the Post Office to make changes to their processes and how 
they staff their branches. 
The Post Office works together with another entity to provide foreign currency services. For 
the purposes of this decision the responsibility of this complaint rests with the Post Office 
Ltd, whom I will refer to throughout this decision. 
What happened
On 17 September 2019 Mr B visited a Post Office branch to buy £750 worth of foreign 
currency. Before visiting the branch, Mr B had looked at the rates online. 
Mr B says in the branch the cashier told him how much currency he would be given, but 
didnt quote the exchange rate to him. Mr B acknowledges the figure he was told was less 
than he had been expecting but presumed the rates had changed and so didnt challenge 
this at the time of the transaction. 
However, after later looking at his receipt and checking the exchange rates, Mr B returned to 
the branch to query the exchange rate that had been used. The Post Office then told Mr B 
there was nothing they could do as he hadnt queried anything when the transaction was 
carried out.
 
Mr B says the Post Office was unaccommodating despite his attempts to resolve the matter, 
and has told us there was no branch manager on site and staff in the branch seemed 
particularly stressed.
 
The Post Office explained that online exchange rates are typically higher than those offered 
in the branch due to how those transactions are processed. And that the website and the 
phone app both say those exchange rates are for online purchases only. The Post Office 
also explained that the exchange rates displayed in the branch are for purchases of £1,000 
or more, and that exchange rates for any other amounts can be asked for at the counter. 
Mr B has said even if he accepts he missed that the online exchange rates were different to 
those available in the branch, the exchange rate offered in the branch window was still more 
than hed received at the counter. So he feels, as a minimum, he should receive an 
additional sum to reflect the difference between the advertised exchange rate on the branch 
display board and what he was given. This is because Mr B doesnt think the exchange rates 
have been made clear enough either on the display board or at the counter. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary, they said there was enough 
information available for Mr B and they felt it fair to say Mr B could have questioned the 
exchange rate at the time of the transaction. The investigator also said there was no 
obligation for the staff member to have quoted the exchange rate at the time. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator as he felt it would be good practice for the exchange 
rate to be made clear before completing the transaction and that the Post Office was hiding 
behind small print.
 
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
 
I understand Mr Bs frustration with whats happened. And having reviewed everything it 
seems Mr B, to some degree, accepts there is a difference between the exchange rates 
online and in the branch. I would note a difference in exchange rates would not be unusual 
given the costs associated with the different processes involved between online and in-
branch transactions. I would also add that setting these rates would be commercial decisions 
on the part of the business and not something I can interfere with. 
In his submissions, Mr B has said the Post Offices branch exchange rate display board was 
misleading. Ive noted that the information on the display board quotes the exchange rate for 
purchases of £1,000 or more and says exchange rates for other amounts can be requested. 
However, my considerations relate to Mr Bs transaction which happened at the counter in 
the branch. Ive therefore considered what happened here. 
Mr B acknowledges that at the counter he was quoted a sum which was less than hed 
expected. And while I understand Mr B said he was trusting the Post Office, I think its fair to 
say this was his opportunity to question the transaction if the amount wasnt what he was 
expecting, and he wasnt sure or was unhappy with it. I understand Mr B believes the cashier 
should have told him the exchange rate, but Im unaware of any obligation for them to have 
done so. And they did  as Mr B accepts  quote him the amount of currency he would 
receive. So in the circumstances, I dont think its fair to say Mr B should receive 
compensation to reflect a higher exchange rate than he was entitled to, and so I dont uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
 
Mr Bs submissions, on several occasions, mention the branchs processes and staffing 
arrangements, but its not for this service to say how the business should run their branch or 
set their processes. So Im unable to look into anything here. Our role is to look at the 
circumstances of the individual complaint. 
My final decision
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my findings but, for the reasons above, my final 
decision is that Mr Bs complaint is not upheld and I make no award against the Post Office 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman