DRN-3767852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs T had booked a cruise holiday. However, while they were away, some of the 
planned port stops on their booked itinerary were cancelled. So they made a claim on their 
policy for cancelled port benefit. 
The relevant policy terms stated that URV required written confirmation of the number of 
cancelled port stops and the reasons for the cancellation. Mr and Mrs T sent URV 
information from the ships captain which set out that some port stops had been cancelled 
for operative reasons.
URV considered the evidence Mr and Mrs T had provided. And it didnt think it had enough 
information to decide whether the claim was covered. So it asked Mr and Mrs Ts cruise 
company to confirm which ports were cancelled; the reasons for their cancellation; whether 
the cancelled ports were swapped with an alternative and if Mr and Mrs T had been paid any 
compensation. The cruise company told URV that Mr and Mrs T would need to get in touch 
with it directly to obtain information about their booking.
On this basis, URV didnt think it had enough evidence to decide whether the claim was 
covered by the contract terms. So it asked Mr and Mrs T for more information before it could 
decide whether or not the claim should be paid.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy that URV hadnt settled their claim. They felt that theyd 
provided enough evidence from the ships captain to show how many port stops had been 
cancelled and why. And they were also unhappy because URV had initially told them it had 
enough information to assess their claim. So they thought it was unreasonable for it to then 
require additional evidence. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She noted that 
policy benefit was only payable if a port stop was cancelled due to adverse weather 
conditions or timetable restrictions. And she didnt think the evidence Mr and Mrs T had 
provided demonstrated whether their port stops had been cancelled for either of these 
reasons. So she didnt feel that Mr and Mrs T had shown that their claim was covered by the 
policy terms. She didnt think URV needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed, and Ive summarised their response. They felt we had been given 
evidence which showed the reasons for the port cancellations; which demonstrated that no 
alternative port stops had been made and that theyd received no compensation. And they 
didnt think the investigator had considered the fact that URV had initially confirmed it had all 
of the information it needed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I think that URV has handled 
their claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the available evidence, to decide whether URV 
treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ts contract with URV. As Mr and Mrs T claimed for cancelled port stop benefit, I think it was 
appropriate for URV to consider the claim in line with If your ships itinerary changes section 
of the policy. This says that URV will pay benefit of up to £300 for a cancelled port stop up to 
a maximum benefit of £1500 for further cancelled port stops if:
A scheduled port of call was cancelled due to adverse weather conditions or time table 
restrictions. (My emphasis added).
This section of the policy also says that URV wont do anything if:
you cannot provide written confirmation from the ships bursar or captain confirming 
the reason for, and the number of, any cancelled port of call visits;
you were offered an alternative port of call;
you were offered any monetary compensation (including on-board credit) by the ship 
or tour operator.
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that URV will pay port benefit if port stops are 
cancelled either because of adverse weather conditions or because of timetable restrictions. 
I think too that URV has clearly explained the evidence it requires before it will pay claims 
under this section.
Mr and Mrs T provided both URV and our service with evidence, from the ships captain, 
showing that there were clear changes to their booked itinerary and that planned port stops 
were cancelled. But in order for these cancellations to be eligible for policy benefit, the 
evidence needs to show that the port cancellations happened because of adverse weather 
conditions or timetable restrictions.
As our investigator explained, its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder 
to provide enough evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy. That means its 
for Mr and Mrs T to send URV enough evidence to demonstrate that the port cancellations 
happened for one of the two reasons the policy covers. 
Initially, URVs claims team considered the evidence which had already been provided by Mr 
and Mrs T to decide whether it showed they had a valid claim on their policy. I appreciate it 
mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs T when they learned that URV needed additional 
evidence before it could conclude whether the claim should be paid. But generally, I dont 
think its unfair, unreasonable or indeed, unusual, for an insurer to require further information 
during the claims process if it identifies it doesnt have enough evidence to determine 
whether a claim should be settled.Ive looked closely at the evidence from the ships captain which Mr and Mrs T have 
provided. I accept that it shows the port stops were cancelled. However, the cancellation 
reason given by the ships captain was operative reasons. It could be that these operative 
reasons were down to adverse weather conditions or timetable restrictions. But equally, 
operative reasons may have been down to other causes which simply arent covered by the 
policy terms. And on that basis, I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude it required 
more information about the cancelled port stops  including the actual reason for 
cancellation; whether any swaps took place and whether the cruise company had paid Mr 
and Mrs T any compensation.
URV contacted the cruise company directly by email to ask for this information. Ive seen a 
copy of its email. I think this was a pragmatic and appropriate step from URV to try and limit 
the inconvenience Mr and Mrs T were put to in dealing with their claim. However, Ive seen 
the response from the cruise company which states, in brief, that Mr and Mrs T would need 
to contact it directly. It seems to me then that theres little more URV can do to progress this 
claim unless its provided with the evidence it needs to decide whether or not its covered by 
the policy terms.
As such, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ts frustration, I simply dont think its unreasonable 
for URV to conclude that it doesnt have enough evidence to accept and settle this claim. I 
dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that Mr and Mrs T hadnt shown, on balance, 
that their claim was covered. It remains open though to Mr and Mrs T to obtain further 
evidence from the cruise company and to send this to URV for its further consideration. If 
theyre unhappy with any further assessment of their claim, they may be able to bring a new 
complaint to us about that issue alone.
Overall, Ive decided that URV has handled this claim fairly. And so it follows that Im not 
directing URV to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman