DRN-2813406
The complaint
Miss P complains that she was told incorrect information by Nationwide Building Society.  
What happened
Miss P opened a Save to Buy Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Nationwide with the
intention of saving towards a deposit to buy her first house but she thought shed opened a
Help to Buy ISA.
Miss P had a number of email exchanges with a Nationwide mortgage adviser closer to the
time she intended to buy her first home. In March 2019, Miss P asked the mortgage adviser
to look at the account and provide a figure of what the (government) bonus is likely to be.
The mortgage adviser gave Miss P a link for the Help to Buy ISA government website and
explained how the government bonus worked for that ISA.
In July 2019, Miss P emailed the mortgage adviser as she was looking to close her Save to
Buy ISA. She explained that her solicitor had advised her that they needed a copy of the
closing statement and government bonus and asked how to close this account. The
mortgage adviser explained to Miss P that she could close the account in branch or online
and that this would generate the closing statement that the solicitor needs. Miss P visited a
branch and closed the Save to Buy ISA. She says that a member of staff told her that the
closing statement would be sent out in the post but she didnt receive a closing statement so
she contacted Nationwide where she was informed she didnt have a Help to Buy ISA but
had a Save to Buy ISA so thats why she didnt receive a closing statement.
Miss P says she was told to speak to the mortgage adviser to see if she could get a decision
in principle for the property she wanted to buy but they would have to start the process from
the beginning. Miss P says she met with the mortgage adviser and a decision in principle
was agreed with Nationwide.
Miss P said the mortgage adviser contacted their head office to see if she could get the
cashback which she wouldve been eligible for if she completed her mortgage with
Nationwide as part of the Save to Buy ISA terms and conditions  these state that If you
complete a Save to Buy mortgage you will also be eligible for any associated benefits, such
as cashback. When Miss P opened the Save to Buy ISA the maximum cashback on the
Save to Buy mortgage was £1,000 if she had saved £10,000 or more. Miss P was told that
as she had closed the Save to Buy ISA then she wouldnt be eligible for the cashback under
the Save to Buy mortgage.
Miss P also said that the Nationwide mortgage adviser knew that she was using a mortgage
broker and didnt make it clear to her that the mortgage would need to be taken out through
Nationwide to get the cashback/bonus on the ISA she held with them.
Miss P complained to Nationwide as she said she had emails from the mortgage adviser
where she believed she had a Help to Buy ISA. Miss P said she was advised to close the
account down so she did and then she found out that she wasnt entitled to the government
bonus as she had a Save to Buy ISA instead and wasnt entitled to the cashback after
closing the account. Miss P finally said that she was dissatisfied with the communication of
both products and felt that shed been misled.
Nationwide did not uphold Miss Ps complaint. They said that Miss P opened the Save to
Buy ISA on 2 March 2015 but the Help to Buy ISA was only launched on 1 December 2015.
Nationwide said she had been sent annual statements confirming what account she held.
Nationwide said that Miss P had instructed the branch to close her Save to Buy ISA, so she
wasnt eligible for the cashback and said they cant agree they led her to believe she had a
Help to Buy ISA or that any of the communication to her was misleading.
Miss P took out a mortgage with another provider to avoid the risk of losing the property as
she said the issue with Nationwide was holding up the chain. She couldnt recall how the
mortgage interest rates compared with Nationwide and the provider she went with.
Miss P was left disappointed by Nationwides response so she brought her complaint to our
service. Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint. The investigator concluded that
Nationwide had a duty of care in the email exchanges to let her know specific information
about the account she had. The investigator felt Nationwide should pay Miss P £500 as they
took away her option to receive cashback on the Help to Buy mortgage when they said she
could close the Help to Buy ISA in the branch and for distress and inconvenience she had
suffered.
Nationwide disagreed with the view of the investigator. They said that Miss P was making
general enquiries about obtaining a government bonus, which is only applicable to a Help to
Buy ISA, therefore their agent responded to her queries on that basis. The information their
mortgage adviser gave was correct for the questions Miss P asked. Miss P said that she
believed Nationwide acted unfairly when they advised her to close the account.  
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I have to consider here is whether Nationwide are responsible for Miss P
believing that she had a Help to Buy ISA rather than a Save to Buy ISA when she took the
account out. The Help to Buy ISA, as a type of product, wasnt actually available when Miss
P took out her particular ISA here. Nationwide have also said that she wouldve received a
copy of the terms and conditions when she opened the Save to Buy ISA which wouldve
clearly explained how the account works and doesnt mention anything about the Help to
Buy ISA or any government bonus  and wouldnt have where this product wasnt launched
yet.
This would have then been supported by Miss Ps annual statements clearly showing she
holds a Save to Buy ISA. I havent seen any evidence of Nationwide telling her she holds a
Help to Buy ISA  even when the mortgage adviser responds to what appear to be Help to
Buy ISA queries, she doesnt say that Miss P had this account. So Im satisfied that their
communication has been clear about what type of account Miss P had. I realise the names
are very similar and that Miss P has admitted shes been confused about what type of
account she had  but thats not something I think would be fair to hold Nationwide
responsible for here.
So then Ive considered how Nationwide dealt with Miss Ps queries around her ISA when
she was looking to take out a mortgage. I think that in writing and speaking to Miss P about
this, they did give her some inaccurate information and this led to her taking the actions shedid with her ISA. Ill explain why.
There are a few different points where I think Nationwide could have been clearer about the
type of account she had. Ive seen email exchanges between Miss P and the Nationwide
mortgage adviser. In an email dated 11 March 2019, she asked for the mortgage adviser to
look at her account in relation to the government bonus. Had the mortgage adviser looked at
Miss Ps account they wouldve quickly been able to tell that Miss P had a Save to Buy ISA
and wouldnt be eligible for the government bonus Miss P asked her about. So while the
information the mortgage adviser gave Miss P was not incorrect, it also wasnt what Miss P
asked her to do. The mortgage adviser gave her a link to the government website for Help to
Buy ISAs. So Im persuaded that by giving her a link to the government website that Miss P
believed she was eligible for the government bonus and thats why at times she thought she
had a Help to Buy ISA.
In an email dated 21 July 2019 Miss P specifically asked questions about closing her Save
to Buy ISA. She mentions the closing statement and government bonus. But, based on the
Save to Buy ISA that she specifically mentioned, theres no government bonus or closing
statement to give to the solicitor for that account. The mortgage adviser said to Miss P that
she can close the account either in branch or online and that generates the closing
statement. The mortgage adviser says its best to close the account at least two weeks
before completion just to make sure she has everything she needed. By doing this Im
persuaded that the adviser didnt answer her question regarding the Save to Buy ISA as she
specifically names the product in that email. Im satisfied thats why Miss P took the action of
closing the account.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide could have been clearer in the advice it gave Miss P. But I
dont think I can fairly say this led to a financial loss for her and nor do I think that it means
they have to pay her the cashback element of the ISA now. Ultimately this was only payable
if Miss P secured a mortgage through Nationwide and Im not persuaded that its most likely
she wouldve done this if Nationwide correctly advised her.
I say this as Miss P was using a mortgage broker at the time. Mortgage brokers often have
access to preferential rates with a number of different providers which arent available
through branches. They can also look at saving money for their clients such as lower product
fees and different types of mortgages. So even if she was eligible for the cashback on the
Nationwide mortgage, she may not have taken the mortgage through Nationwide because
the benefits of a lower product fee, interest rate or the term of product may be of more value
than cashback on the mortgage.
Miss P has said she potentially wouldve taken the mortgage with Nationwide had it been
clear to her about the cashback. So while Miss P says Nationwide effectively took this option
away from her by telling her what they did in the emails, I dont think I can fairly say that
Nationwides actions here led a to a financial loss as she didnt end up taking the mortgage
through Nationwide and there was no certainty she ever would. Although Miss P says she
felt she had to take the mortgage through another provider, or she feared she would lose the
property, ultimately this was her choice to do so.
Our investigator has suggested that £500 would be fair for Nationwide to pay Miss P for
taking away the option of her obtaining the cashback due to the circumstances of Miss P
closing the Save to Buy ISA and for distress and inconvenience but I dont think that it would
be fair for Nationwide to pay this amount.
For the reasons above, Im not persuaded that Nationwides mistakes here have led to Miss
P losing out on the cashback. There are simply no guarantees that Miss P wouldve taken
out the mortgage with Nationwide even if there was cashback available. But I do think thatNationwide gave her incorrect information as she specifically asked them about a Save to
Buy ISA and asked for the mortgage adviser to look at her account.
The impact of the incorrect information will have been frustrating for Miss P at a time which
would likely be already stressful for her buying her first home. As she had to wait to receive
the correct information this will have also inconvenienced her and put pressure on her
completing the mortgage before she lost the house. For this Im satisfied that £200 is a fair
amount here. While Miss P will be disappointed that Ive reduced the award of our
investigator, I hope she understands that I havent taken this step lightly, but Ive done so as
Im satisfied its the fair amount for what happened here. So it follows I will be asking
Nationwide to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Nationwide responded and said they accepted my provisional decision. Miss P 
responded and she did not accept my provisional decision. 
Miss P made a number of points in her response to my provisional decision. In summary she 
felt the provisional decision wasnt fair and felt the word frustrating was an insult to what 
she says was inaccurate information, advice and lack of support throughout the whole 
process from Nationwide. She also said that while she accepts that there is no 100% 
guarantee that she would have utilised the product with the cashback, theres no 100% 
guarantee that she wouldnt have utilised it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I would like to apologise to Miss P if she found the word frustrating as insulting. 
This was not my intention. Ive thought about what Miss P has said regarding that it wasnt 
100% that she wouldnt take out the Nationwide mortgage. I agree with what shes said here. 
But as I documented in my provisional decision I dont think I can fairly say that Nationwides 
actions here led a to a financial loss as she didnt end up taking the mortgage through 
Nationwide and there was no certainty she ever would. Although Miss P says she felt she 
had to take the mortgage through another provider, or she feared she would lose the 
property, ultimately this was her choice to do so. The cashback was only payable if Miss P 
secured a mortgage through Nationwide and Im not persuaded that its most likely she 
wouldve opened a Nationwide mortgage even if Nationwide gave her the answers to her 
questions accurately. But I am satisfied that £200 is fair and reflects the impact the incorrect 
information had on her for the reasons Ive previously given.
In summary, Miss Ps response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Miss P will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope she understands my reasons. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I suggested Nationwide should pay Miss P £200 for the impact the 
incorrect information had on her and Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons 
given previously.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society should pay Miss P £200.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman