DRN-3188919
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) gave him an unreasonably low 
settlement offer for his car after it was stolen.
What happened
Mr C bought a used car in June 2020 and insured it with Tesco. In July 2021, his car was 
stolen, so he made a claim on his motor insurance. Tesco agreed to settle the claim and 
initially offered Mr C £49,160, less his excess.
Mr C didnt accept this. He said that his car was worth a lot more than Tescos offer. He 
provided two adverts showing similar cars on sale for over £66,000. Tesco reviewed its 
valuation and increased this slightly, to £50,000. It offered Mr C this, less the excess, as final 
settlement.
Mr C was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said his car was a 
very specialist car with few of its make, model, and specification available for sale in the UK. 
He estimated that it would cost him £63,000 to replace his car like for like.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He checked 
Tescos offer against trade guide valuations and found it was consistent with these trade 
guide valuations. He thought Tescos offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section C of Mr Cs policy explains how Tesco will settle a claim if his car is stolen. This says 
it will pay the market value of the car, less his policy excess. Market value is defined as: 
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Tesco says it used two trade guides to value Mr Cs car. These trade guides provided 
market valuations of between £47,000 and £50,400 for Mr Cs car. Tescos final settlement 
offer was at the higher end of this range.
Mr C provided copies of bank transactions showing he paid £47,390 for his car in June 2020. 
He says he made improvements to the car, but I havent seen any evidence of this or 
anything to suggest Tescos valuations should have taken this into account.
Our investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont try to 
value the car ourselves but instead we consider whether the insurers offer is reasonable. To 
do this, we first look at trade guides, which are particularly useful for valuing second-hand 
vehicles because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides also consider other factors, such as the cars condition. 
In this case, Im satisfied that Tescos offer was reasonable. It referred to two recognised 
trade guides for valuations based on the same make, model, age, mileage, and condition of 
Mr Cs car at the date it was stolen. It provided us with copies of these valuations. As our 
investigator explained, weve checked the trade guides ourselves and found very similar 
valuations. I also note that Tescos offer is higher than Mr C paid for his car a year earlier.
I accept that Mr C has provided adverts showing similar cars for sale at higher prices. While 
we can consider these, generally the final sales price will be lower than the advertised price. 
Thats why we first look to the trade guides, as these provide stronger evidence of retail 
selling prices.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that Tescos settlement offer was fair. Tesco paid Mr C 
£49,350 in September 2021, pending the outcome of his complaint to this service. I wont be 
asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman