DRN-3641566
The complaint
Miss G complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs actions when blocking her account.
What happened
In January 2021, Lloyds blocked Miss Gs account. Miss G wasnt able to access the money 
in her account and said this impacted her daily life as she couldnt pay her rent and/or bills.
Lloyds responded to Miss Gs complaint and confirmed that her account had a processing 
delay in place and therefore couldnt be used. The letter didnt give Miss G any indication of 
how long her account would remain blocked. But the block was removed around 
12 February 2021.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Our service reached out to Miss G on a number of 
occasions for more information on why the block occurred so our investigator could conclude 
whether Lloyds actions were fair. Lloyds didnt respond with sufficient information, so our 
investigator asked that they pay £500 compensation for the inconvenience.
Lloyds responded and explained that they were complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations at the time. And they said they completed their review promptly  in around 25 
days. So, they didnt agree they should pay compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
In July 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Lloyds are strictly regulated must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Miss Gs account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Lloyds actions were appropriate in the circumstances, Id 
need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during the 
review. Lloyds hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I cant confidently say 
their actions were reasonable.
I have however considered that the block was applied for around 25 calendar days. While I 
dont doubt this would have been inconvenient and worrying for Miss G, I dont consider it 
would have had an overall detrimental impact. I say that because the block was for less than 
one month. So even if Miss G couldnt make bill payments on time, based on the dates the 
block was applied for, Miss G could have reasonably still made the payments in the same 
month they were due, once the block was removed.  
So I recognised this overall situation would have been stressful for Miss G and I hadnt seen 
enough evidence to satisfy me that Lloyds actions were wholly appropriate. As the block 
was applied and removed in less than a month, I thought £150 compensation was 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. Miss G responded and was 
unhappy. She explained the block had affected her daily routine, credit scores and day to 
day expenses which caused mental stress. Miss G also explained that she had to borrow 
money from friends and family to get through this situation and that caused her 
embarrassment. Miss G wanted more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how Miss G is feeling, but I have to make my decision based on the full 
circumstances. I appreciate being without access to the account would have been 
distressing for Miss G, and Im sorry she found herself in that position. While I recognise it 
caused her embarrassment, Im pleased she was able to borrow money during the block to 
mitigate the impact on her. But overall, Lloyds are entitled to block accounts while they carry 
out reviews  and as they did this within less than a month, I cant reasonably say they 
caused unnecessary delays. 
Ive also thought carefully about Miss Gs comments in relation to her credit score. I havent 
seen any evidence of Miss Gs credit score being affected by Lloyds actions so I cant fairly 
uphold the complaint on this part.
It therefore wouldnt be reasonable for me to increase the amount of compensation as 
suggested in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I consider £150 to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss G.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. To 
put things right, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Miss G £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman