DRN-1471023
 
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the service shes received from Domestic and General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) when she requested for her Sky box to be repaired. 
What happened
Mrs J has a Sky Protect policy which provides cover for her Sky equipment. Her Sky box 
wasn't working, so she arranged an appointment for an engineer to visit and repair the box 
on Friday 28 June 2019. The appointment was arranged for between 8am and 5pm.
On the morning of the appointment, she received a text message to say the engineer would 
arrive between 5:15pm to 7:15pm. As she received no further communication and no-one 
had arrived, Mrs J called at 7pm to find out where the engineer was. She then received a 
voicemail saying the engineer was running late and wouldn't be able to make the 
appointment that day. Mrs J was very unhappy as shed taken the day off work. They tried to 
arrange for the engineer to come the next working day (which was Monday) but Mrs J had to 
go to work and had already taken one day. She asked if they could visit that weekend. 
However, there were no appointments for the weekend and so a second appointment was 
scheduled for the next working day - Monday 1 July. 
Mrs J complained to D&G. It responded and said it was sorry for what happened and paid 
her £25.00 compensation in recognition of the poor service. 
She brought the complaint to this service as she didn't feel £25 compensation reflected the 
inconvenience shed suffered. Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he thought 
Mrs J had been caused trouble and upset which meant that she had to take two days off 
work to ensure the Sky box was repaired. He upheld the complaint and said he 
recommended that D&G award a further £75. 
D&G responded and said it didn't agree with the investigators recommendation but offered a 
further £25.00 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs J didn't agree with the further £25 offer from D&G but did agree with the investigators 
recommendation of a further £75.
D&G has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. So the complaint has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide here is about the level of service D&G provided to Mrs J. Mrs J took a day off work with a view that her Sky box would be repaired on 28 June 2019. 
While she received a text on the morning of that day, there was no further communication 
from D&G to confirm whether the engineer would indeed be arriving within the time stated of 
5:15pm to 7:15pm. 
If Mrs J hadn't called D&G she wouldn't have known even that late in the day what had 
actually happened. I appreciate that there are times engineers are delayed and some 
circumstances are unforeseen. However, theres an expectation that at the very least, she 
would be kept updated if there were any delays. I cant see she was kept updated. 
Mrs J said she had to take a second day off as leave because of the poor service she 
received from D&G. I appreciate that D&G have said that the engineer appointments and 
schedules are something which aren't within its control as Sky would have arranged all of 
this. I acknowledge this point. But, ultimately, Mrs J has a contract under her policy with 
D&G and not Sky. Therefore, its D&G that has to take on the responsibility for the poor level 
of service Mrs J encountered. 
Mrs J had already taken one day off work and then had to take a second day. She had short 
notice to make those arrangements over the weekend with her work. She also wasn't kept 
updated on 28 June when the engineer was due to come and then didn't arrive  she 
wouldn't have known had she not called D&G that evening. 
Overall, I think, in the circumstances of this complaint, £100 is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation in recognition of the poor service Mrs J received. 
Putting things right
I conclude that £100 is a fair and reasonable offer of compensation in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Mrs J has already been paid £25 of this and so Domestic and General 
Insurance Plc should pay the remaining £75 within 28 days of receiving notice of Mrs Js 
acceptance of this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs J's complaint against Domestic and General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman