DRN-1666237
Complaint
This complaint is about two credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1997 at the same time. Miss A says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss As case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss A applied for both her credit cards on one paper application form and Ive seen a copy 
of it. This form had a section to add PPI. Customers had the option to select a Yes option to 
add PPI, or a No option to decline it. The option to add PPI has been ticked and the form has 
been signed. So overall, I think Barclays made it clear that Miss A didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose to take it out  although given how long ago these policies were sold, I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss A got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
I understand Miss A says she was employed and had good sick pay provided by her 
employer which she couldve used to help her meet her repayments if she found herself 
unexpectedly out of work because of illness or injury. She also says she was entitled to 
redundancy pay. But these policies wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and redundancy 
pay and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. The PPI also couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months if she lost her job. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss 
A, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss A any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman