DRN-3437140
The complaint
Ms R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund a transaction 
from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) that debited her account but never dispensed the 
funds she requested.
What happened
Ms R has explained that she tried to use an ATM which failed to dispense funds on two 
occasions. Ms R first tried to withdraw £250 from the ATM on 11 April, the ATM didnt 
dispense any funds and issued a receipt stating she hadnt been charged. Ms R then tried a 
smaller amount of £50 from the same ATM which again didnt dispense the funds and issued 
a receipt stating she hadnt been charged.
Ms R then went to a different ATM nearby which successfully dispensed £250. Ms R then 
noticed that her account had been debited with two amounts of £250, whereas she says she 
only received one amount of £250. Ms R produced a screenshot of her mobile banking app 
which showed two withdrawals for £250 which she believed evidenced the additional debit 
from her account from the failed ATM withdrawal. 
Ms R contacted Halifax about this who looked into what had happened and requested details 
from the operator of the ATM. Halifax temporarily credited Ms Rs account with the £250 
whilst they investigated. Halifax received a report that the machine had successfully 
dispensed £250 using Ms Rs card on 10 April and advised Ms R they were taking the 
temporary credit back out of her account. 
The ATM was checked on 12 April and was found to have a higher balance than expected. 
What that meant is the machine had £120 more than it should have done, indicating there 
had been a problem with its operation prior to 12 April. 
Ms R complained to Halifax about her issue and after looking into the earlier decision not to 
refund her, Halifax maintained their position and declined any further refund. Ms R was 
unhappy with how her loss had been dealt with and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman for an independent review. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for evidence from both parties. Ms 
R explained what had happened with the ATM on 11 April and sent evidence of two receipts 
from the failed attempts to obtain money from the ATM. 
Halifax supplied evidence from the operator of the ATM which showed that on 10 April and 
11 April, there were two withdrawals for £250. Ms Rs statements also showed these 
withdrawals and were recorded on 12 April with the specific dates of the withdrawals also 
shown. Ms Rs complaint wasnt upheld by our investigator. 
Ms R disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of her 
complaint. Ms R believed there was a difference between the receipts she received for the 
failed transactions and a previous successful one, suggesting that something was wrong 
with the ATM. Ms R also thought that the dates relating to the 10 April withdrawal were 
wrong and referred to the date shown on her banking app (12 April). Ms R stated she was 
told the debits were recorded the next working day on her statement , believing that this 
meant the withdrawal took place on 11 April. 
Ms Rs complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive closely examined the receipts provided by Ms R and the audit data from Halifax and the 
operator of the ATM. What that evidence shows is that there were two withdrawals, each for 
£250. One took place on 10 April 2021 and the next one took place on 11 April 2021. 
Ms Rs receipts from 11 April are incomplete. Theres what appears to be a printing gap 
which obscures some of the information, but its possible to determine what was printed. 
They show two attempted withdrawals, both of which were unsuccessful, and the receipts 
show the account wasnt debited. 
Ms Rs statements and the screenshot of her mobile banking app show two withdrawals 
recorded as 12 April. The statement included additional details about the withdrawals 
including the actual dates they were made (10 and 11 April). Ms R is correct in thinking that 
theres often a delay in recording the information on the statement and in this case the 
withdrawals were entered onto the statement on 12 April (Monday), but its not correct to 
think this meant it was necessarily the day before when these withdrawals were made. Both 
withdrawals were made over the weekend, so I dont think its unusual that they werent 
recorded on the statement until 12 April. Whats relevant here is that the actual dates of the 
withdrawals were also entered, which matches the authentication data recorded by Halifax.
Ms R believed there were differences between the receipts she received from 11 April and 
other successful withdrawals. As Ive mentioned, the failed withdrawals had a printing gap in 
them, so to an extent they are different to the successful one she sent in for comparison, but 
I dont think this makes them any less authentic. Whilst its apparent that the ATM was 
having problems, I dont think it resulted in Ms R being wrongly debited that day. 
When the owners of the ATM checked it, it had more funds left in it than expected. This can 
be caused by several different factors and Ive considered if it was the result of a problem 
when Ms R tried to withdraw money from it on 11 April. The excess funds dont match or 
closely match the money she tried to withdraw. If there were funds left in the machine that 
were similar to her attempted withdrawals, then that would be a different matter. Here they 
didnt, so I dont think the excess funds related to Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R has said she wasnt complaining about the second attempt she made at the ATM 
because it didnt show as a debit on her statement. What the means here is that Ms R 
believed there were problems with one failed ATM withdrawal and not the other. Im afraid I 
dont see the difference between the two failed withdrawals. What I mean by that is if there 
was a problem with the receipts and the date on the first withdrawal, presumably theyd also 
be applicable to the second failed attempt? What Ms R has said in effect is that because her 
account wasnt debited, the second withdrawal was recorded correctly. But thats also the 
case for the first failed attempt to withdraw £250  it also wasnt debited from her account.
The records show that two successful withdrawals were made on different days, which were 
recorded on Ms Rs statements. Neither of the failed ATM transactions were debited from Ms 
Rs account. So, I think the receipts were correct because the ATM didnt dispense any cash that day, but it had the previous day when it was used by Ms Rs card to withdraw the first 
£250. I think this is the transaction that Ms R believes was wrongly debited on 11 April. 
Ms R had also commented that her daily limit would have prevented the two withdrawals 
which was evidence that something had gone wrong with the ATM. Whilst the evidence Ive 
seen doesnt support two withdrawals on the same day, Halifax have shown that Ms Rs 
daily limit would have supported two withdrawals of £250. 
When Ms R first notified Halifax about the problem they temporarily credited her account 
with the funds while they investigated. Once they were satisfied the ATM hadnt mistakenly 
debited Ms Rs account, they took back the credit. In the circumstances I think this was 
reasonable as they had evidence from the ATM owner showing a successful withdrawal on 
10 April. 
I havent seen any evidence that points to Ms Rs account being wrongly debited and I think 
it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Ms R liable for these transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman