DRN-3163740
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bamboo Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021 that I summarise below.
Very little of the original loan documentation has been provided, but from what Ive seen, Mr 
M was given a loan of £3,500 by Bamboo in June 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £229. Mr M refinanced his loan in April 2020. He settled his 
first loan and took around £1,299 in cash. I understand the second loan was repayable over 
24 monthly repayments of about £254.
In my provisional decision I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in 
particular the checks that Bamboo needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
I said that Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. And that Bamboo had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that he 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
Bamboo asked Mr M for information about his income and it acquired a credit report before 
providing the loans. Bamboo used ONS data to calculate Mr Ms living expenses and says 
that its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that both loans were affordable for 
him.
On the face of it, it would seem that Mr M had sufficient disposable income to afford both 
loans.
But I thought that Bamboo was aware from its credit checks each time that Mr M was 
already paying a significant proportion of his net monthly income to meet his existing credit 
commitments, which seem likely to be increased further by lending from Bamboo. Neither 
credit report showed significantly adverse information, but Mr M had several credit cards, a 
substantial HP credit commitment and high balance to limit credit ratios. Mr M had also 
increased his level of indebtedness overall prior to loan 2.
Mr M was applying to Bamboo for costly loans, repayable each time over an extended two-
year period. Taking everything into account, I would have expected the lender to want to 
obtain a thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances to satisfy itself that he
could sustainably repay both loans over the whole loan term.  So I thought that Bamboo 
ought reasonably to have realised that, in the circumstances, for its checks to be reasonable 
and proportionate, it should carry out more detailed and independent checks into Mr Ms 
financial circumstances  for example by asking to see bank statements.
But from the evidence Id seen, it is not clear to me whether better checks by Bamboo would 
have uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr M might have difficulty repaying 
either loan in a sustainable manner.
Mr M provided his own credit report to us. However, generally, the information a consumer 
might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen 
by a lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can 
take some time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable 
and proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. So, this may explain any 
differences between the information shown in Bamboos credit checks and the information 
Mr M says it should have seen. 
Mr M told Bamboo that he was entering a debt management plan shortly after taking the 
second loan. So it seems that he was having some financial difficulties by then. But I didnt 
have enough information for me to fairly say that irresponsible lending by Bamboo caused 
these financial difficulties.
I thought about whether the checks that Bamboo did carry out ought reasonably to have led 
it to decline to lend to Mr M on either occasion. On balance, I didnt think they did.
Without additional information, I could not say what better checks by Bamboo would have 
shown when Mr M applied for either loan. And from what Id seen, I couldnt fairly say that I 
think Bamboo ought simply to have declined either loan application based on the information 
it had gathered.
Mr Ms representatives were asked to provide Mr Ms bank statements by this service, but 
they hadnt done so. So although I think the lender should have done more to check Mr Ms 
true financial position before it agreed either loan, I couldnt fairly say that Bamboo shouldnt 
have lent to Mr M or that it lent to him irresponsibly on either occasion. 
I said I was not intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint about either loan as I hadn't seen 
enough evidence to say that better checks in respect of these loans would have led to either 
loan being declined. And Id not seen anything which made me think that Bamboo treated Mr 
M unfairly in any other way.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent 
seen new evidence from either Mr M or Bamboo. The deadline for further comments has 
now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any new evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I know Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him that I carefully considered all 
the evidence and arguments that I have seen about this matter. 
Taking everything into account, I cannot fairly say that I think Bamboo lent to Mr M 
irresponsibly or that it has treated him unfairly in some other way. So I do not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman