DRN-3710030
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided poor service when he made a 
claim made on his Home Emergency Cover policy. 
What happened
Mr H had Heating System, Plumbing and Electrics Plus cover with Aviva. This provided 
cover for his propertys plumbing and drainage amongst other things. 
On 1 November 2021, Mr H reported a blocked drain. He said that sewage water wasnt 
clearing from the manhole. 
On 2 November 2021, Avivas engineer came out to inspect the manhole and drain. Aviva 
said the engineer had lifted the manhole cover and rodded the drain. It said this had failed to 
clear the blockage, so the engineer had then used a high pressure jetter. It said he then 
confirmed the blockage had been cleared by using a camera. But that this had identified that 
the manhole chamber had dropped, causing a belly in the line. Aviva said that it told Mr H 
that it was his responsibility to arrange the work required to repair the bellying of the 
manhole as it considered this was remedial work required to prevent future issues.
Mr H said that Aviva had declined to cover his claim as it said the manhole wasnt a drain. 
Mr H spoke to Aviva about his claim on 3 November 2021. It told him that his policy didnt 
cover the installation of a new manhole. So Mr H raised a complaint.  He felt that he still had 
a drain problem. He wanted Aviva to cover the costs of having the works he felt he needed 
completed privately. Aviva said that its engineer had cleared the drain when theyd visited. 
At Mr Hs request, Aviva sent him copies of all the reports and photographs itd taken. 
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 24 November 2021. It said the policy 
terms and conditions didnt cover the installation of a new manhole, as it wasnt a drain, and 
didn't form part of what is covered. It included an extract of the terms and conditions to 
show what was covered. So it didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
Mr H told Aviva there was still an issue with his drain. So Aviva sent an engineer. He said 
there was no blockage, but recommended that a patch liner was installed to prevent any 
back flow from the drain. Aviva arranged a further visit to complete this work on 20 January 
2022.
Aviva said that when the engineer arrived at Mr Hs property to complete this work, he 
discovered an issue with subsidence at the side of the property. It said this had led to Mr Hs 
manhole dropping. It told Mr H that the work required to rectify this issue wasnt covered by 
his insurance. It said this was because itd cleared the blockage, which was the immediate 
emergency. And that any work required to prevent further issues occurring in the future was 
classed as remedial work. It said this was Mr Hs responsibility to complete. 
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to this service in May 2022. He didnt think Aviva had 
acted correctly, as he felt the drain ran through the manhole which surrounded it. And 
therefore that a manhole is an important and integral part of a drain. 
Mr H told this service that hed had to arrange for the necessary repair work to be 
undertaken through his building insurers. He said the work had now been completed. And 
that it had required the replacement of underground drainage pipes as well as the manhole. 
He wanted Aviva to refund him the costs hed incurred when claiming under his building 
insurance. He said this included the £100 excess. And his estimate of the significant 
increases to his building insurance premiums in years to come, which he felt amounted to 
around £335. In total, Mr H wanted Aviva to pay him £435 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said that after reviewing 
the terms of the policy and the circumstances of the claim, he didnt agree that Aviva had 
made an error. He felt Aviva had correctly declined the claim on the basis that the manhole 
was outside of the policy terms.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He said that Aviva had declined his claim on the 
basis that a manhole wasnt a drain. Therefore he felt that the crux of the dispute was 
whether it was or wasnt a drain. Mr H felt that a manhole was an integral part of the drain. 
And that if Aviva had wanted to exclude manholes from drain cover it couldve done so. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that Aviva correctly 
declined the claim. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr H. Ill explain the reasons 
for it. 
Mr Hs position is that Aviva acted unfairly and unreasonably when it declined to cover his 
claim on the basis that a manhole cover is not a drain.
In order to assess whether I consider Aviva acted fairly, Ive reviewed Mr Hs policy and its 
terms and conditions. 
Mr Hs policy provided cover if something went wrong in his home. The terms and conditions 
explained this as follows:
This policy provides insurance cover in relation to emergencies and other domestic 
problems.
Specifically, the policy covered:
Plumbing and Drainage
Leaking pipes within your home
Blocked drains
Blockages to sinks and toilets
Leaks or blockages to your water supply pipeDripping or seized taps
The terms of the policy also stated: 
The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing leaking pipes; 
clearing blocked drainsThe engineer will leave a blocked drain running clear or repair a 
damaged section of drain which is leaking or causing a permanent blockage.
I understand that this is exactly what Avivas engineer did when he first visited Mr Hs 
property. But that in the course of his work, he identified that the manhole chamber had 
dropped.  
Under the Plumbing and drainage section of the policy, cover definitions are provided:
Plumbing and/or drainage: the water pipework, taps, stop taps, water tanks, cold water 
tanks, drainage and waste pipes within your property for which you are legally responsible.
When Mr H told Aviva there was still an issue with his drain. Aviva again sent an engineer, 
who established there was no blockage. The engineer identified that a patch liner should be 
installed to prevent any back flow from the drain. When an engineer returned to carry out 
that work, he identified what he felt was the reason for the manhole dropping. He felt it was 
due to an issue with subsidence. 
From what Ive seen, although the cover definitions mention drainage pipes, there is no 
reference to manholes in the list above.
The General Exclusions section of the terms and conditions also note that a policyholder is 
still responsible for the day-to-day maintenance of the items covered by their policy. 
Mr H considered that as the drain ran through the manhole, the manhole was an integral part 
of the drain. So he felt that Aviva had been wrong to deny his claim for a new manhole 
cover. He said that if Aviva had wanted to exclude manholes from drain cover it couldve 
done so.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs argument here. I dont agree that a manhole is a drain. And I 
dont agree that Aviva shouldve been required to specifically exclude manholes from its 
Plumbing and Drainage cover in order to be able to fairly decline a claim for a manhole. I 
say this because Im satisfied that the policy clearly states what is covers. There is no 
mention of manholes in the cover definitions. From what Ive seen, Aviva acted fairly when 
its engineer resolved the issue that cover was provided for  that is, the blockage. And it also 
acted fairly when it declined Mr Hs request to cover a claim for a manhole, which wasnt 
covered under the policy.   
Mr H has told this service that he has been able to resolve the issues through his buildings 
insurer. Im very pleased to hear that. But hes asked Aviva to cover the costs he feels hes 
incurred because it declined to cover his claim.
As Ive found no evidence that Aviva did anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask them to cover Mr Hs building insurance claim costs. Therefore I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman