DRN-1505144
 
The complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mr Gs credit card account when he applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Lloyds didn't respond to the 
adjudicator's recommendation, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint because Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr G but I 
dont think it was suitable for him. I say this because Mr G has told me he was entitled to 
employer sick pay worth between three and six months of his salary, and he says he 
had savings at a similar level. So, I think Mr G could have managed without the PPI for long 
enough not to really need it.
I dont think Mr G would have bought the policy if Lloyds had made it clear it wasnt suitable. 
So, I think Mr G has lost out because of what the business did wrong.   
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Lloyds should find out how much Mr G would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on                
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
 Lloyds should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed when he closed           
 his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PP.
 If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what      
 he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  B. Lloyds should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have 
owed when he closed his account - from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Lloyds works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr G paid more than enough to clear his balance, Lloyds should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr G wouldve owed Lloyds something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. Lloyds should tell Mr G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation to 
Mr G in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman