DRN-3331078
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) provided him with misleading 
information about an incentive for him to switch his accounts. 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr T says he switched an account to his Nationwide account. At the 
time, Nationwide was offering £125 to its customers who decided to switch their accounts. 
On 10 September 2021, Mr T says that to take advantage of the offer, he decided to switch 
an account. He says he contacted Nationwide on its webchat facility between 
10-11 September 2021 to ask if the £125 would be payable on each switch that he made. Mr 
T says that the representative on the webchat confirmed that the £125 would be payable for 
each switch. And so, Mr T proceeded to switch other accounts to his Nationwide account. 
Mr T says he received £125 for the first switch, but he didnt receive £125 for the additional 
switches he made. Mr T contacted Nationwide to find out why this was, and it was explained 
to him that he wouldnt receive £125 per switch  and the offer was only available for the first 
account switched to Nationwide. 
When Mr T complained to Nationwide about this, Nationwide confirmed that it was part of the 
terms and conditions of the switch incentive that the payment would only be made for the 
first account switched to Nationwide. Nationwide confirmed that it couldnt locate the 
webchat Mr T says he had with a representative. And it said that it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong by not offering Mr T £125 for each account he switched. 
Our Investigator also looked into things for Mr T but they didnt uphold the complaint. The 
Investigator found that Nationwide had acted in line with its terms and conditions when it 
said it wouldnt pay Mr T for each switch he made. Our Investigator also asked Nationwide to 
conduct further searches of the webchats it had between 10-11 September 2022 so he could 
see what Mr T was told about the switch incentive. But unfortunately, the webchat couldnt 
be located. 
Mr T didnt agree with the Investigators outcome. He reiterated that he had a webchat with 
Nationwide who told him that he would receive a £125 for each switch he made  and so it 
should honour the payments for the individual switches.
Because Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
The terms and conditions of the incentive state that the incentive award would only be paid 
once. So, I dont think it was unfair of Nationwide to only pay Mr T for the first switch he 
made to his Nationwide account  and not the others. 
Mr T says the terms and conditions arent clear on this point, but I dont think I agree with 
this. The incentive terms and conditions state:
This offer is only valid on the first sole current account and first joint current account you 
switch to us, even if we withdraw this offer and launch it again in the future.
I have also looked at the information available on Nationwides website from when Mr T 
applied for the switch in September 2021. Under the heading How to get our switch offer it 
states:
This offer will be paid once per account. You need to switch from another bank or building 
society. And it's only available for a limited time. Make sure you read the full terms and 
conditions of this offer.
Based on this, I dont think Nationwide have been unfair or unreasonable in declining to pay 
Mr T for each individual switch. And, in my view, the information available on the website at 
the time was clear that the offer would only be paid once per account.
Mr T says that he only carried out more than one switch because he says he was told by a 
representative of Nationwide in a webchat that he would get paid the incentive for each 
switch he made. Our service has asked Nationwide to conduct a search of its systems in an 
attempt to find the webchat Mr T says he had with it. Unfortunately, the webchat Mr T refers 
to cant be located by Nationwide  nor is Mr T able to provide a copy of the webchat. So, I 
cant be certain of what Mr T was told about the switches.
I can understand why Mr T is frustrated on this point, because I know he feels strongly about 
what he was told in the webchat. But even if I were to find that the information he was given 
was misleading, I still wouldnt ask Nationwide to honour the additional incentive Mr T thinks 
he is due. This is because Nationwide werent wrong not to pay the incentive for the further 
switches Mr T made  this was clear on the website and in the terms and conditions of the 
offer.
In addition to what Ive said above, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr T has lost out 
financially as a result of only being paid once for the switch  its just that he didnt get as 
much in incentive payments as he hoped he would. 
It follows that I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more for Mr T. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman