DRN-3405152
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) allowed two 
payments out of her account that put her in an unarranged overdraft. She says the merchant 
was not supposed to take those payments.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In March 2021, Miss L returned a hire car to a well-known car hire company. The merchant 
took two payments from her Clydesdale current account, totalling about £850. This put her 
account into an unarranged overdraft.
Miss L reported the payments to Clydesdale as unauthorised, explaining that one involved a 
clerical error, and the other shed wanted to pay by credit card instead. Clydesdale checked 
things with their Fraud Team and explained the payments werent considered unauthorised 
or fraudulent as Miss L had authorised the merchant to take payments from her account, it 
was just she disputed what theyd taken. They advised Miss L to dispute things directly with 
the merchant, and then repeatedly offered to raise a dispute from their end if Miss L 
contacted their Disputes Team.
According to Clydesdales records, Miss L never contacted the Disputes Team, whereas 
Miss L says she spoke to them and they wouldnt help her.
Miss L felt Clydesdale were wrong to let her account go into an unarranged overdraft, and 
wanted them to remove the related markers from her credit file.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the payments werent fraudulent, but were a disagreement between Miss L 
and the merchant, which Clydesdale werent responsible for. They found Clydesdale had 
repeatedly advised Miss L to raise a dispute via their Disputes Team, but it looked like she 
had not done so. They explained that as the payments were pre-authorised, Clydesdale 
couldnt stop them, per the terms and conditions of her account.
Miss L didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain first that, broadly speaking, Clydesdale are only required to refund 
unauthorised payments. For example, this could be where a fraudster stole Miss Ls details 
without her permission and took money. But thats not what happened here  no one stole 
Miss Ls details or committed fraud, and these payments are not what would be considered 
unauthorised. When Miss L hired the car, she would have given the merchant her details 
and pre-authorised them to take payments from her account.
Of course, I understand Miss L strongly disagrees with the amounts the merchant took, as 
she said theyd charged her for daft things and made clerical errors. But Im afraid thats 
not Clydesdales fault or responsibility  its a dispute between Miss L and the merchant.
Because Miss L had previously given this merchant her details and pre-authorised them to 
take money from her account, Clydesdale were not wrong to let the payments go through. 
I understand Miss Ls concern about an overdraft being created when shed not previously 
agreed to one. But that can and does happen when more money is spent than is in the 
account  these are known as unarranged overdrafts and are allowed. Clydesdale were not 
obligated to block these payments just because they would create an overdraft. Its also set 
out in Miss Ls terms and conditions that her account might go into an unarranged overdraft 
in situations like this.
So I dont find that Clydesdale did anything wrong in allowing these payments through or 
creating the overdraft. And they are required to report the overdraft on Miss Ls credit file.
After the payments had gone through, Clydesdale could only reasonably help by raising an 
informal dispute on Miss Ls behalf through the chargeback scheme. I should explain that 
chargebacks are part of a voluntary scheme, and are just one possible way of getting ones 
money back from a merchant. Banks are not obliged to put chargeback disputes through, 
and customers generally need to try to resolve things with the merchant first. Customers also 
generally need to speak to the banks Disputes Team and give over all needed information in 
order to get the chargeback going.
Ive gone through the records of Clydesdales contact with Miss L, including their letters, the 
transcripts of her online chats, and recordings of her phone calls. Aside from one call where 
they forgot to mention it, I can see that Clydesdale clearly and repeatedly explained that they 
could raise a dispute for Miss L, but that she would need to speak to their Disputes Team. 
They repeatedly gave her the Disputes Teams details, and even offered to arrange a time 
for them to call her. But as far as I can see, Miss L never spoke to that team.
I understand that Miss L recalls speaking to the Disputes Team. But shes not been able to 
provide any evidence of this, and from the substantial evidence I have from Clydesdale it 
really looks like she never spoke to them. From the way Miss L described her conversation, 
it sounds like she may have got mixed up with a call that went to the Fraud Team, where 
they explained the payments werent fraudulent so they couldnt help. Ive not found any 
record of Miss L ever speaking to the Disputes Team  for example, during her last call, the 
adviser offered to put her through to them directly but Miss L said she was too busy and told 
the adviser to just forget it.As far as I can see, Clydesdale repeatedly gave Miss L the correct advice that she needed 
to speak to the Disputes Team, and the reason a dispute didnt get set up was because 
Miss L never contacted that team. Clydesdale only forgot to mention the disputes process on 
one phone call, for which they refunded over £40 of interest and offered a further £20 
compensation, which I think is fair for that oversight. Clydesdale should pay Miss L the £20 if 
theyve not done so already. Its also worth keeping in mind that even if a chargeback had 
been submitted, theres no guarantee it would have actually worked  theres every chance 
that the car hire company would have successfully defended itself instead.
Im afraid that under the rules of the chargeback scheme, its now much too late to raise a 
dispute through Clydesdale, so its not possible for Clydesdale to help Miss L with this any 
further. If Miss L would like the payments to be refunded, shell need to dispute things with 
the car hire company directly.
Lastly, Miss L said in her correspondence that Clydesdale had harassed her, so Ive thought 
carefully about this. Its worth bearing in mind that Clydesdale were required to keep Miss L 
informed about the overdraft and what options she had to deal with it. And Ive not seen 
anything in Clydesdales contact with Miss L that seems excessive or unreasonable. For 
example, they said they were worried that Miss L may be having financial troubles, offered to 
help, let her know about the potential interest and fees, and gave her the details for free debt 
help charities. So Ive not found that Clydesdale acted inappropriately there.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman