DRN-1954246
The complaint
Mr O says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr O took out a PPI policy in 2003. The PPI helped protect his credit card payments in the 
event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr O didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide needed to make it clear to Mr O that he had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get his agreement before adding it. He says it didnt do those things. But Ive seen a copy of 
Mr Os signed credit card application form and it shows a tick to indicate he wanted PPI. The 
box to tick to decline PPI was left blank. 
Overall, I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr O that he had a choice about taking out PPI 
and that he chose to take it. I can understand if he doesnt recall that now after so many 
years.
Ive gone on to consider if there are any other reasons why I might uphold Mr Os complaint, 
but I dont think there are. Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O. But it still ought to 
have provided Mr O with clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that he 
could decide for himself if it was suitable. 
I cant say for sure whether Nationwide did that. But, from what I know of Mr Os 
circumstances, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking it. 
I say that because:
It seems Mr O would have been eligible for the cover. And I dont believe hed have 
decided against the PPI because of its main exclusions and restrictions. 
Mr O says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer, and that he could 
have relied on substantial savings if he wasnt working. But the PPI would have paid 
out on top of all that, and for up to 12 months per claim. The PPI could have allowed 
him to retain his savings or use them to cover his other living costs if he was off work. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mr O couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible in that 
Mr O could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided it was no 
longer right for him.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr O. But 
Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O. Thats because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr O, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwides offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Nationwide should also 
pay back to Mr O any extra interest he paid because of that.
Nationwide should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr O the difference 
between what Mr O owes and what hed have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr O 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr O can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman