DRN-4491919
The complaint
Mrs B complains 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money (247 Money) supplied her 
with a car that she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again. 
In November 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said the following:
Mrs B has raised a number of complaint points. I would like to reassure her that Ive read 
and considered them but in this decision I wont address them all. No discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, I will focus on the issues I consider to be key to reach a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs B acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. 247 Money was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mrs B acquired a car that was around 11 years old and had travelled over 
68,900 miles. As this was a used car with considerable mileage and age, its reasonable to 
expect parts may already have suffered substantial wear and tear when compared to a new 
car or one that is less travelled.
Mrs B reported immediately upon collecting the car from the dealership, the engine 
management light was coming on. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties including the job cards and 
comments from the third party garages. Having done so, I find there was a fault with the 
exhaust camshaft and camshaft sensor. Given the engine management light came on the 
same day as Mrs B collected the car, its evident the fault was present at supply. I dont 
believe a reasonable person would expect to experience such a fault immediately upon 
acquiring it. Therefore, I dont agree the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mrs B meaning there was a breach of contract. 
The CRA says a consumer has 30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory quality (short 
term right to reject. I know this is a particular point Mrs B feels very strongly about. 
Ive reviewed an email she sent to the dealership on the day she acquired the car. She says:
Regardless of whether the engine management light was on that morning, this fault was 
present when I collected the car. Please confirm if you are happy for me to take it to a local 
garage for investigation and repair (at your expense) or if you would like to collect it to carry 
out the investigation and repairs yourself? Bar this fault, I am happy with the vehicle and am 
not inclined to reject it at this point.
Based on this email, its clear Mrs B didnt ask to reject the car but instead she wished for it 
to be repaired. From my understanding the dealership told her to take it to a local garage for 
repair. It was taken to a manufacturer approved garage however its unclear what repairs (if 
any) were carried out. So Mrs B took it to another garage who I will refer to as T, they 
replaced the camshaft sensors. However despite the same, Mrs B reported the engine 
management lights were still coming on. So she got back in contact with the dealership.
According to Mrs B around this time (August 2022), she requested to reject the car to the 
dealership during a call. Unfortunately I dont have this call recording but I have seen emails 
between Mrs B and the dealership around that time. In the emails, she makes it clear if the 
fault isnt fixed she wants to reject the car. In one email, Mrs B sets out her proposed 
solutions as follows:
1. Authorise and pay for the full repairs required to make this vehicle road worthy.  The car 
is booked in for 12th September.
2. Collect the car and carry out the repairs themselves and supply me with a courtesy car 
while this is being done.
3. I reject the car for a full refund plus costs and compensation.
Based on these emails, I dont find Mrs B explicitly said she wanted to reject the car as she 
was open to accept repairs to fix the fault. On balance, I believe its most likely she said the 
same during the call with the dealership. In light of the same, I cant say the dealership did 
anything wrong by saying they would arrange to repair the car. After all, that was one of the 
options she put to them. I cant agree that she was forced to accept the repairs as she 
alleges.
I can see the dealership carried out repairs in September 2022  they replaced the exhaust 
camshaft and camshaft sensor. From my understanding, Mrs B was provided with a courtesy 
car during this time and the repairs were carried out at no cost to her which is in line of what 
I would expect to happen. I note Mrs Bs comments about the time it took for these repairs to 
be carried out but I dont find the time was excessive. 
Following the repair, Mrs B said the engine management lights were no longer coming on 
but she was still having issues with the car, such as it was losing power when driving uphill. 
Unhappy that the repairs, she asked the dealership to reject the car in October 2022. I 
consider this to be the first time where Mrs B explicitly said she wanted rejection. 
Mrs B returned to T for them to look at the car in October 2022. In summary they said the 
following:
-Fault code found  camshaft sensor. They previously replaced the camshaft sensors 
but the fault code wasnt clearing;
-Camshaft previously had work e.g. camshaft wheels removed, new bolts fitted. The 
old cambelt is still on the car;-Road test shows the car has a distinct lack of power under load when driven uphill 
and on flat road;
-When in third gear, the power drops off and vehicle slows down which is dangerous;
-Revs stay high between gear changes.
Mrs B also took it to another local garage for further diagnosis in November 2022, who I will 
refer to as Q. In summary, they said:
-The camshaft belt hadnt been replaced, it was worn. It wouldve been reasonable for 
the dealership to have replaced this prior to Mrs B acquiring it. The manufacturer 
recommends it should be replaced every 72 months or 100,000 miles;
-Due to the above, the repair by the dealership in September 2022 was inadequate or 
poorly advised;
-There was an oil leak  from the front crankshaft oil seal which is leaking to the 
exhaust causing a smell inside the car. It is also contaminating the cam belt causing 
premature failure;
-During the road test, there was a significant noise from the nearside rear which 
appears to be a wheel bearing or possibly an out of shape tyre;
-When driving on a light throttle, there is a jerking feeling from the engine but further 
investigation would be needed.
Following the findings of T and Q, Mrs B complained to 247 Money. Given what had 
happened up to that point, they said they would arrange for an independent inspection to be 
carried out. I consider that was a fair course of action to determine whether there remained 
faults with the car.
The independent inspection was carried out in November 2022, I note by this point the car 
had travelled around 73,000 miles, meaning Mrs B had covered over 4,000 miles since it 
had been in her possession. Having read the report, in summary it said: 
-They were aware repairs had been carried out but not aware what these were. If any 
repairs have been carried out, then it had been to a satisfactory standard;
-There was a slight leak from the underside of the engine suspected to be coming 
from the main crankshaft oil seal but that didnt detract from the car being driven;
-No fault codes found;
-A road test of 11 miles found no performance issues  it performed with enough 
torque and performance to climb the steep hill;
-Overall, the car was in satisfactory condition and there didnt appear to be any 
abnormal performance issues, noises or smoke. 
I note Mrs Bs comments about the independent inspection and how she disputes their 
findings. Given the report says the mechanic wasnt aware of what repairs were done, I can 
understand why she questions whether he can fairly say it was completed to a satisfactory 
quality and Im inclined to agree with her. However I must stress, Im not an expert in car 
mechanics nor is that the function of our service. So I must rely on the evidence provided by 
those with the relevant qualifications, knowledge and expertise.
Its clear there is conflicting information between T, Q and the independent inspection. 
Where evidence is conflicting, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. Based on 
my research, it appears to be good industry practice that if the exhaust camshaft is replaced 
and the cambelt is worn, that should be replaced also. Given the age of the car and the initial faults, I believe it wouldve been reasonable for the cambelt to have been replaced when the 
car was repaired by the dealership in September 2022 but that didnt happen.
Garages T and Q comment on the loss of power of the car and the jerking of the engine 
which are common signs of issues with the cambelt as that controls the moving parts of the 
car. While I accept the inspection found no such issue, two other independent parties 
identified it which may mean its an intermittent problem. 
As part of my investigation, I asked Mrs B to provide further evidence of this loss of power 
problem and she provided a video. Having watched it, it appears when driving in 3rd gear the 
power of the car declines and it struggles to maintain speed - poor acceleration. From my 
understanding this is a common symptom of a worn cambelt. On balance, I find its most 
likely the car wasnt repaired to a satisfactory standard as the cambelt wasnt replaced. In 
my opinion that has led to further issues. 
Where a car isnt of satisfactory quality, the dealership has one opportunity to repair and that 
has happened here. Mrs B has made it clear she has lost faith in the car and doesnt want 
any further repairs and I can understand why. I consider the earlier repair has failed and in 
line with the CRA, I find 247 Money should now allow her to reject the car. 
This means the agreement should come to an end with nothing further for Mrs B to pay and 
they should collect the car at no cost to her. They should also refund any deposit paid. 
Although I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, given the number of miles Mrs B has 
covered since acquiring the car its clear she has made use of it. However I accept her 
testimony that she has only used it to commute to work but not for any other leisurely driving 
and travelling as she enjoys to do. As Mrs B has had use of the car, I wont be asking 247 
Money to entirely refund the payments shes paid, its fair she pays for her use. Instead I will 
ask them to refund 5% of the monthly payments paid to reflect the impaired use.
Mrs B has provided reports from garages T & Q which has determined faults were present, if 
she paid for these reports this should be refunded by 247 Money (upon receipt of evidence) 
as she incurred them as a result of having a faulty car. I wont be asking them to refund the 
cost of the tyre as this is a serviceable part of the car and shes covered considerable 
mileage. 
Lastly, given the likely impact of this situation on Mrs B including multiple trips to the garage 
for repair and the extent of her communication with 247 Money, I find 247 Money should pay 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Summary
Taking everything into account, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality due to the fault 
with the exhaust camshaft and camshaft sensor. Although repairs were carried out, I dont 
find these were to a satisfactory standard which has led to acceleration issues with the car. 
To resolve the complaint, 247 Money should allow Mrs B to reject the car and put things right 
as outlined above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both 247 Money and Mrs B accepted the findings. Although she maintains had she been 
allowed to reject the car sooner, she wouldnt have travelled the amount of miles that she 
had. 
I thank both parties for their response. While I appreciate Mrs Bs comments, I dont find this 
materially changes the outcome. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
 
To put things right, 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs B to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
- Refund the deposit paid*;
- Refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid to reflect impaired use*;
- Reimburse Mrs B for the cost of the garage reports (upon evidence provided)*;
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mrs Bs credit file;
- Pay £300 compensation to Mrs B for the trouble and upset caused.
* 247 Money should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds calculated 
from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
**If 247 Money considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman