DRN-3964809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs X have complained about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds in 
settlement of their business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs X run a guesthouse. 
They made a claim to Lloyds in March 2020 after the business was affected by Covid-19 
lockdown restrictions. 
Lloyds accepted the claim in April 2021 following the Supreme Court judgment in a test case 
brought by the Financial Conduct Authority (the test case). In May 2021 Lloyds made a 
settlement of £57,500 which Mr and Mrs X accepted as an interim payment.
Mr and Mrs X didnt accept the way the settlement had been calculated. They thought based 
on the wording of the policy they were entitled to a further £75,000 being 25% of the sum 
insured of £300,000 under Sub-section 2 of the Business Interruption part of the policy.
Lloyds disagreed. It said this section didnt apply as it covered business interruption 
resulting from damage to property used at the premises for the purpose of the business and 
Mr and Mrs Xs claim didnt arise from damage to property.
Mr and Mrs X brought their complaint to this service. They were also unhappy with the way 
their claim had been handled, in particular, the delays on the part of Lloyds. They said they 
had had to take out a loan of £35,000 in August 2020 through the governments bounce 
back loan scheme (a BBL) because of the delay in settling the claim.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. An extract from my 
provisional findings is set out below:
The Business Interruption part of Mr and Mrs Xs policy isnt the easiest for a layman to 
understand and I note that some people in Lloyds found it confusing as well. The core cover 
(described in the policy as Automatic Cover in Section A Sub-section 2 is for:
Loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the business carried on by you at 
the premises following damage to property used by you at the premises for the purposes 
of the business.
Words in bold are defined in the policy but for the purpose of the above clause the meaning 
is clear enough without me setting out the various definitions.
The policy schedule refers to Section A Automatic Cover Sub-section 2 Business 
Interruption as having cover of £300,000 for Gross Profit/Loss of Net Takings (12 month 
indemnity period).
As there is no evidence of damage to property at the premises, I agree that this automatic 
cover doesnt apply.
Further on in this section there are set out the four different methods of settling a claim. They 
are gross profit, additional cost of working, rent receivable and rent payable.
Then there are listed Additional cover  automatically included. One of these is loss 
following:
any notifiable disease within a radius of 25 miles of the premises.
It's not in dispute that there was an occurrence of Covid-19, being a notifiable disease within 
the terms of the policy, within a 25 mile radius of Mr and Mrs Xs premises, and that this 
occurrence was a contributing cause to the Governments restrictions which caused Mr and 
Mrs Xs loss.
The maximum indemnity period for business interruption loss caused by a notifiable disease 
is three months.
There are no separate provisions for the claim settlement of the additional covers. So it 
seems to me reasonable to assume that claims will be settled on the same basis as the 
Automatic Cover. The Schedule refers to settlement on the basis of Gross Profit. So I have 
looked at the wording in the policy regarding that. It says:
Claims  basis of Settlement A  Gross Profit
The insurance by this item is limited to loss of gross profit not exceeding the limit of 
liability due to:
a) reduction in turnover; and
b) increase in cost of working
and the amount payable will be 
1. For reduction in turnover, the sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to 
the amount by which the turnover during the indemnity period will following the 
damage fall short of the standard turnover
2. For increase in cost of working, the additional expenditure necessarily and 
reasonably incurred for the sole purpose of avoiding or diminishing the reduction in 
turnover which but for that expenditure would have taken place during the 
indemnity period following the damage but not exceeding the total of:
a) The sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to the amount of 
reduction avoided; plus
b) 25% of the sum insured by this item (but not more than £250,000)
less any sum saved during the indemnity period for the charges and expenses of 
the business payable out of gross profit as may cease or be reduced following 
the damage.
The term Gross Profit is defined as:The amount of the turnover (net of discounts allowed), closing stock and work in progress 
less the amount of the opening stock, work in progress and specified working expenses.
Based on information provided by Mr and Mrs X, Lloyds calculated that the loss of gross 
profit due to reduction in turnover was £50,161. The parties seem to have been in 
agreement that the loss of gross profit was about £55,000. Mr and Mrs X havent supplied 
any evidence that they incurred an increase in the cost of working to avoid or diminish a 
reduction in turnover. I think that is to be expected since the guesthouse was closed for the 
indemnity period. 
I think if Mr and Mrs X had incurred an increase in cost of working, the policy wording meant 
that the amount Lloyds would pay in respect of an increase in cost of working would not 
exceed the total of a) and b). It does not mean that Lloyds was obliged to pay the total of a) 
and b) in any event. 
The term damage is defined in the policy as:
Loss or destruction of or damage to the property insured as stated in the schedule. 
I agree with Lloyds that there is no evidence of damage to the property insured. But even if 
there had been damage to property insured, I dont think Mr and Mrs X would have been 
automatically entitled to an additional £75,000 (being 25% of the sum insured) for the reason 
explained above, namely that the sum of a) and b) is only relevant for calculating the limit of 
Lloyds liability for any increase in cost of working incurred by Mr and Mrs X. 
Lloyds said that it settled the claim for £57,500 following amicable discussions. I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs Xs reduction in turnover and increase in cost of working 
for the three-month indemnity period exceeded £57,500. So, Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
treated Mr and Mrs X unfairly in the way it calculated the settlement amount. 
Ive noted Lloyds point that it felt it needed to wait until the outcome of the test case but I am 
not persuaded by it. This delay in dealing with business interruption insurance claims was 
permitted under the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority to insurers at the 
time but not required by law. Additionally, the guidance did not suggest that, for customers 
whose claims were found to have been incorrectly declined, interest should not be awarded. 
I recognise that there was uncertainty about the interpretation of the wording in certain 
policies, including ones like Mr and Mrs Xs, which required the loss to have been caused by 
an outbreak of Covid-19 within a specified distance of the premises. However, I think it was 
always open for Lloyds to have accepted the claim sooner and ultimately the Supreme 
Court found that Lloyds initial decision not to provide cover was incorrect. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Lloyds has had the benefit of the money it should 
have paid Mr and Mrs X. The rules governing this service allow me to make, amongst other 
things, a money and interest award for what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint 
is determined in favour of the complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think 
is fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs X back in the position it would have been in if Lloyds 
had accepted the claim originally. I acknowledge that my decision might be different from 
one which a court might make. But in this case I think it is fair and reasonable to do so.
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer should wait for 
losses to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable for an 
insurer to wait for the end of an indemnity period before making any settlement. Generally 
speaking, I would expect regular monthly payments to be made. It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess a claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this for a claim of this nature would be around 
two months from when Mr and Mrs X first made their claim in March 2020 in order to wait for 
losses to accrue and to give Lloyds a reasonable amount of time to assess the claim. I dont 
consider the bringing of the test case alters this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently think it is fair and reasonable that Lloyds should add interest to the first months 
loss from two months after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months 
after the claim was made and the third months loss from four months after the claim was 
made in each case until 11 May 2021 being the date of settlement but adjusted as 
mentioned below. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
Because of the delay in settling the claim Mr and Mrs X took out the BBL of £35,000 on 7 
August 2020. I understand that no interest would have been payable on this for the first year 
of the loan. As Mr and Mrs X had taken out this loan to cover part of the settlement that 
Lloyds should have made, they werent without that amount of the settlement from that point 
in time. So, I think the amount on which interest is calculated for the period from 7 August 
2020 to 11 May 2021 should be reduced to £22,500 (being the settlement amount less the 
BBL).
Mr and Mrs X had no comment on my provisional decision. Lloyds didnt agree that it should 
pay interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the point made by Lloyds that it shouldnt be required to pay interest 
because it was entitled to wait for the judgment of the Supreme Court in the test case but for 
the reasons explained in my provisional decision I am not persuaded by this argument. 
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties that insurers faced with claims of this nature, that doesnt 
alter the fact that Mr and Mrs X had a valid claim which should not have been declined 
initially.
Because an incorrect decision was made on the claim, Mr and Mrs X were left without funds 
that they should otherwise have had. As they have been without this money, I believe it is 
fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to compensate them for this financial loss.
Putting things right
Society of Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs X interest on the first months loss from two 
months after the claim was made, interest on the second months loss from three months 
after the claim was made and interest on the third months loss from four months after the 
claim was made, in each case until 11 May 2021 being the date of settlement but adjusted 
as mentioned below. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
As Mr and Mrs X took out the interest-free BBL of £35,000 on 7 August 2020 to cover part of 
the settlement that Lloyds should have made, they werent without that amount of the 
settlement from that point in time. So, the amount on which interest is calculated for the 
period from 7 August 2020 to 11 May 2021 should be reduced to £22,500 (being the 
settlement amount less the BBL).My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to put 
things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs X to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman