DRN-1541118
Complaint 
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to him when he took out his credit card in 1996.
Background
This policy covered Mr J if he lost his job or couldn't work through accident or sickness. It 
cost £0.71 per £100 outstanding on Mr Js credit card and would have paid 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mr J disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below.
This sale happened many years ago in 1996 and consequently Lloyds is unable to provide 
all the evidence from the time of the sale. There are also some things Mr J cant remember. 
This is understandable as over twenty years has passed. I have also taken into account that 
businesses aren't required to keep all its records indefinitely. But where the evidence is 
unavailable or inconsistent, I will make my decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, 
what is most likely to have happened considering what we do know about how this business 
sold PPI at that time.
The first thing Ive thought carefully about is whether Mr J had a choice about buying the 
PPI. He has told us he did not give his consent to the policy when he took out his credit card. 
He is adamant that he wouldn't have taken out PPI if he had been told about it. 
Lloyds is unable to provide the actual credit card application Mr J completed in 1996. But it 
has provided a credit card application form from the time. I think this likely represented the 
type of form Mr J had to complete. On it there is a section about the PPI. Mr J would have 
had to tick the box to accept the cover  he could have left it blank if he didn't want it, and he 
would have had to sign and date the application form. All in all, I think on balance it's likely 
Mr J read the form before he signed it and would have understood he was asking for PPI.
Ive also thought about what we know about how Lloyds conducted these types of sales at 
that time. Based on what we know, I think the representative would more likely have given 
Mr J a choice about buying the PPI or leaving it. I also think the PPI  would have appeared 
on Mr Js credit card statements. So, if he didn't want the policy or wasn't aware he had it, he 
could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence he did so.Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr J agreed to take 
out the PPI at the time knowing he could refuse it if he didn't want it even, if its 
understandable if he cant remember that now after such a long time. 
Lloyds isn't clear about how the policy was taken out, but it says it will treat this sale as if it 
were an advised sale in a meeting. I think thats fair as Mr J says it was at a meeting when 
he was called into the branch to be offered a better deal on his credit card. As an advised 
sale, this put more responsibility on Lloyds for how it sold the policy and it meant that Lloyds 
had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for Mr Js needs. It also had to 
give him clear enough information so that he could decide for himself whether to take out the 
PPI.
In order to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr J I have looked at Mr Js circumstances as well 
as the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr J was eligible for the policy and as he was in employment and didn't have any pre-
existing medical conditions, I dont think he would have been affected by any of the main 
terms and conditions which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr J has told us he would have been entitled to at least six months sick pay from his 
employer, but he didn't have any savings or other means with which to pay his credit card if 
things went wrong. This policy would have covered him in addition to the sick pay he was 
entitled to and for longer than his sick pay would have lasted. So, I still think the policy was 
useful if Mr J was unable to work or lost his job.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer, I still think Mr J would have bought the cover. I say this 
for much the same reasons as Ive explained above as to why I think the policy was suitable. 
I still think the PPI could have been useful to him if he lost his job or couldn't work. And it 
looks as though he chose to buy the insurance  so it looks like he wanted that type of cover 
at the time. I also havent seen anything to suggest the premiums were unaffordable. With 
that in mind, I dont think Mr J would have acted differently even if Lloyds had given him 
more or better information about the policy.
Ive also thought about what Mr J has said about contacting all his credit card providers 
about PPI. He says most of the cards he held did not have PPI and this showed he never 
knowingly added PPI to financial products. He says this established a pattern of him refusing 
PPI. Ive thought about what he has said but each case is decided on its own merits and in 
this case, I hope I have explained the reasons why Im not upholding his complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr J, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I havent 
upheld his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. I dont 
require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any further action in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman