DRN-3546533
The complaint
Mr H complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) charged an excess under his home 
insurance policy, wont refund it and wont delete the claim from his insurance record.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only summarise the 
circumstances leading to this complaint being referred to this service.
- Mr H made a claim following damage caused by an escape of water in February 
2018.
- The source of the escape of water was a problem with a communal pipe in the 
building which a third party was responsible for.
- Mr H advised Lloyds that he did not want the claim settled until recovery had been 
made from the third party insurers and his excess could be refunded at the same 
time as the settlement was made. Mr H also queried why the cost of repairing the 
leak was not covered under his policy.
- Lloyds began investigations into the likelihood of being able to recover their costs 
from the third party insurer.
- Mr H agreed to settlement of the claim less excess but still wanted Lloyds to pursue 
recovery of their outlay and his excess from the third party insurer.
- The third party insurer declined to reimburse Lloyds for its outlay and the Lloyds 
decided not to pursue it through legal channels.
- Mr H returned to Lloyds when a leak re-occurred in his property. Lloyds told him the 
new leak was the responsibility of his new insurer.
- Mr H contacted this service as he was unhappy that his excess wasnt being 
refunded and his insurance record showed a claim.
- Lloyds reconsidered Mr Hs complaint and issued its final answer in November 2021. 
It agreed with the previous decision made but awarded a further £150 for delays in 
progressing Mr Hs claim, having previously awarded £100.
- Unhappy with that decision, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
- Our investigator considered the case and concluded Lloyds had dealt with Mr Hs 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She said Lloyds didnt have 
to do anything further.
- Mr H was unhappy with that conclusion and asked that an ombudsman decide his 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators opinion for broadly the same reasons. 
Theres a lot of information on file which deals with the cause of the leak and who is liable for 
that. Whilst I have read and noted this information, its not directly relevant to this complaint. 
Thats because the issue I have to decide whether Lloyds did anything wrong by charging 
Mr H the excess, not refunding it to him when he asked it to do so and by recording his claim 
on the insurance database. Ill deal with each aspect separately.
Lloyds charged an excess of £500
Mr Hs policy schedule shows there to be a mandatory excess for an escape of water claim 
of £250. The schedule also shows a voluntary excess of £250 is payable for all buildings 
claims other than Subsidence, Heave and Landslip. Therefore Lloyds was correct in 
calculating the excess to be £500.
 
Excess is a defined term in Mr Hs policy which says: 
The excess is the amount you must pay towards any claim; this will include both 
compulsory and voluntary excesses in which case the insurer will add them 
together.
The policy says in Section A: Buildings Cover:
Your insurer will cover loss or damage to the buildings as a result of an insured 
cause or cover provided under any paragraphs in this section. The insurer will 
deduct the excess shown on the Policy Schedule.
The damage to Mr Hs property was caused by an insured event (an escape of water) and 
Lloyds covered the losses and Mr H had to pay an excess of £500. Im satisfied thats in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and I find Lloyds did nothing wrong in charging the 
excess.
Lloyds failed to recover Mr Hs excess from the third party insurer
Lloyds is free to make its own decision as to whether it should seek to recover its outlay in 
settling a claim from a third party. Its not the role of this service to interfere with a business 
working practices in this regard.
I understand Mr H feels very strongly that as another party caused the leak, he shouldnt be 
out of pocket. I understand and sympathise with that view. But Lloyds doesnt have to seek 
recovery of its outlay if it doesnt feel theres a reasonable prospect of success. Thats the 
conclusion it came to here. And it isnt obliged to include a policyholders excess in that 
recovery. It can attempt to do so if it chooses. In this case it investigated the possibility of a 
recovery, found that not to be cost effective and closed the case.
Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably in following this course of action.
Lloyds is showing a claim on Mr Hs insurance record Once a claim has been notified to an insurer, the claim will be updated to the insurance 
database. Thats industry wide practice. It doesnt matter whether the claim was the 
policyholders fault or not  what is recorded is the fact that a claim has been started and 
what the outcome of that claim was. Im satisfied Mr H did start and benefit from a claim and 
Lloyds has done nothing wrong in recording the claim and declining to remove it.
In summary, Mr H made a claim on his policy and his insurers settled the claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of his policy. In the circumstances of this case I find that Lloyds 
has acted reasonably in charging the excess, not refunding it, and not removing the claim 
from the insurance database.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman