DRN-3945783
The complaint
Mr L complains that Grove & Dean Ltd (G&D) sold him a policy that wasnt suited to his 
needs and didnt provide a full refund when he cancelled his policy during the cooling off 
period. 
 
What happened
Mr L took out a car insurance policy with G&D via a comparison website. G & D were acting 
as the broker. e purchased it at the beginning of February 2022 with a start date of 3 March 
2022. 
When he received the policy documents, Mr L says he realised that many of the details he 
had entered into the comparison website hadnt correctly transferred over to G&D and the 
policy contained incorrect information. He was concerned that he wasnt adequately 
covered. 
In particular, Mr L says that he wasnt aware that he would have no cover for driving other 
cars, and he wasnt aware it was a market value policy, and that if he had been made aware, 
he wouldnt have purchased it.  
Mr L then contacted G&D and tried make some amendments to the policy to suit his needs, 
and some amendments were made, but some couldnt be made. And so, he then cancelled 
his policy.
G&D charged Mr L £55 for cancelling the policy in line with their terms and conditions. They 
did reduce this fee to £30 for Mr L as a gesture of goodwill, but Mr L wanted the whole fee 
refunded and so he complained. 
  
A final response was issued on 6 April 2022. G&D said they were satisfied that all the 
amendments were made, and that Mr L was made aware of the policy limitations during the 
purchase process. They also said they were entitled to deduct the cancellation fee. 
Mr L was unhappy with G&Ds response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ls complaint but he thought G&D had acted 
fairly and within the terms of the policy.  
Mr L disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why.
I have to consider here is whether this policy has been mis sold to Mr L. In other words, was 
the policy that was sold to Mr L suitable his needs, giving him the cover that he wanted. Its 
acceptable for the policy to have exclusions and restrictions on the cover, provided that Mr L 
was made aware of those exclusions and was not in any way misled about the cover he was 
purchasing either directly, or because important information about that cover was not made 
clear to him. 
I can see that Mr L entered his details through a price comparison website, and that he was 
then redirected to G & D to complete the purchase. At the point of purchase, following 
receiving the quote, Mr L was given a number of documents to view before making payment, 
and he was asked to click a box to confirm that he agreed to the terms before proceeding to 
payment. 
The agreement says:
I have reviewed my [Quote details] and understood the [Assumptions] [Business Terms], 
[Policy Summary], [Policy Booklet] and I am satisfied that to the best of my knowledge the 
information I have provided is correct. I understand any subsequent alteration I make to my 
policy will be subject to a service charge and acknowledge it is my responsibility to ensure 
that all drivers hold the correct licence for the insured car. 
There are links embedded in the text to the Quote Details, Assumptions, Business Terms, 
Policy Summary and Policy Booklet, and so Mr L could and should have clicked on each of 
these and read them before agreeing to the terms. 
Mr L tick the box agreeing to the terms and proceeded with the purchase, and so the 
assumption is that he read the documents.  
The market value
In the policy booklet that was linked, at page 6 under Claims Settlement its made it clear 
that this was a market value policy. It says:
If the vehicle is a total loss (for example, stolen and not recovered or damaged beyond 
economical repair), we will pay the market value of the vehicle at the time of the incident. 
I can appreciate that Mr L was asked to enter a value for his car on the comparison website, 
and also that when he received the quote details through, his estimate of value was noted on 
the details, but if having a specified value policy was important to him, I would have 
expected him to check the policy before purchasing, as this is quite an unusual type of 
benefit on a motor policy. 
I think it was clear in the booklet, and Mr L had ticked the box to indicate that he had 
reviewed and understood the policy booklet, and so, Im satisfied that Mr L wasnt misled 
about this policy term, and so the policy wasnt mis sold on this issue. 
Driving other vehicles
Mr L has said that the driving other cars benefit was important to him. It used to be fairly 
standard on motor policies. However, that is no longer the case. 
 
I cant see that the absence of the driving other cars benefit is specifically listed on any of the 
documents sent to Mr L prior to making the purchase. However, there is a warning that it 
might not be at page 8 of the policy booklet where it says:Driving Other Vehicles
If your motor insurance certificate states that you may drive another vehicle, the cover 
provided by Section 3 of this policy will apply when you are driving in the United Kingdom or 
Republic of Ireland any private motor vehicle which is not owned by you or hired by you
However, the motor insurance certificate which specifically says its not included wasnt sent 
until after the purchase. 
So, whilst on reading the policy booklet, there is some indication that driving other cars cover 
is an option which may be on the certificate, its not explicit, and Mr L had no reason before 
purchase to think that it might not be. Arguably Mr L could have made enquiries, but I do 
think that the information should have been clearer before purchase. 
So, Ive then gone on to think about whether Mr L would have purchased the policy if he had 
been properly advised about the lack of cover. 
I have listened to Mr Ls calls with G & D. He made a call shortly after purchasing the policy, 
at G & Ds request, to go through the details of the policy. In that call, the call handler tells Mr 
L that there is no cover for driving other cars under the policy. He expresses surprise at it not 
being included on a  fully comprehensive policy, but when the call handler advises him that 
its quite usual now not to have that included, he replies Its not an issue for us anyway  if 
its there its there. He doesnt ask for the policy to be amended, or for the call handler to 
look for another policy that includes that cover.
And so, whilst I dont think the lack of cover was made sufficiently clear to Mr L prior to the 
sale, I satisfied on the basis of what he said that even if he had known, he would still have 
purchased the policy, and so I dont think there has been a mis sale on this issue. 
The cancellation fee
As I have said above before purchasing the policy, the webpage asked Mr L to confirm that 
he agreed to the terms including the fees for any amendments or cancellation. It goes on to 
details the fees as follows: 
Information about our fees
These fees are those our customers ask about most frequently and are in addition to any 
charge made by the insurer.
Cancellation (within 14 days of purchase)  £55
Cancellation (after cooling off period)     £55
Changing or correcting your details         £50 
So, Im satisfied that Mr L was given sufficient notice that there was a cancellation charge 
before he agreed to the purchase of the policy, and he still went ahead with the purchase 
and I dont think G & D have acted unfairly in charging the fee. 
I note G & D have reduced the fee to £30 as a gesture of goodwill, and I think this is fair.
I appreciate that Mr L thinks that he shouldnt be charged anything because the policy hadnt 
started, but the fees relate to the work undertaken by the broker in setting up the policy, not 
the insurer, and so whether the policy has started or not, that work has been undertaken and 
fees can be charged in accordance with Financial Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
7.2.
 My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Grove & Dean Ltd and so I wont be asking them to 
do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman