DRN-2531364
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint VWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was 
brand-new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
And the relevant legislation also explains that when we consider whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable.
Im not persuaded that this new car has proven to be suitably durable. I say that because 
I think there is evidence diesel is mixing with the oil. That evidence is as follows:
oil analysis provided as a result of the independent inspectors investigations in 
September 2019 explained there was a small amount of fuel present in the sample 
and that wear metal readings were higher than desired;
a further oil analysis commissioned by Mr S for the period September 2020 to 
February 2021 explained that the amount of fuel detected in the oil has doubled 
since the sample seen last September (2020) and wear metals are higher than 
expected - iron and chrome especially. This combination in results may be down to a 
faulty injector. The report shows an increase in wear metals of about 40% in the 
period in which Mr S covered about 2,500 miles.
Mr S has had to take the car back to the dealership on several occasions to have the 
oil drained when the oil warning light illuminated in the car and when it was identified 
that the oil level had risen unacceptably high. In the absence of any other explanation 
this would appear to be because diesel was contaminating the oil.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect frequent oil warning lights on a new car and I 
dont think theyd think the car had proven to be suitably durable if wear metals were at 
undesirable levels. I think theyd consider it likely that engine wear had been accelerated and 
performance impacted and that is especially important here as the car was a performance 
model. I can see that the independent expert would agree as he has explained in his report 
that if there was diesel in the oil the lubricating ability of the oil will be impaired and 
consequential internal engine wear may accrue thus reducing the life expectancy of the 
engine.
Mr S has explained that the car needed a new gearbox in September 2020. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect to have to replace the gearbox in a brand-new car within 
the first 40,000 miles. So that may be another reason to suggest the car hasnt been suitably 
durable. VWFS havent had an opportunity to consider that issue so Ill not consider it any 
further but, regardless of that problem, I am persuaded I have seen sufficient evidence that 
this car was not of satisfactory quality as it hasnt been suitably durable due to the oil 
contamination issues Ive considered above.
Putting things right 
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault on a car thats of 
unsatisfactory quality. I think VWFS have had several opportunities to repair this car, but 
their attempts have failed and, in those circumstances, the relevant legislation supports 
rejection of the car.
So VWFS should allow Mr S to reject the car and theyll need to end his finance agreement 
and collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr S.
I can see that there was some confusion over the amount of the deposit paid by Mr S when 
the agreement was established. Im persuaded that deposit, after the GAP insurance and 
tracker payment is taken into account is £20,801. VWFS have argued that they shouldnt 
have to refund all of that, but I disagree. Its this services usual approach to order a refund 
of the whole deposit when the agreement is a hire purchase agreement. VWFS should add 
8% simple interest to the refund of the deposit as Mr S has been deprived of that money.
The relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of the finance instalments to 
compensate them for the use the consumer has had from the car. As Mr S has completed in 
excess of the mileage limit the agreement was set up for, I think hes had reasonable use of 
the car. Its therefore fair for VWFS to retain all of the finance instalments hes paid towards 
his agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:allow Mr S to reject the car and end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund the deposit of £20,801 and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement*;
*If VWFS thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off and give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if 
requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman