DRN-2237707
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr W and Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold 
them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr W and 
Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr W and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr W and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr W and 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases involving branch sales from 
around the same period Mr W and Mrs W would have been sold their PPI. Using what I 
know generally of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not 
Mr W and Mrs W would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Halifax 
would have gained their consent before adding it to their account.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr W and Mrs W, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr W and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, 
Mr W and Mrs W were both eligible for the cover and although they had existing means 
they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr W and Mrs Ws employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them to claim. And although Mr W and Mrs W both say they had 
a medical condition that started before the PPI was taken out, I dont think it was wrong 
for Halifax to have recommended it. I say this because Mr W and Mrs W applied for the 
policy at the same time as taking a mortgage, and the terms and conditions say that pre-
existing medical conditions would not be excluded if the policy was taken out at the same 
time. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W and Mrs W as 
I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr W and Mrs W would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr W and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So, I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr W and Mrs W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr W and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.But Mr W and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Mr W and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr W and Mrs Ws particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman