DRN-2841389
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc havent accurately updated his credit file and sent 
him statements when his account should have been closed.
What happened
Mr L entered a debt arrangement scheme. He says Bank of Scotland still added interest onto 
his credit card account when they shouldnt have done. He says the arrangement ended in 
October 2020 and his account should have been closed but he noticed on his credit file that 
it was still showing as active and he still received statements.
Mr L says he made several phone calls to Bank of Scotland about this, but he wasnt able to 
speak to the insolvency department as they are closed at the weekend and that they also 
wouldnt speak to him directly. Mr L says they asked for the discharge certificate even 
though it was available to them on the online portal. Mr L made a complaint to Bank of 
Scotland regarding what had happened.
Bank of Scotland upheld his complaint and paid Mr L £100. They said that theyve declined 
the part of Mr Ls complaint regarding the availability of their insolvency team  as its Bank 
of Scotlands decision that they are only available from Monday to Friday and that the 
administration team do not speak directly to customers. But they have upheld Mr Ls 
complaint about his statements and his credit file. Bank of Scotland said that he shouldnt 
have been charged interest and he shouldnt have received statements since they got 
notification of the debt arrangement scheme. Bank of Scotland apologised and said they 
would monitor this for Mr L and ensure his credit file was updated as quickly as possible. 
Mr L complained to Bank of Scotland again as he noticed the account was still showing on 
his credit file and he was still receiving statements. Bank of Scotland upheld the complaint 
and paid Mr L a further £150. They apologised and said that they had deleted the account 
with one credit agency and would arrange another request for the account to be deleted with 
the credit reference agency Mr L used. They explained that he was still receiving statements 
as his account was still being managed by their collections department and the system 
generated the statements, but Bank of Scotland said they would arrange this to stop.
Mr L still continued to get statements and complained to Bank of Scotland again. They 
upheld his complaint and paid him another £150. They explained there had been a delay in 
closing his account due to an issue processing the interest refunds. They said that his credit 
file would be updated to reflect this, but it could take a couple of months to reflect this on his 
credit file. 
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said that the failure for Bank of Scotland 
updating his credit file is holding him back as he is trying to build an extension, but his credit 
file is holding him back from getting money and work.
During the investigation into his complaint, Mr L had checked his credit file and informed our 
investigator that it appeared that his credit file was now in order, but he explained that hed 
seen the account disappear and reappear previously so he said time will tell whether this 
had been resolved. He said he felt that Bank of Scotland should pay him more than the £400 
they had already paid him based on the stress hes suffered and is still suffering because of 
what happened.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He didnt agree with how Bank of Scotland 
treated Mr L but he said the compensation offered had exceeded what our service would 
typically award for scenarios such as Mr L went through. Our investigator concluded that the 
compensation Bank of Scotland paid Mr L was fair and reasonable. Mr L disagreed and 
asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland didnt treat Mr L as they should have done. They have 
apologised for this and paid Mr L compensation. But they didnt resolve the problem until 
months after he initially complained. Im persuaded that this will have had an impact on Mr L 
as he has said this has impacted his ability to work and get money to help build his 
extension.
Im also persuaded based on what Bank of Scotland said in their final letter to Mr L and what 
Mr L has said, that his credit file is now accurate. I know Mr L is cautious regarding this  as 
he says the account had disappeared previously and then reappeared. But I can only look at 
the complaint as things stand now. It would be unfair to rule on something which may or may 
not happen. So Im unable to keep the complaint open in case something may happen in the 
future. So while Im persuaded the credit file is now accurate based on the information from 
all parties, Mr L would be able to bring a further complaint in the future if the account started 
showing on his credit file. But Im confident it wont as Bank of Scotland have confirmed the 
account is now closed. 
So all thats left for me to decide here is if the £400 that Bank of Scotland have paid Mr L is 
fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that it is even if Mr L feels this amount is too low. Our 
investigator explained to Mr L that the compensation Bank of Scotland paid him is typically 
higher than what our service would usually award had Bank of Scotland not upheld any of 
his complaints.
I am persuaded that the events did have an impact on Mr L and that hes suffered stress and 
he still finds the situation stressful. I can understand why he would say this as he had been 
told more than once that the situation was rectified, but it wasnt. It also took several months 
before his credit file was amended and he still received statements when he shouldnt have 
done. 
But Im also persuaded that £400 is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr L suffered as a result of Bank of Scotlands actions. I say this as Bank of Scotland initially 
paid Mr L £100. And when this wasnt resolved they recognised the impact this would have 
on Mr L and increased the compensation by another £150. And again, when the situation still 
hadnt been resolved after the last time, they paid Mr L another £150 and explained that the 
delay was because of issues processing the interest refund. Im satisfied the compensation 
Bank of Scotland have paid is reasonable for the reasons Ive already given. So it follows I 
wont be asking Bank of Scotland to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman