DRN-3208830
The complaint
Mr R had motor insurance with Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). He complains 
that Admiral told him he needed business use cover on his policy when in fact he didnt.
What happened
Mr R says that that when he took out his motor insurance with Admiral, he was advised that 
he needed business use cover for the type of work he was doing. Mr R stayed with Admiral 
for around 10 years, keeping the business use cover at each renewal.
Admiral says it defines commuting and business use as follows 
Commuting use allows you to travel to and from the same place of work each day. This will 
also include going to a different site or office on a different day but not during the same day.
Business use allows you to use your vehicle to travel to more than one site or office during 
the same day. You would need to have this included for regular use, or if you only needed it 
for a few occasions during the policy term. 
For example you travel to your usual place of work and during the same day you need to 
visit another site/office for maybe a meeting or to deliver or pick up something. 
At his 2020 renewal Mr R queried if he still needed business use cover. Admirals agent at 
first told Mr R he only needed this if he travelled to different sites or offices for work on the 
same day. Mr R said hed never done this. The agent checked with the underwriters, who 
said Mr R would only need business use cover if he travelled to different sites on different 
days and commuting use cover if this happened on the same day. Later Admiral contacted 
Mr R again and clarified the correct definitions. Mr R says he hadnt ever needed business 
use cover, and he was mis-sold the policy.
Mr R complained to Admiral. Admiral said it no longer had recordings of the phone calls 
when he originally took out the insurance so couldnt say he was wrongly advised. However 
Admiral accepted that when Mr R queried the business use cover at his most recent 
renewal, he was given conflicting information and it took a while to give him the correct 
advice. Admiral offered Mr R £40 in recognition of this. Mr R wasnt happy with this and so 
Admiral agreed to calculate what his premiums would have been without the business use 
cover and refund him the difference, plus a further goodwill payment as an apology for the 
length of time taken. This was another £100.
Mr R still wasnt happy so he complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint, saying Admiral had responded fairly and reasonably.
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators response so his complaint has been passed to me.
Mr R says that he stayed with Admiral because it offered the most competitive business use 
cover. He says that he might have been able to get cheaper insurance elsewhere without the 
business use. So he wants Admiral to refund all of the premiums he has paid for each year 
where he says he was mis-sold business use cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not now possible to be sure what advice Mr R was given when he first took out the policy 
with Admiral as the call recordings are no longer available. So Ive considered whether 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably once it became aware that there was a problem.
Admiral has shown this service how it calculated the refund of Mr Rs premiums. I cant 
share this with Mr R as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied Admiral has shown it has 
calculated the difference in premiums correctly. We have no way of knowing now whether or 
not Mr R could have got cheaper insurance elsewhere in the past, although Admiral says 
business use has become much less of a rating factor in the last few years, and annual 
mileage has become more of a factor than what the vehicle is used for.
In any case Mr R would have needed to pay for insurance throughout the period, so I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Admiral to refund all his premiums. Admiral has paid Mr R £140 
and I think this was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. So I wont be asking Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to pay him anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman