DRN-3832539
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) made mistakes when sending a new credit card. 
S wants Cashplus to compensate it for its wasted time, poor customer service and loss of 
cashflow.
S is represented in its complaint by a director, Mrs M.
What happened
S has a business bank account with Cashplus. S was accepted for a new credit card by 
Cashplus which wasnt delivered within the promised five working days.
After Mrs M contacted Cashplus she found advisors rude and unhelpful. Cashplus told her 
that the credit card had been returned as undelivered. Mrs M says shed asked for the credit 
card to be delivered to her home address where she also runs her business. 
Cashplus said that as Mrs M wanted to change the delivery address, she would need to 
send in proof of address. After Mrs M explained that her personal debit card was linked to 
her home address, she says the member of staff said it could resend the business credit 
card to her home address. But that afterwards, Cashplus back tracked and said Mrs M would 
either need to send proof of address or wait 30 days.
Mrs M says she wasted time trying to sort out delivery of the credit card and found members 
of staff rude and unhelpful. Shed hoped to use the card to buy new stock.
After this service became involved, Cashplus apologised for not noting sooner that Mrs Ms 
personal address had been verified within the last three months. Cashplus offered to send 
Ss credit card to Mrs Ms home address without the need for additional verification.
The investigator thought that although Cashplus followed the correct security procedure it 
couldve done more to get the new credit card delivered to Mrs Ms home address. The 
investigator thought that Cashpluss offer to send the card together with compensation of 
£50 was a fair way to resolve Ss complaint.
Mrs M disagrees with the proposed outcome. She says Cashplus only offered a resolution 
after 30 days had passed. Mrs M doesnt consider £50 adequately reflects the poor service 
received together with the time spent trying to resolve the issue.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs M found Cashplus staff rude and unhelpful but this complaint is made 
by S, not Mrs M. S cant have hurt feelings so although I appreciate how Mrs M has felt 
during her interactions with Cashplus, I cant make an award to S to reflect that distress.
I know that Mrs M thinks she put down her home address for delivery of the credit card but 
this isnt reflected in the evidence Ive seen. Cashplus has provided a copy of Ss credit card 
application form which only refers to the virtual business address. So, Im not persuaded that 
Cashplus made a mistake when it sent Ss credit card to the address that it held on file.
Like the investigator, I agree that Cashplus couldve been more helpful to S when Mrs M 
made contact. As Cashplus had verified Mrs Ms personal address within the last three 
months, it wouldve been reasonable to send Ss credit card without the need for additional 
verification. For this failing, I consider the investigators suggestion of £50 compensation is 
fair. It reflects the inconvenience caused to S when Mrs M had to speak to Cashplus  which 
I assume diverted time away from running the business of S. 
Mrs M has suggested £250 would be reasonable compensation but I dont agree. Although 
Mrs M says she wouldve used the credit card to buy new stock for S, I havent seen 
evidence of a direct financial loss to S. Overall, I consider £50 adequately takes account of 
the inconvenience to S after Cashplus shouldve noticed that Mrs Ms home address had 
previously been verified.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should:
if it hasnt already done so, send Ss credit card to the home address that it holds for 
Mrs M; and 
pay S £50.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman