DRN-3696807
The complaint
Mr G says MBNA Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for flights for him and his family.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr G used his MBNA credit card to make payment for flights. He bought them 
through a website Ill call firm L who arranged the flights to be supplied by two different 
airlines. Mr G was due to fly in late June 2021. Before the flights were due to fly the 
government published guidance recommending against non-essential foreign travel.
Mr G says he saw this government guidance and thus emailed Firm L asking to cancel and 
for him to be refunded as per the voucher scheme that Mr G had agreed to when purchasing 
the tickets. Firm L then told Mr G the value of the voucher to be received which was 
significantly less than the amount hed paid. So Mr G complained to MBNA to see if it could 
help.
MBNA says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund 
him. It pointed to the non-refundable nature of the airplane tickets, that Mr G had been given 
a voucher and it said the flights had actually taken place. It has also said that there wasnt 
the required relationship between parties for MBNA to be held responsible. And it didnt think 
a Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. So Mr G, still unsatisfied, brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt MBNA didnt have to do anymore. And Mr G remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G used him MBNA credit card to pay Firm L for the flights. This means that if certain 
criteria are met MBNA can have certain responsibilities to Mr G which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in 
certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr G to hold MBNA liable for 
breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In 
essence MBNA can be held responsible for a like claim against the supplier.
Also Mr Gs MBNA credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by another 
company. And this scheme has rules which includes giving MBNA an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process. This 
isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on such chargebacks is the 
scheme/network itself and not MBNA. So it is possible that MBNA could take it as far as 
possible and Mr G still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about MBNA and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr G fairly. This decision isnt about airlines or 
Firm L, which arent within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and 
S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could MBNA challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr G doesnt dispute that he used him MBNA credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think MBNA 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr G didnt properly authorise the transaction, 
given what Ive just set out.
MBNA is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
MBNA didnt raise a chargeback because it felt it didnt have a reasonable prospect of 
success. It said it concluded this because it understands that Mr G cancelled the flights, the 
flights flew and were non-refundable. It also pointed to there being a voucher available. And 
having considered what happened here and knowing that Mr G knew about the voucher 
scheme from beforehand and asked to be refunded as per the voucher scheme I think it 
likely that had MBNA raised a chargeback, it would have been defended. And considering 
everything in the round Im not persuaded that the chargeback had a realistic prospect of 
success.
I appreciate the comments Mr G has made regarding the government guidelines not being 
his fault and him not having a realistic choice in travelling. But neither are the government 
guidelines Firm Ls fault either. And Mr G did purchase non-refundable tickets and agreed to 
the voucher scheme at the point of purchase.
The card scheme has also provided guidance around pandemic related chargebacks as has 
been described to Mr G already by this service. And having considered the guidance 
alongside what happened here Im satisfied that the guidance makes clear that Mr G didnt 
have a chargeback right. And the scheme is a dispute resolution service between the card 
user and the merchant which works through a reason codes process which is limited to the 
facts of what happened in a transaction.
I think on balance had the chargeback been raised it would have been ultimately 
unsuccessful. So I dont think Mr G has lost out because of what MBNA did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Gs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point because for 
other reasons I have decided that MBNA doesnt need to do anymore in relation to this 
complaint. For MBNA to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr G which 
was untrue and that his fair reliance on that untruth led to loss.
Weve already established that the flights was available for Mr G to use. Hence it is clear 
there is no breach of contract on the part of the airline in regard to providing the flights. And 
it is also clear that Firm L booked the flights as instructed and when Mr G cancelled the 
flights it provided the voucher as previously agreed. And so its clear that Firm L didnt 
breach the contract Mr G had with it either. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Mr G 
being told something that was untrue which he reasonably relied upon and which then led to 
loss. So without any misrepresentation or breach of contract here MBNA cannot be held to a 
like claim and thus doesnt have to refund Mr G. 
It would be unfair on MBNA to have to pay out in these circumstances as it doesnt have 
responsibility for the government guidelines being issued. I appreciate the reasons why Mr G 
didnt travel, and I appreciate my decision means hes lost out. But he did cancel non-
refundable tickets and did get a voucher as per the agreement he made regarding the 
voucher scheme.
It should also be remembered that the only reason MBNA is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then MBNA wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the flights (it would have obligations around Chargeback but that isnt as 
extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). 
Mr G says I was not allowed to cancel the flights and get a full refund despite the very 
unusual circumstances of the government issuing guidance regarding non-essential travel. 
But these were non-cancellable flights that were non-refundable. If Mr G had not engaged 
with the voucher scheme hed have got nothing in these circumstances, and I would have 
considered that fair. If any service is non-refundable and non-cancellable then however 
unusual the circumstances, such circumstances dont alter the agreement entered into. Or 
make it fair that another party refunds non-refundable tickets so that Mr G didnt suffer a 
loss.
I fully accept Mr G hasnt done anything wrong here. But neither has MBNA. And ultimately 
the agreement Mr G entered meant that if Mr G cancelled then he didnt get a refund from 
the airlines. Which is what happened. And there is no aspect of the contracts in place which 
refunds Mr G in such circumstances. I dont think Firm L has done anything wrong here 
either which MBNA would be liable for. So it would be unfair for MBNA to bear such a loss 
which isnt its fault either.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr G wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Gs avenues for recouping the difference between the voucher and the 
cost of the transaction will be significantly limited. But this does not mean that MBNA has 
done anything wrong in dealing with the issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should 
refund him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr G has said, Im not persuaded 
MBNA has treated Mr G unfairly. So I dont think MBNA has done anything else wrong here 
which requires further action. And as a consequence Ive decided that Mr Gs complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman