DRN-2879468
The complaint
Mr R complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd failed to 
provide him with appropriate advice on the taxation implications of withdrawing his pension 
savings as a lump sum in May 2018. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I thought that the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have confirmed receipt of that 
provisional decision, but I include some extracts from it below. In my provisional decision 
I said;
Mr Rs relationship was with an appointed representative of Quilter. I understand his 
relationship with the financial advisor had been in place for almost 30 years. At no 
time during that period did Mr R have any direct contact with Quilter. But it is Quilter 
that is responsible for the advice given by its appointed representative and for 
dealing with Mr Rs complaint. For ease, I will generally refer to Quilter as the 
advising business throughout this decision.
Mr R held pension savings within a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). At the 
time he sought the advice I am considering here he was still employed, but had 
decided to retire. He was in receipt of a state pension that was already in payment.
Quilter has provided us with a copy of a Financial Strategy Report it says was 
produced for, and given to, Mr R in late March 2018. Quilter says that report was 
produced three days after a telephone meeting with Mr R. It says that Mr R accepted 
the content of the report and as a result instructed the firm to request the withdrawal 
of his pension savings.
Mr R says that he didnt receive a copy of the report, or any information in writing 
from Quilter about his plans. He says he was therefore surprised and distressed 
when the withdrawal of his pension savings in May 2018 resulted in him incurring 
significant tax charges. He says that he now understands that some of those tax 
charges could have been avoided had he split the withdrawal of his pension savings 
over two tax years. 
I have a number of significant concerns about the evidence Quilter has presented in 
relation to this complaint. Mr R has said that he didnt receive a copy of the Financial 
Strategy Report that has now been provided  and he has said that he thinks it likely 
that document was produced following his complaint as an attempt to defend the 
advisors actions. Our adjudicator asked Quilter for copies of any recordings of phone 
conversations between Mr R and his advisor. None have been provided, so I can 
only assume the calls werent recorded, or the recordings are no longer available.
My concerns in looking at this complaint mainly relate to the timescales of when 
things happened. And those concerns involve other pieces of advice that Mr R says 
he received, although they dont seem to have been formally documented by Quilter.
It seems clear to me that Mr R was considering his retirement during the latter part of 
2017. And I have seen evidence to show that he provided notice to his employer of 
his intended retirement at the start of February 2018. Mr R agreed a retirement date 
of 29 March with his employer.
Mr R says, in my opinion quite plausibly, that he chose a date before the start of the 
new tax year following discussions with Quilter. I do think that it is possible Mr R 
misinterpreted, in a limited way, that discussion I think the advice hed most likely 
have received from Quilter was about ensuring that he took his pension income in a 
subsequent tax year to his employment income to reduce the amount of higher rate 
tax that he would need to pay.
Ultimately, if Mr R had retired in the early part of the new tax year his earnings would 
have been small and only had a negligible impact on the withdrawal of his pension 
savings. But this does suggest to me that there were discussions between Mr R and 
Quilter about the taxation of his withdrawn pension savings far earlier than the 
Financial Strategy Report might lead one to conclude.
And that conclusion is further strengthened by an email Mr R sent to his partner at 
the end of January 2018. In that email he explained that he been told that if he 
requested his pension savings be withdrawn by 11 March, the deadline set by the 
SIPP administrator, the payment would be made on 5 April. He says in the email that 
was the only payment date available that month and would result in higher rate 
taxation being incurred. So the email went on to say the request would need to be 
made by 11 April for payment on 5 May.
The dates that Mr R provided in the above email are very specific. I can only 
reasonably conclude they were provided by Quilter in response to discussions it had 
with Mr R about his intention to take a withdrawal from his pension savings following 
his retirement later that year.
Mr R has told us that his intention was to withdraw his pension savings in order to 
fund the purchase of a large motorhome that he, and his partner, would use as their 
primary residence whilst touring both in the UK and abroad. That intention is also 
reflected in the Financial Strategy Report that Quilter gave us. It confirms that Mr R 
was intending to purchase the vehicle in May 2018.
But it is clear to me that Mr R had already committed to that purchase several 
months earlier. The email that I referred to above made reference to needing to 
agree a revised payment date with the motorhome company. And a later email from 
the company in May 2018, chasing payment when Mr R was financially struggling 
due to the increased tax charges, said that the purchase had been ongoing for six 
months.
The Financial Strategy Report opens by noting that numerous conversations had 
taken place between Quilter and Mr R about his pension withdrawals. It then goes on 
to say that Mr R had got in touch to request the withdrawal on 20 March. That 
comment, and the date that Mr R made contact, appear to align with what I have said 
earlier. I think that the contact made on 20 March was simply the culmination of a 
series of discussions and not the request for formal advice to be provided.
The Financial Strategy Report notes that no charge is being made for the advice 
being provided to Mr R, or for facilitating his withdrawal request. Whilst it is unusual 
for no charges to be levied for a report of this nature, it is entirely possible that 
reflected the longstanding nature of Mr Rs relationship with the advisor. But I think it equally possible that the report noted no charges were being levied since doing so 
would have needed Mr Rs prior agreement  something that couldnt have been 
achieved had he not received a copy of the report.
Having considered everything that has been provided by both parties, on balance, 
I share Mr Rs assertion that the Financial Strategy Report we have been provided is 
unlikely to have been provided to him at the time, and so wasnt the basis of the 
decisions he made. Instead I think it most likely that over the months leading up to 
his retirement he was provided with, at the very least, information by Quilter about 
how he could minimise his taxation liability and fund the purchase of his motorhome.
It seems to me that the information that Quilter provided to Mr R fell short of what he 
might reasonably expect. I think Quilter provided Mr R with appropriate information 
about when he would need to request the withdrawal to be made, to ensure that it 
was paid in the following tax year. And I think that by considering Mr Rs retirement 
date it ensured that his income from his employment, in the period that the 
withdrawal was made, would not adversely impact the amount of tax he would need 
to pay.
But I dont think that Quilter, in its discussions with Mr R in the early part of 2018, 
fairly considered the size of the withdrawal Mr R was intending to make. Had it done 
so, I think it would have been clear at that time that the benefits of splitting the 
withdrawal over the next two tax years should have been explained. I accept that 
those considerations were explained carefully and in some detail in the Financial 
Strategy Report. But as Ive said earlier I am not persuaded that report formed the 
basis of the transaction that Mr R made. So I currently intend to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and intend to direct Quilter to pay him some compensation.
In my considerations so far, I have looked at the higher rate tax that Mr R has been 
liable to pay. But the tax that the SIPP administrator deducted from Mr Rs withdrawal 
was significantly higher. Again, that situation is explored in the Financial Strategy 
Report, but as Ive said I dont think Quilter can rely on that document to support its 
case. Here however the deduction of what is known as Emergency taxation is 
directed by HMRC. There is nothing that Mr R, the SIPP administrator, or Quilter can 
do to reduce that deduction. The additional tax is of course refunded in due course 
by HMRC, and I can see that is what happened in Mr Rs case. But if he hadnt been 
aware of that situation, I have no doubts that it would have caused additional distress 
to Mr R.
I asked both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Although it has said it received my provisional decision Quilter has not 
provided us with anything further. Mr R has said that he fully agrees with the content of my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct that Quilter should pay 
him some compensation.
  
Putting things rightAs I said in my provisional decision, any compensation that I direct would be with the 
intention of putting Mr R back into the position he would have been if nothing had gone 
wrong. That is difficult here as it seems to me that Mr R did have a need, or at least a desire, 
to withdraw his entire pension savings on his retirement to fund the purchase of the 
motorhome. But doing so would incur the taxation costs that he is complaining about.
Had Quilter provided Mr R with clearer information in its initial discussions with him, I think it 
most likely that he would have spread his withdrawal over two tax years, and so reduced the 
amount of higher rate tax that would be due. I accept that this would have required Mr R to 
find alternative means to finance part of the purchase of the motorhome. But on balance 
I think that would have been feasible for Mr R, and significantly more attractive than paying 
the additional tax.
So to put things right, I have assumed that Mr R would have taken his pension withdrawal 
over two separate tax years. In its Financial Strategy Report Quilter provided a calculation to 
show the tax savings that would be achieved by taking that approach. And the outcome from 
those calculations matches the additional tax that Mr R says he has paid. Those calculations 
were based on the value of Mr Rs pension savings at the date the advice was given.
Ultimately the value was a little higher, but for simplicity I am not going to account for that 
increase when assessing the compensation Quilter should pay. I think that fairly offsets the 
cost of any finance Mr R might have needed to pay for part of his motorhome.
So, to put things right for Mr R, I direct Quilter to;
Pay compensation to Mr R equal to the additional higher rate taxation it has 
calculated he would pay by taking the entire withdrawal within a single tax year. 
Quilters calculations show that amount to be £6,284.
Add simple interest to that compensation at a rate of 8% per annum from the date the 
withdrawal was paid to Mr R to the date of settlement*.
Pay a further sum of £500 to Mr R to reflect the disruption this issue has caused to 
his retirement planning.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quilter to take off tax from this interest. Quilter must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman