The complaint
Mr A has complained that the broker, Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd provided a poor 
service when he bought a car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A bought a car insurance policy through the broker Be Wiser on 11 March 2019. On 16 
March 2019 he told Be Wiser his address had changed. Be Wiser informed the insurer on 
the next working day. However, the insurer discovered a claim which hadnt been disclosed 
for one of the named drivers. So it asked for proof of the claim.
Mr A told Be Wiser the named drivers claim had been settled as a non fault claim. Be 
Wiser asked Mr A to provide proof for the insurer. Be Wiser said that the insurer wouldnt 
process the address change until this was received  as it said the claim may affect whether 
the policy could continue. 
On 18 March 2019 Be Wiser told Mr A the insurers premium would go up by over £3,000 for 
the change of address. It said it could look for alternative cover once it received proof of the 
named drivers claim being a non fault claim.
Mr As policy was a telematics policy. A requirement under the policy was to have a 
telematics box fitted to his car. On 20 March 2019 the insurer issued a seven day 
cancellation letter to Mr A as the insurer said Mr A missed the arranged appointment and 
Mr A hadnt answered the engineers attempts to contact him. If the box wasnt fitted by 27 
March 2019, Mr As policy would be cancelled. 
In the meantime, Mr A provided details of the named drivers claim. But this showed the 
claim was still open. So it couldnt be recorded as a closed non fault claim. Mr A asked for 
the named driver to be removed. On 23 March 2019 the insurer told Be Wiser that the 
change of address along with removing the named driver meant it would not be able to 
provide insurance for Mr A. 
A second appointment had been made for 26 March 2019 for the box to be fitted to Mr As 
car. But because the insurer now unable to provide cover due to the other changes, they 
cancelled the appointment without telling Mr A. Be Wiser said the reason for this was to 
prevent further charges as the fee for fitting the box was non refundable. 
Be Wiser said it would need to issue a further seven day cancellation notice to Mr A as the 
reason for cancellation wasnt due to the box not being fitted. 
DRN-2018764This was through no fault of Mr As. The correct reason for cancellation was due to the 
change of address. So Be Wiser said a further seven days notice for cancellation would be 
necessary in line with the policy terms and to be fair to Mr A. 
However, Mr A told Be Wiser hed obtained alternative insurance elsewhere as he believed 
his policy had already been cancelled. Mr As policy was cancelled on 28 March 2019.
In April 2019 Be Wiser agreed to waive its cancellation fees and it reduced its arrangement 
fee by £20 for the incorrect information and poor service provided. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said he was working on 
the day the second appointment had been arranged and had been checking his phone all 
day waiting for the engineer to arrive and fit the black box. He said Be Wiser told him his 
policy could continue, but then said it couldnt. He said Be Wiser didnt call him back when 
promised. 
Our investigator thought Be Wiser should pay Mr A compensation of £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused  in addition to waiving it cancellation fees. He felt any fees Be 
Wiser had charged for cancellation outside of the cooling off period should have been 
refunded in any event and didnt compensate Mr A. 
Mr A didnt reply. Be Wiser didnt agree. It said it was the insurers decision not to process 
the address change until it had proof of the named drivers claim. It said it waived £255.73 of 
its charges. So it doesnt believe it should pay any more. 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2020. I thought Be Wiser had done enough to put 
things right, so I didnt intend to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Mr A didnt reply. Be Wiser acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. 
So the case has been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A was upset that his policy would be cancelled due to not having 
the black box fitted  when the insurer cancelled the appointment. Ive considered whether 
Be Wiser did enough to resolve Mr As complaint by looking at what went wrong, and what 
would have happened if Mr As policy had been correctly cancelled. From what Ive seen, I 
think Be Wiser has acted reasonably.
Because Mr A changed his address shortly after setting up the policy  and didnt disclose 
the correct claims history for one of the named drivers, this inevitably led to some back and 
forth between Be Wiser, Mr A and the insurer. The period of time dealing with the change of 
address and request for details of the named drivers claim took 12 days.
When Be Wiser told Mr A the difference in premium due to the change of address on 18 
March 2019, it offered to look for alternative insurance  but it needed proof of the correct 
claims information for the named driver.
There were times when Be Wiser called Mr A to discuss his policy and either couldnt speak 
to him  or he asked it to call him back later, which Be Wiser did. As the broker, I think it 
promptly passed information between the insurer and Mr A. I dont think the cancellation of Mr As policy was delayed because of anything Be Wiser did 
or failed to do. Mr A provided proof of the named drivers claim on 21 March 2019. 
This information meant the insurer wouldnt provide cover for Mr A as the premium for this 
change - along with his change of address - was beyond the underwriters appetite for risk. 
The proof was different to the information Mr A gave the day before. Mr A had said the claim 
had been settled as a non fault claim.
So the earliest Mr As policy would have been cancelled in any event would have been 28 
March 2019  assuming the insurer gave seven days notice to cancel on the same day as 
the proof was provided. So I dont think Mr As policy would have cancelled any sooner. 
When Mr As policy was cancelled on 28 March 2019, he paid for the days he was insured. 
Be Wiser reduced its non refundable arrangement fee of £62.38 by £20. And it waived its 
cancellation fee of £100 and a returned commission fee of £186.75.
Its fair that Mr A should pay the insurer for the days he was insured. And I dont think its 
unreasonable for a broker to charge an arrangement fee as it arranged the policy. Be 
Wisers terms of business set out its fees which Mr A would have been aware of when he 
bought the policy. As I dont think Be Wiser caused undue delay in this case, I think its 
decision to waive its cancellation fees which were correctly due was reasonable to resolve 
Mr As complaint. 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think Be Wiser needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman