DRN-4461923
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the quality of a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance (RCI). 
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs N took out a hire purchase agreement with RCI for a used car. This car 
was just over three years old and had travelled around 35,000 miles. The cash price was 
£21,795. 
Mrs N paid a deposit of £7,300. The rest was to be repaid in monthly instalments of 
approximately £304 for five years, using the finance agreement. Mrs N says she paid an 
additional amount to the dealer for a one-year warranty.
Mrs N has told us that she had a problem with the car on 28 January 2022, when it went into 
limp mode. Shes shown us a report from the breakdown and recovery service, confirming 
the engine management light (EML) was on, the exhaust gas recirculation valve (EGR) was 
stuck, and the car wasnt driveable.
The car was recovered to a manufacturers garage, who advised replacement of the glow 
plug and main power relays. Mrs N told us that she reclaimed this cost under the warranty.  
Mrs N says the car went into limp mode again on 26 February 2022. Shes shown us a 
report from the breakdown and recovery service, which says:
Ran diagnostics and there were lots of fault codes stored cleared codes and fault code 
relating to EGR valve.
Fault kept on returning vehicle needs to be recovered as not driveable.
Mrs N says she complained to RCI that she wanted to return the car due to these problems, 
but they advised her to take it back to the manufacturers garage for diagnosis and repair 
under warranty. They offered to reimburse one months payment as a goodwill gesture, to 
help with the upfront cost of diagnostic work.
Mrs N says the car broke down again on 28 April 2022. Shes shown us a diagnostic report 
from the breakdown service, saying:
Faults logged for EGR, mass air flow and relays. Strong smell of exhaust gas from under 
the bonnet and possibly adblue, unable to see source. Battery also low.
The car was again recovered to the manufacturers garage. Mrs N says she paid £60 for the 
diesel particulate filter (DPF) to be regenerated, but this didnt resolve the problem. The 
garage advised her to replace the battery, but Mrs N wasnt happy to pay for this to be done.
On 26 May 2022 RCI issued their final response to Mrs Ns complaint. They said they 
thought the dealer had provided a suitable remedy by carrying out diagnostics and 
identifying repairs needed. They advised Mrs N to book the car in again for the 
recommended repair to be carried out, saying: 
if the battery is underperforming then many other parts including the DPF and EGR will 
be switched off by the Engine Control and it is likely your vehicle will continue to 
experience further issues and breakdowns. 
RCI confirmed that, as a goodwill gesture, theyd made a payment of £304.26 to Mrs Ns 
bank account to help with initial diagnostic and repair costs. 
Mrs N says the car broke down again within a few weeks of the battery being changed. 
Shes shown us a copy of an invoice dated 6 July 2022, showing a replacement battery was 
purchased at a cost of £125. 
The car was taken to a different manufacturers garage to find out what was wrong with it. 
The garage has provided a copy of their job card, showing the car was booked in on 6 July 
2022 for investigation into the EML light on the dashboard. Theyve also provided a copy of 
their invoice dated 23 September 2022, detailing diagnostic work theyd carried out. It states:
EML on display: fault stored EGR requires emissions control unit.
Emissions control unit had failed, looks like this may have caused damage to the turbo. 
Advised requires new turbo and associated parts to rectify.
Mrs N says she tried to claim the cost of this repair under warranty. The warranty company 
sent the turbo to a specialist, who said it had failed due to foreign object damage.  The 
warranty company then arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car on 21 
September 2022. That engineer reported:
We could see no evidence to suggest a sudden failure or impact damage had occurred. 
We do consider the causation is due to wear and deterioration, which would not be 
unexpected of a vehicle of this age.
RCI said Mrs Ns dispute was with the warranty company - and that they were unable to help 
her. Unhappy with this situation, Mrs N brought her complaint to us. 
Mrs N told us she couldnt afford to pay the manufacturers garage for the diagnostic work 
theyd carried out - or the price theyd quoted for the repairs. She says a payment plan was 
set up in her husbands name to pay for the diagnostic work, but shed only been able to 
afford to make four of the agreed six instalments. 
Mrs N says she arranged for the car to be recovered to an independent local garage for 
repair. Shes provided a copy of a receipt dated 2 November 2022, showing she paid a total 
of £1,515. Mrs N says she had to sell the car due to the amount of money shed spent on it - 
and that shes been struggling financially ever since. 
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he didnt think the car had been 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs N. He thought the problems with the 
emissions control unit and turbo were most likely to have been already present or developing 
at that time - and he didnt think the turbo could be considered durable.
To put things right, the investigator said RCI should refund the monthly payments Mrs N had 
made for the period between July and November 2022, when she hadnt had a car to use. 
And he said they should reimburse her for any diagnostic or repair work shed had to pay for. 
The investigator thought RCI should pay Mrs N a further £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience shed been caused. And he said they should remove any adverse 
information recorded on her credit file about this agreement. RCI said they hadnt seen invoices or receipts showing costs Mrs N had incurred. They 
didnt agree with the investigators view that the problem with the turbo was likely to have 
been present when the car was supplied to her  or that it hadnt been durable. 
RCI provided a copy of the turbo specialists report, stating the turbo had failed due to 
foreign object damage. They said theyd asked the company who undertook this inspection 
for more information about this, and had been advised:
 Foreign object damages are caused by external influences such as carbon, debris, dirt, 
stones, or any other solid particles entering the engines intake system. 
If a foreign object is sucked into the turbochargers intake, it can collide with the rotating 
compressor wheel. The high-speed rotation of the compressor wheel means that even 
small objects can strike it with significant force. The impact can cause physical damage to 
the wheel, resulting in dents, or chips.
As RCI didnt agree with our investigators view of Mrs Ns complaint, it was passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The agreement Mrs N entered into with RCI was for hire purchase, so I can consider her 
complaint about it. Under this type of agreement, RCI is the supplier of the car. So, theyre 
responsible for a complaint about the cars quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is satisfactory. It goes 
on to explain that things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects, and durability 
can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, it seems likely that the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over three years old and had covered 
around 35,000 miles when it was supplied to Mrs N. It cost £21,795, which is significantly 
less than it wouldve cost when it was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the 
same standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. But I think theyd 
still expect to be able to drive it for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
In this case Mrs N bought a warranty from the dealer. I think its important to stress that 
having an additional warranty in place doesnt affect Mrs Ns statutory rights under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 - or the legal remedies available to her if those rights havent 
been met. My decision will focus on whether the problems Mrs N experienced with the car 
were likely to have been due to it not having been of satisfactory quality from the start. 
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs N?
A large amount of evidence has been put forward in this case - including conflicting opinions 
about what caused the problems with the car. I want to reassure both parties that Ive reviewed all of that information in detail. But my decision will focus on what I consider to be 
the main issues in this case. If I havent commented on a specific point, its because I dont 
think it affects what I believe to be the right outcome. 
The breakdown reports Mrs N has provided show a problem was identified with the EGR 
valve getting stuck on 28 January 2022. The manufacturers garage invoice dated 4 
February 2022 records the cars mileage to have been 35,658 at that time. So, I can see it 
had only covered around 600 miles by the time Mrs N started to have problems with it 
breaking down. 
The evidence shows that, despite various attempts to diagnose and fix whatever was 
causing it, the problems with the car continued until ultimately the turbo failed in July 2022. 
The independent engineers report dated 21 September 2022 records the mileage to have 
been 37,544. So, Mrs N had only had around 2,500 miles use of the car by this point. 
I note that the independent engineer considered the cause of the turbo failure to have been 
wear and deterioration, which would not be unexpected of a vehicle of this age. I disagree. 
Bearing in mind the price shed paid for this car, I think Mrs N could reasonably expect the 
turbo to last longer than that. I wouldnt consider this to be sufficiently durable.
RCI stress that the turbo specialist believes the failure was due to solid particles entering the 
engines intake system and coming into contact with the compressor wheel of the turbo. Ive 
considered this. 
But I havent seen any evidence to suggest this was caused by anything Mrs N had done. I 
think its most likely that any foreign object that entered the engines intake system came 
from within the engine bay. I note that the manufacturers garage invoice dated 23 
September 2022 states: emissions control unit had failed, looks like this may have caused 
damage to the turbo.
For these reasons, I dont consider the car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mrs N. I think she should reasonably have been able to expect it to last for longer 
than this without the need for major repair work.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Mrs N has incurred additional recovery, diagnostic and repair costs 
because shed been supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Ill summarise 
these:
Date Description Amount Paid?
17 May 2022 Regenerate DPF £60 Paid
6 July 2022 Replacement battery £125 Paid
19 October 2022
14 November 2022
14 December 2022
14 January 2023
14 February 2023
14 March 2023Diagnostic work £90
£90
£90
£90
£90
£90Paid
Paid
Paid
Paid
Still owed 
Still owed
2 November 2022 Recovery and repair £1,515 PaidI note that RCI refunded £304.26 to Mrs Ns bank account on 20 May 2022 to help with initial 
diagnostic and repair costs. I think its fair that they should reimburse her for the balance of 
the costs shes incurred, with interest. I calculate this to be £1,755.74. And I think RCI should 
pay the £180 still owed to the manufacturers garage for diagnostic work detailed in their 
invoice dated 23 September 2022. 
Mrs N says she wasnt able to drive the car after the last time it broke down  and that she 
wasnt provided with a courtesy car to use in the meantime. The job card created by the 
manufacturers garage shows it was taken there on 6 July 2022, and the receipt for the 
repair work is dated 2 November 2022. I think its reasonable to assume the car was 
driveable again at that point. 
So, I think it would be fair for RCI to refund the monthly payments Mrs N made for the period 
from 6 July 2022 until 2 November 2022, to reflect the fact that she didnt have a car to use 
during that time. 
I think Mrs N has suffered stress and inconvenience due to the issues with the car. She says 
it was in and out of garages for much of the first year  and that paying for repairs caused 
her financial difficulties. 
I do think Mrs N couldve done more to help get the problem diagnosed. Given that RCI 
offered her just over £300 in April 2022 to help with diagnostic and repair costs, I think 
following the manufacturers recommendation at that point wouldve ruled out the battery as 
a possible cause of the problems with the car at an earlier stage. 
I think this delayed getting the problem diagnosed and resolved. But I cant say the outcome 
wouldve been any different if Mrs N had replaced the battery two or three months earlier. 
The evidence Ive seen shows this didnt fix the problem - and RCI still didnt agree to uphold 
Mrs Ns complaint.
Having thought about this, I think its fair for RCI to pay Mrs N £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct RCI Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance to:
Reimburse Mrs N £1,755.74 for recovery, diagnostic and repair costs shes incurred.
Pay the £180 Mrs N owes to the manufacturers garage, to clear the balance of their 
invoice dated 23 September 2023.
Refund the monthly payments Mrs N made for the period from 6 July 2022 to 2 
November 2022.
Add interest to each of the above payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mrs Ns credit file about 
this agreement. 
Pay Mrs N £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. 
If RCI consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mrs N how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. RCI didnt respond.Mrs N said she was happy with the provisional decision. She asked whether she could also 
be reimbursed for the payments shed made to the manufacturers garage for diagnostic 
work. She explained that the delay in having the battery changed was due to not having 
insufficient funds to pay for that as well as the monthly instalment to RCI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mrs N that the four instalments she paid to the manufacturers garage 
have been included in my calculation of the amount RCI should reimburse for recovery, 
diagnostic and repair costs shes incurred. Ive included a full list of those costs in a table, 
which can be found at the bottom of page four of this document. 
As no new information has been provided in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change my mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct RCI Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Nissan Finance to:
Reimburse Mrs N £1,755.74 for recovery, diagnostic and repair costs shes incurred.
Pay the £180 Mrs N owes to the manufacturers garage, to clear the balance of their 
invoice dated 23 September 2023.
Refund the monthly payments Mrs N made for the period from 6 July 2022 to 2 
November 2022.
Add interest to each of the above payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mrs Ns credit file about 
this agreement. 
Pay Mrs N £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. 
If RCI consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
tell Mrs N how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction certificate if 
she asks for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman