DRN-2256971
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her claim for 
accidental damage after initially telling her the claim would be covered.
What happened
Mrs B had home insurance with RSA, including cover for buildings, contents and accidental 
damage. Her daughter, who lived with Mrs B, broke the patio window when she couldnt gain 
access to the house. She feared that something had happened to her elderly mother. As it 
happens, Mrs B was well and on the property.
Two weeks later, Mrs B made a claim under her home insurance which RSA accepted. After 
about an hour, RSA called her back to say it had made a mistake and the damage wasnt 
covered under the accidental damage section of her policy. Mrs B complained that it had 
given her incorrect information and thought it should cover the cost of repairs. RSA accepted 
it had made a mistake to begin with and offered £25 by way of apology. But it reiterated its 
position that the damage wasnt covered under the accidental damage clause.
Mrs B didnt think it had done enough to resolve the matter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that RSAs mistake was relatively 
minor and corrected quickly. So, she thought the impact on Mrs B for that brief period was 
minimal. Our investigator thought RSAs offer was fair under the circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a review based on the evidence already available.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to be clear about the aspects of Mrs Bs complaint which are not addressed in 
my decision. I understand that she has complained to RSA about discrimination, but Mrs B 
asked us not to investigate that now because she is seeking further information. I also 
understand she felt that RSA made further mistakes when it sent a contractor round to 
measure for a new window. However, RSA told us that Mrs B hasnt complained to it about 
that matter and it should have the opportunity to investigate first. Having looked at the 
evidence, I can see that this is correct, and I agree it should have the opportunity to respond 
to Mrs B in the first instance. 
So, my decision is about whether it was fair for RSA to decline Mrs Bs claim, and the way it 
handled the initial contact.
RSA initially accepted the claim under accidental damage, but then declined it because the 
damage described wasnt covered. The policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and visible damage which hasnt been caused on purpose.
Mrs B hasnt said the damage was accidental. She confirmed that her daughter broke the 
window on purpose because she felt it was necessary. But the policy is clear about what 
accidental damage is and, as Mrs Bs daughter intended to break the window, Im satisfied 
that it was fair for RSA to decline cover in line with the policy terms.
RSA accepted the claim at first and Ive looked at whether that caused any detriment. Mrs 
Bs daughter acted in response to a situation which caused her concern when she broke the 
patio window. I can understand why RSA may have thought the damage wouldve been 
covered under the policy because, although intentional, the damage was well-meant. 
Nevertheless, it was still intended and, therefore, not covered by the policy. 
That said, in the circumstances, I think it wouldve been prudent for RSA to confirm cover 
before telling Mrs B it had accepted her claim. Mrs B didnt make her claim until a couple of 
weeks after the incident, and RSA corrected its mistake an hour after Mrs B first contacted it. 
It also offered £25 by way of apology. Given the brief length of time it took for RSA to correct 
its position, and the claim at that point wasnt time-critical, I think the impact on Mrs B 
wouldve been minimal. So, Im satisfied that RSAs offer of £25 was fair.
As a final point, Im aware that Mrs Bs policy covers damage caused when gaining access 
to deal with an emergency. But I should make it clear that the clause only covers damage 
caused by emergency services. Mrs Bs daughter didnt call out any of the emergency 
services so I cant reasonably expect RSA to cover the damage under this term.
In summary, while theres no doubt that her actions were well-intended, Mrs Bs daughter 
did, nevertheless, intend to break the patio window. Intentional damage is not covered under 
the policy, and Im satisfied that RSAs offer of £25 for its original mistake is fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman