DRN-4083985
The complaint
Mr N complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway granted him a hire 
purchase agreement without carrying out proportionate checks and took advantage of his 
situation by applying a high rate of interest. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr N acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr N was required to make 53 monthly repayments of around £449, with a final 
payment of around £459. The total repayable under the agreement was around £24,239.
Mr N says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks and that the interest 
rate on the agreement was too high. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included asking Mr N about his net income and checking his 
income and expenses using his credit file and current account. It says it assessed Mr Ns 
expenses based on his credit report, an estimated rental amount based on his postcode, and 
an amount for his cost of living based on data from a recognised statistical data source. It 
said that based on its checks the agreement was affordable for Mr N.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneyway didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr N didnt agree and reiterated his comments about the interest rate being too high. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneyway carried out a credit report and having looked at the results I do not find that these 
raise concerns that meant further checks should have taken place, or the lending shouldnt 
have been provided.
Moneyway has said it checked Mr Ns income using his credit file and current account and 
found the amount he had declared was likely correct. It said it then used statistical data to 
estimate Mr Ns expenses. While I note these checks, given the size of the agreement, its 
term and monthly repayments I think it would have been reasonable to have verified Mr Ns 
income and to have asked him about his expenses.
I cant be certain what Mr N would have told Moneyway had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneyway needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ns 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr N was earning around £2,700 a month. Mr Ns regular committed monthly expenditure at 
the time was around £650. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as utilities, 
other credit commitments, insurance and council tax. The repayments under the agreement 
were around £449 so this would leave Mr N with around £1,600 to cover the cost of his rent, 
food, fuel and other costs. Based on this I do not find that I can say further checks would 
have found the agreement to have been unaffordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that Moneyway acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mr N has also raised concerns about the rate of interest on the agreement. I appreciate that 
he hadnt long been in the UK and didnt have experience of accessing car loans, but I can 
see that the interest rate and repayments were clearly set out in the agreement that Mr N 
signed. As the information was available for him to make an informed decision I do not find I 
can say that Moneyway has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman