DRN-3306976
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allay Claims Ltd are asking him to pay a success fee for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim they said theyd closed.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr S said hed been told by Allay that his claims for mis-sold PPI were 
unsuccessful. He said Allay told him his claim with them was closed. But in October 2020 he 
received an invoice from Allay asking his to pay a success fee as his claim with his lender Ill 
call B was successful. Mr S said when he checked with B he was told they hadnt made 
any payment to him. He said hes tried to discuss with Allay but the phone has been put 
down on him several times. Mr S said he was very distressed by the situation as Allay were 
threatening him with legal action to recover their fee. He complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr S first contacted them about their services in December 2018 but he didnt 
authorise them at that time to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim. With the approach of the August 
2019 deadline for making such claims they approached Mr S again as they didnt want him 
to miss the opportunity to claim. Allay said Mr S signed a letter of authority (LoA) in August 
2019 and theyd submitted this to B. They said Mr S also completed a PPI questionnaire in 
support of his claim which again they submitted to B. Allay said B didnt uphold Mr S 
claim that PPI had been mis-sold to him. But they accepted that there had been an unfair 
relationship and offered redress to Mr S under the Plevin ruling. As Mr S had a successful 
claim, and Mr S hadnt cancelled his agreement with them Allay said their fee was justified.
Mr S wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr S had authorised Allay to act on his behalf in making a mis-sold 
PPI claim, and this included a Plevin claim. As Mr S claim was successful he said Allays fee 
was justified.
Mr S didnt agree. He reiterated that Allay had said his claim for PPI wasnt successful. And 
this had been confirmed by B. Allay had also told him his claim had been closed. He asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr S instructed Allay to act on his behalf to pursue a mis-sold PPI 
claim. But Mr S strongly feels that as Allay hadnt been successful in his mis-sold PPI claim, 
and had told him his case was closed, they arent entitled to ask him to pay any fee.
Allay says the redress awarded to Mr S was because of their submission of his LoA. And the 
authority he gave to them was to pursue mis-sold PPI and this included any consideration 
under the Plevin ruling.
Ours is an impartial alternative dispute resolution service, we consider the evidence provided 
by both parties. Where there is a different version of events, we will look to decide what most 
likely happened. So, in making my decision I need to determine whether Mr S had or hadnt 
authorised Allay not only to act for him for a mis-sold PPI claim but also whether hed agreed 
to a claim under the Plevin ruling. I will also consider whether I think Allay has acted fairly 
and reasonably in their actions with Mr S.
Allay has shown Mr S signed a LoA in August 2019 instructing them to act on his behalf. 
Allay said their terms and conditions had to be agreed to by Mr S before the LoA could be 
submitted to them. Mr S isnt disputing he signed the LoA and in signing the LoA I think Mr S 
agreed to Allays terms and conditions. So, Ive considered these.
The terms and conditions explain the service that Allay will provide:
An assessment of your case and potential claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) including excessive commission received by your lender.
And go on to say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction.For Plevin 
(excessive commission) claim(s), your signed and dated Letter of Authority is your 
instruction to submit the claim. If the claim is successful our normal fee, as per this Terms of 
Engagement, will apply.
Allay said B told them in late September 2020 that they werent upholding Mr Ss mis-sold 
PPI claim. I can see they updated Mr S the next day that his mis-sold PPI claim hadnt been 
successful. And that Mr S claim didnt meet their criteria for referring to the Financial 
Ombudsman for them to consider. So, theyd closed Mr Ss mis-sold PPI claim. But the letter 
makes no mention of any excessive commission claim.
A couple of days after this, B copied Allay into a letter they said theyd sent to Mr S. This 
reiterated that B didnt agree that the PPI policy had been mis-sold to Mr S. But based on 
the information submitted by Allay, B accepted that Mr Ss PPI premium included a high 
level of commission. And to compensate Mr S for the excessive commission that had been 
applied they offered Mr S redress, after an income tax deduction, of £445.32. In the 
notification B said the payment would be sent to Mr S by way of a cheque.  I can see the 
letter was addressed to the same address Mr S has given to us. 
In early October 2020 I can see Allay notified Mr S that theyd won his claim for non-
disclosure of commission earned during the sale of his PPI policy. And included their invoice 
for their fee as Mr S claim was successful. 
Ive listened to the call Mr S made to Allay questioning why he was being asked to pay a fee 
when hed been told his claim was closed. I can understand Mr Ss frustration, but I think 
Allays agent tried to explain that there were two parts to his claim, one was unsuccessful but 
the other was successful.  
Mr S was also unhappy because he was being invoiced for a fee when hed yet to receive 
any redress. But I can see the invoice stated:Payment terms: Immediately upon receipt of your refund or notification of a reduction in 
your debt with B or one of its associated lenders.
And in the call Mr S was told it could take up to 28 days for him to receive the cheque from 
B. And its been confirmed to us since that the cheque was sent by B in late September 
2020 and cashed in early October 2020.
The agreement Mr S had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision as he expected to receive a much higher 
offer of compensation for a mis-sold PPI claim. But taking all of the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. As I think Mr S claim was submitted by Allay and his Plevin 
claim for excessive commission was successful. So,I think Allay is justified in charging their 
fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman