DRN-3132530
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007 (the policy started in 2008 when the mortgage was drawdown) and again in 2010 when 
Mrs H took out further borrowing. Mrs H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI on both occasions 
and she chose to take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided some of what I 
consider are the key pieces of paperwork from the sales in 2007 and 2010. 
For example, for both sales Mrs H completed a separate PPI application to take out the 
cover and she signed separate direct debit mandates from the mortgage ones to allow 
the premiums to be taken from her bank account. I can also see that the respective 
mortgage offer letters said that only buildings insurance was compulsory  the 2007 offer 
explicitly described the PPI as being optional.
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs H chose to take out PPI on each occasion 
and likely did so without undue pressure.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs H in 2007 and in 2010 - so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of each 
sale, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For 
example Mrs H was eligible for the cover and she had limited means to fall back on to 
make the repayments on her mortgage if she wasnt working. Mrs H didnt have any 
savings and the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim - so I think she 
had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mrs Hs employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Mrs H says she had a couple of medical conditions 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because the things Mrs H told us about happened at birth and 
twenty years prior to the sale  the latter being a one-off type injury. Neither of the things 
Mrs H told us about appear to have caused her ongoing problems.
I can also see from the paperwork from the time of each sale that when asked by the 
adviser, Mrs H said she didnt have any health conditions or problems. So it seems to all 
intents and purposes Mrs H was in good health in 2007 and in 2010. In any event, the 
policy would allow claims for existing medical conditions so long as Mrs H had been 
symptom free for 24 months prior to any claim. I can also see that neither policy had any 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems  so overall I dont 
think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended PPI in 2007 and 2010.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs H about the PPI in 2007 and 2010 wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out both times - so 
it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs 
H as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was given each time. It also looks like both policies were 
affordable  so it seems like they would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs H would have declined the cover on either 
occasion had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI in 2007 and in 2010. I think the 
policies could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the 
relevant time. I also think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely she thought 
she was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the 
policies in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman