DRN-3607860
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros following its response 
to his claim on his legal expenses insurance.
All references to Ocaso include its agents.
What happened
Mr M bought his house in May 2015. He took out insurance with Ocaso in August 2016. In 
September 2016 he discovered workmen in his garden digging holes for a new fence. This 
was shortly after the neighbouring property had been sold and he had a new neighbour. The 
holes being dug didnt follow the line of the existing fence but were on his side of the fence. 
Following a discussion between the neighbours a third party came to the properties and 
looked at Mr Ms title deeds. In the third party and Mr Ms opinion these showed not only 
were the new holes trespassing onto Mr Ms land, but the old fence had done so too. The old 
fence appears to have been erected in 2010/11.
Mr M called Ocaso in January 2017. Mr M says Ocaso said it could only cover his legal 
expenses when it was ready to go to court. Mr M instructed a firm of solicitors Ill call S in 
2017. S wrote to Mr Ms neighbour and told her that there appeared to be a trespass. Then 
at the beginning of 2018, the neighbour removed the fence that was there and erected a new 
fence. This fence didnt follow the line of the fence that was removed exactly. Mr M called 
Ocaso in August 2018 to advise he had now established ownership of his land. Ocaso 
appointed one of its panel solicitors to confirm whether the claim had reasonable prospects 
of success. This was confirmed and by March 2020 matters were at the point of issue. At 
this point Mr M wished to exercise his freedom to choose his own solicitor. The panel 
solicitors confirmed at that time the claim continued to enjoy prospects of success. Mr M  
who was frustrated by the panel solicitors lack of responsiveness  wished to instruct S. S 
was sent the Claims Management Report (CMR) to complete. S returned the signed terms in 
June 2020, but it was when the completed CMR was returned to Ocaso in November 2020 
that Ocaso raised concerns about cover for the claim.
Ocaso said Mr Ms policy requires that the date of occurrence arises during the policy period. 
The date of occurrence is defined in the policy as: the date of the event which may lead to a 
claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times from the same cause, the 
date of occurrence is the date of the first of these events. Based on the information from 
Mr M, Ocaso determined the trespass was in place prior to the point Mr M moved into the 
property in 2015, as such, the date of occurrence for the purpose of cover, Ocaso said would 
be the date Mr M moved in. And Ocaso says this is regardless of whether Mr M was aware 
of the trespass or not. As Mr M wasnt insured with Ocaso at this date it withdrew its cover 
for his claim. It offered £300 compensation to him for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him.
The investigator issued an initial view on the case. In it she said while Ocaso is entitled to 
continuously review on-going claims, something as significant as the date of occurrence, is 
one in which she considered shouldve been established and confirmed much sooner than it 
was. The claim start date was August 2018, but the date of occurrence wasnt reviewed and 
confirmed until December 2020. This she believed was a major failing on behalf of Ocaso 
and came at an important stage in Mr Ms claim where legal proceedings were ready to be 
issued. In addition, she didnt consider Ocasos decision concerning the date of occurrence 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She said this because while the date in 
which the fence was first incorrectly positioned (roughly 2010/11) was some years before 
Mr M moved into his property in May 2015 and the policy began in August 2016, his 
knowledge of this was completely unknown and therefore he was unaware of any pre-
existing legal dispute in relation to the fence at the time his policy began.
She thought it was unreasonable for Ocaso to withdraw cover for Mr Ms claim when he was 
not able to make this any earlier due to him being unaware of the original date of occurrence 
and his subsequent right to claim.
She recommended that DAS reinstate cover for Mr Ms claim and provide funding as 
required under his policy. She considered the £300 compensation to be reasonable in 
respect of the customer service he had received and made no further award in this regard. 
Mr M did not accept the investigators view. He said the fence in question that constituted the 
trespass was erected in 2018. He didnt think it was practical to reinstate the cover because 
S had had enough of Ocaso who only paid one tenth of the bill he invoiced them for work 
already done. He couldnt face having to deal with one of Ocasos panel solicitors. He would 
prefer financial compensation and doesnt think £300 is in any way acceptable. 
Ocaso also didnt accept the investigators view. It said Mr M does not have a date of 
knowledge policy but a date of occurrence policy. The policy doesnt cover a dispute that has 
arisen prior to the start of the policy, whether a policyholder knows about it or not. It agreed 
with the investigators view that its failure to identify the correct date of occurrence at the 
outset was significant but didnt think such an error should entitle a policyholder to further 
cover that they are not entitled to.
It also highlighted that it had now discovered that Mr Ms legal cover didnt commence until 
January 2017 and not as it had previously thought August 2016. So, it would indicate there 
was no legal expenses cover available on the policy when Mr. M reported the claim to Ocaso 
in January 2017.
The investigator issued a second view. In it she said she acknowledged that Ocaso had 
already offered £300 compensation but given the significant delay she considered Mr M had 
suffered a higher level of distress and inconvenience than would normally be expected. She 
noted that while Mr M hadnt had the outcome, he intended in respect of his trespass claim, 
he has still had the benefit of legal cover and had the opportunity to pursue his neighbour 
albeit without success. And so, having taken everything into account, she recommended that 
Ocaso increase its compensation offer to £600.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators second view. He said Ocaso wasted two and a half 
years causing him no end of stress. Also because of that wasted two and a half years his 
case became weakened as his neighbours length of occupation was increased (with 
implications for an adverse possession claim). He says the service he did get used up so 
many days of his time in pursuing a response from the panel solicitor that £600 wouldnt 
even pay him the equivalent of minimum wage. He says he is left in a situation where he has 
lost his land, his time, his money (spent on S doing the preliminary work) and the case 
because S has basically said he doesnt want to deal with Ocaso anymore. He says it would 
cost him tens of thousands of pounds to pursue the case now. He maintains the old fence 
has nothing to do with his claim and was only submitted as background information. He 
insists the incident giving rise to his claim  the erection of a new fence- took place in 2018. S also told us that he felt battered by Ocasos incredibly unhelpful and obstructive conduct 
throughout.
Ocaso also didnt accept the investigators second view. It strongly refuted Mr Ms 
allegations about its conduct. It also thought Mr M was misrepresenting the situation, stating 
the dispute relates to a fence erected in 2018. It accepted the claim relates to a fence, but 
also allegations of a historic land grab surrounding the fence and its placement, allegations 
made long before 2018. Furthermore, the claim was brought to Ocaso in January 2017, so it 
does not relate to an issue arising in 2018. It didnt understand the investigators rationale for 
increasing the compensation payable to Mr M.
My first provisional decision
I set out my thoughts in a provisional decision, in it I said:
Following questions, I raised with Ocaso, it has confirmed that it was wrong to say that Mr M 
didnt have LEI cover until 2017. It has now confirmed he had cover from August 2016.
I think to determine the case I need to think about what Mr M could reasonably have known 
when he took out the policy in August 2016. I think I could fairly say the claim was probably 
declined reasonably if I think Mr M could reasonably have known by then that:
the boundary had been moved prior to his purchase; and / or
more generally, there was (or was likely to be) some dispute involving the boundary; 
and / or
that there might be an ongoing trespass onto their land.
Mr M describes what he owns  based on his deeds - as a simple rectangular garden. S told 
Ocaso that the fence that was removed in 2018 zig-zagged more than the fence that 
replaced it. When Mr M was buying his house, I would expect that he would have been sent 
a title plan. I think seeing a plan which shows a simple rectangular garden - when the garden 
he was viewing wasnt a simple rectangle - should have alerted him to the possibility that the 
boundary on the property he was buying had been moved. I think he should therefore have 
made his conveyancer aware of the difference and enquiries should have been made at this 
point.
Even if he didnt notice the issue when he was buying the property, I think he should have 
realised soon after moving in. So, I think by the time he took out his policy with Ocaso, Mr M 
ought to have known that the boundary had been moved prior to his purchase; and more 
generally, there was (or was likely to be) some dispute involving the boundary; and that 
there might be an ongoing trespass onto their land.
From what Ive seen it is not clear whether or not Mr M realised that the fence and the title 
plans didnt match before his insurance policy with Ocaso had been taken out. In an email 
to Ocaso he said: The previous owner/inhabitant was disabled, exceedingly frail and in the 
last months of her life in 2015 when I moved in hence , no approach was made to her to 
correct the fence line I simply made an enquiry in 2017 regarding my policy as to what 
was covered IF any incidents arose as I considered it was a possibility that the new owner 
may not correct her fence line. This suggests to me he did know the fence was in the wrong 
place before his new neighbour moved in. But I dont need to make a finding that he did 
know, I just need to think that he ought to have known that there was an issue regarding the 
boundary before he took out his policy. And as Ive set out above, I think he ought to have 
known and therefore Ocaso wasnt unreasonable to decline his claim.
Im not persuaded that the change of ownership of the neighbouring land means that it would 
no longer be fair to decline his claim. A court may take a different view given that any action would be against a different person as the trespass was by a different person. But we have a 
jurisdiction which requires us to look at what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And here, for the reasons Ive set out above I think Mr M ought to have known 
that he had an issue with his boundary and there might be ongoing trespass prior to his 
taking out the policy with Ocaso and this means I think that Ocaso wasnt unreasonable to 
decline his claim.
Mr M insists the incident giving rise to his claim is the erection of a new fence. I think if this 
new fence represented a significant increase in the area in dispute then I might have agreed 
with him that he should be covered, at least for a claim relating to the increased land grab. 
But S has referred to the new fence as being in a slightly different position to the old fence. 
S told Ocaso that Mr M couldnt tell if the new fence encroached further onto his land (as 
the old fence zig zagged more) but he can say that it is in a slightly different place to the 
previous fence. S also  in the CMR  said the boundary was to be restored to the original 
straight-line position. Thus, showing that Mr M isnt seeking things to be returned to the 2018 
position but to the original boundary. Given the aim of the proceedings was to put things 
back to the title position I dont think I can fairly say that the incident giving rise to the claim 
was the erection of the new fence. Instead I think the erection of the fence was an additional 
incident in an on-going boundary dispute.
I do, however, think that Ocaso did let him down by not declining the claim earlier. The claim 
could have been turned down earlier if the right questions had been asked at the start. It 
could also have been turned down earlier if the claim had been managed without delays. I 
can see that Mr M did have to chase both Ocaso and the panel solicitors on a number of 
occasions. And Mr M expressed his dissatisfaction about delays to Ocaso before his claim 
was declined. I can also see Mr Ms correspondence with Ocaso shows that he was getting 
increasingly frustrated by Ocaso  he describes himself as ground down by the process 
and finding it painful. He also mentions the effect on his health of having the matter hanging 
over him.
As Ocasos panel solicitors are an independent law firm I cannot hold Ocaso responsible for 
any poor service from the panel solicitors, but I would expect Ocaso to intervene to support 
Mr M if there were a lot of delays. I dont think it did enough to help him either by engaging 
with the claim or by ensuring the panel solicitor responded in a timely manner. I think given 
the effect on Mr M the £600 suggested by the investigator seems fair. Mr M says the £600 
suggested wouldnt even compensate the time he has spent at the rate of the minimum 
wage. I dont think I have seen evidence which suggests Mr M would have spent more than 
60 hours on this dispute prior to the claim being declined. But even if I did, we dont look to 
compensate complainants based on a wage they might have earned. Instead we look at the 
effect on the complainant and I think £600 seems reasonable given the evidence I have 
seen for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr M did not accept my provisional decision. He said not only had Ocasos actions wasted 
his time but because of the delays his neighbour could now if he went to court claim adverse 
possession. Therefore, he said he could no longer pursue his neighbour because it was now 
too risky for him or another insurer to take on. He said he had lost his land and the money he 
paid to his solicitor initially.
He also thought that what I said about the fence having previously zig zagging makes no 
sense as the zig zag may have meant that he may have gained land where it went away 
from his property in the same way he lost it where it came toward. So, he disagreed 
completely with the conclusion that he should have known trespass had already occurred.Moreover, he said the insurers covered him knowing the previous fence was not in a correct 
straight line and the point was when the owner went to correct it, according to the survey and 
deeds, they knowingly trespassed. 
Ocaso accepted the provisional decision.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision. In it I said:
Mr M has said that although the fence when he bought the property zig zagged  when it 
should have been straight  because he may have gained as well as lost he shouldnt have 
known there was a trespass when he bought the property. That wasnt the test I set out in 
the provisional decision. In the provisional decision I said that
I think I could fairly say the claim was probably declined reasonably if I think Mr M could 
reasonably have known by then that:
the boundary had been moved prior to his purchase; and / or
more generally, there was (or was likely to be) some dispute involving the boundary; 
and / or
that there might be an ongoing trespass onto their land.
As the fence zig zagged when it should have been straight, I think Mr M knew or ought to 
have known enough that he should have made enquiries when he was buying his house. 
And even if he didnt notice the issue when he was buying the house, I think he should have 
realised soon after moving in. So, I think by the time he took out his policy with Ocaso, Mr M 
ought to have known that the boundary had been moved prior to his purchase; and more 
generally, there was (or was likely to be) some dispute involving the boundary; and that 
there might be an ongoing trespass onto their land. The fact that where the fence was may 
have resulted in him gaining some land and losing other bits isnt really relevant because the 
zig zag should have put him on notice that there might be a problem.
Therefore, I think it was reasonable for Ocaso to decline the claim. But I still think it took too 
long to tell him that it would decline the claim.
Mr M feels that due to the time that has elapsed  which he thinks means that his neighbour 
could claim adverse possession  his case is weaker. He says: I cannot pursue it without 
massive risk and indeed where other insurers wouldn't touch it with a bargepole now 
adverse possession has been enabled as an argument. 
So, I need to consider what I think would have happened if Mr M had discovered that he 
wasnt covered by Ocaso in a more-timely manner. I think it is most likely that he would have 
taken advice from a solicitor and probably had his solicitor write to his neighbour to try to 
resolve things. As I think he would have obtained legal help even if Ocaso had told him very 
early on that he wasnt covered I cant say Mr M has suffered any loss due to him paying for 
the preliminary legal work. 
I think if he had taken legal advice - in the knowledge he didnt have insurance - he would 
have concluded he didnt want to pursue the litigation in the circumstances of him either 
having to self-fund the costs or pay for an after the event policy (assuming he could get one). 
I say this for two reasons. 
First, disputes involving boundaries can be very expensive. Mr M has told us that he doesnt 
have the money to pay for the costs of going to court. He also strikes me as a sensible and 
pragmatic man and the land in question doesnt seem to be so significant that I think it is likely Mr M would have taken the risk even if he had the money. I dont think the land is so 
significant because Mr M was happy to buy the property in 2015 and S has said that the 
fence in 2018 was positioned such that Mr M couldnt tell if the new fence encroached 
further onto his land. In addition, when he came to this service, he said that he wanted 
compensation of £10,000 and this was to cover him for his time, the stress he was caused 
and the value of the land he thinks he has lost. He did not want an order that Ocaso be 
made to pay his legal costs to pursue the action. All of this together suggests to me he would 
not have pursued his dispute regarding the fences beyond preliminary legal advice if he 
knew Ocaso wouldnt cover him. 
Secondly, although Mr M says that he cant pursue the claim now because of the potential 
adverse possession claim that doesnt seem right to me. S said that he was confident that 
any adverse possession claim could be rebutted. Mr M has previously described the adverse 
possession claim as being weak which suggests to me that his decision not to pursue the 
case when his claim was declined by Ocaso wasnt because of the adverse possession 
claim risk. It also seems likely given the change of ownership of the properties (and the fact 
the previous owner of the neighbouring property has died) that Mr Ms neighbour wouldnt be 
able to provide the necessary evidence to demonstrate ten years of adverse possession. So, 
I dont think the adverse possession claim is the real reason Mr M isnt pursuing the claim. I 
think he isnt pursuing it because he was only interested in pursuing the claim if Ocaso was 
paying the costs.
Therefore as I think if Ocaso had told him sooner that he wasnt covered, he would have 
taken advice and then concluded he didnt want to pursue litigation against his neighbour, I 
dont agree that he has lost out financially as a result of the delay.
I do, however, still think he has reason to feel let down by the delays. And that the £600 I set 
out in my provisional decision remains fair compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Responses to my second provisional decision
Ocaso accepted my second provisional decision. Mr M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have asked me to consider anything further following my second provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change my mind. I therefore confirm it here now.
Putting things right
I think Ocaso should pay Mr M £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by its 
handling of his claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros pay 
Mr M £600.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman