DRN-3042788
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him through a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
On 29 December 2019 Mr C acquired a second-hand car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. The car was registered on 25 July 2011, which means it was about 
eight years and five months old at the point of supply. The price of the car was £6,999 and it 
had travelled 81,563 miles. Mr C put down a deposit of £100 which meant that the credit 
agreement was for £6,899 payable over 61 months.
In April 2020 Mr C says he contacted the dealer to report an engine management light (EML) 
on the dashboard and issues with the gearbox of his car. He says it wasnt changing gear 
properly and felt sluggish.
Mr C brought the car into the dealer in June 2020 and again in July 2020. The car was with 
the dealer for over three weeks in total, however the dealer explained that they couldnt find 
any mechanical faults with the car despite carrying out extensive road tests. Mr C says the 
dealer also told him that theyd serviced the gear box and changed the oil, the filter and 
exhaust sensor.
Mr C says the problems persisted, so in July 2020 he raised a complaint to BMF. As the 
dealer hadnt identified any mechanical issues, BMF asked Mr C to obtain an independent 
inspection to assist with establishing liability.
In August 2020 Mr C confirmed that he had arranged for a mechanic to carry out an 
inspection of his car. The mechanic identified nine transmission related fault codes. The 
mechanic also found there to be a significant shortage of transmission fluid.
Having received the details from Mr C, BMF initially instructed the dealer to carry out a 
further inspection to look into the faults identified, however the dealer was reluctant to do so 
as it said it hadnt found any faults. And Mr C was reluctant to allow the dealer to carry out
another inspection on his car. So, BMF decided to arrange an independent inspection with a 
separate vehicle inspection specialist.
Prior to the independent inspection, Mr C arranged for the transmission fluid to be topped up 
by the mechanics who had looked at the car. Mr C explained that the independent inspector, 
arranged by BMF, had given his permission for the transmission fluid to be topped up prior to 
their check. Despite advising Mr C that the inspector was not in a position to authorise the 
fluid refill, BMF explained that should the second independent check confirm liability, BMF 
would cover the costs incurred.
On 15 September 2020 the second independent inspection report was provided. The report 
concluded that the car was not fit for purpose as the transmission was not operating 
anywhere close to the manufacturers specifications. The report also advised that the 
problem with the transmission was progressive in-service age-related general wear and tear 
and so was unlikely to have been present at the point of supply.
On 28 September 2020 BMF provided their final response letter (FRL) to Mr Cs complaint. 
based on the conclusions of the second report, BMF didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with BMFs response, Mr C brought his complaint to us here. One of our 
investigators looked into his concerns and decided to uphold his complaint on the basis that 
the car provided was not reasonably durable and so wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to him.
BMF disputed the investigators view. The supplying dealer provided evidence of an 
inspection carried out prior to supply which advised the operation of the gearbox was 
considered okay. The dealer also challenged the credibility of the inspection that Mr C 
arranged through a mechanic. So, BMF requested that the complaint is reviewed by an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
In August 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider having been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMF is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history.
It isnt in dispute here that the car had a fault with it. But for clarity, from the information 
provided its also clear to me that there is a fault with the transmission of the car. This is 
apparent from the information provided by the mechanic and the independent inspection 
report arranged by BMF. Having considered the car has a fault, Ive had to consider whether 
it was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr C.Ive looked into the lifespan of automatic transmissions. From what Ive seen, the life of 
automatic transmissions can vary, depending on different things, for example maintenance 
and driving styles; and its not uncommon that they may need to be replaced throughout a 
cars life. And I dont think its unreasonable that a transmission would need replacing on a 
car of similar age and mileage to Mr Cs.
The dealer has provided sales documentation showing the checks that were carried out on 
the car before it was supplied to Mr C. The checks included an assured report from a vehicle 
inspection agency (VIA). The front cover of the report provided by the dealer has a VIA 
invoice detailing the cars make, model and registration along with the invoice date of 
December 2019. So, Im satisfied that the report was in reference to the car that was 
supplied to Mr C. The report shows that the VIA checks, which included tests on gear 
selection, clutch, automatic take up and a drive test were recorded as ok which suggests no 
issues were identified.
In addition to this the conclusion of the report, arranged by BMF, included the following 
comments:
the symptoms are easily noticeable and, in our opinion, would have been easily 
detectable even to the layperson without any mechanical knowledge at the collection 
point of the vehicle, hence the reason we believe the current symptoms have 
developed after the point of sale; and
the symptoms manifested at the time of our inspection are attributable to in service 
wear & tear which would not be considered unusual or untoward for a vehicle of this 
age & reported mileage.
The report arranged by BMF was carried out by a professional vehicle inspection company. 
So, having considered this I have no reason to challenge the credibility of the information or 
findings provided.
With that being the case, Im minded to say that the comments in the second report together 
with the other evidence, like the VIA assured report and the age and mileage of the car, 
points towards the car being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C.
I have considered that our investigator said the car wasnt reasonably durable when it was 
supplied. When Mr C entered into the agreement the car was supplied with 81,500 miles and 
at the point of the second report, hed driven around 6,000 additional miles. So, at that point 
the car had a total of around 87,500 miles and was over nine years old.
Within its conclusion the second report also advised:
Progressive in-service age-related general wear and tear is the cause, and taking into 
account the vehicles age and reported mileage in our opinion it would not be considered 
unusual to have a transmission repaired on a vehicle that has covered almost 90,000 miles 
and in our opinion the vehicle durability was not affected at the point of purchase.
On balance I dont think its unreasonable that problems were starting to occur with the 
transmission. So, from the evidence provided Im satisfied that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. So, I wont be instructing BMF to do anything in relation 
to this complaint.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. However, neither party has responded 
to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. So, my final decision is the same. 
My final decision
Having considered all the information, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman