DRN-3983591
The complaint
Mrs L complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to properly service her boiler which 
led to it breaking down and having to be replaced. 
What happened
Mrs L took out a British Gas home care insurance policy in November 2014. The policy 
provides central heating cover, plumbing and drains cover, home electrical cover, and a gas 
safety certificate. The policy includes an annual boiler service.  
After the annual service in October 2022 the boiler was deemed unsafe. Mrs L says she was 
surprised by the assessment of the boiler so called an independent engineer to inspect it. 
The engineer said the boiler was unsafe and not repairable. The engineer also told Mrs L the 
boiler was not in a good condition and didnt look as though it had been serviced for years. 
Mrs L called British Gas in November 2022 and cancelled the contract. She told British Gas 
why she was cancelling the contract and submitted a formal complaint with supporting 
documents. 
Mrs L says she hadnt heard from British Gas by the beginning of December so she called 
them. She waited an hour on the call and spoke to someone who told Mrs L to resubmit the 
documents she previously provided. She was told someone from the complaints team would 
contact her within 48 hours. But no one did. 
Mrs L says she has copies of British Gas reports of the boiler which confirm it was safe. She 
says her own engineer said the deterioration in the internal condition of the boiler was too 
extensive to have occurred over the course of a single year but was a long-standing deep 
corrosion. 
Mrs L says she paid for a service she doesnt think she received. And she has given British 
Gas ample opportunity to respond to her complaint. British Gas issued its final response in 
February 2023. It said when its engineer initially attended the boiler in 2015 it provided Mrs L 
with a quote for a new boiler but it was declined. British Gas said it had been out several 
times and repaired or replaced parts to ensure the boiler was safe to use. It also carried out 
an annual service. British Gas said in 2019 Mrs L was advised the boiler was in bad 
condition but was safe to use. In 2022 British Gas deemed the boiler unsafe. British Gas 
said its technical team reviewed Mrs Ls engineers report. They advised the boiler was in 
poor condition however up until the most recent safety certificate it was safe to use. British 
Gas did accept it should have contacted Mrs L when it said it would regarding her complaint, 
and that there was delay in dealing with the complaint. And so it paid Mrs L £70 by way of an 
apology. 
Mrs L remained dissatisfied and so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for Mrs L. She said she hadnt seen any evidence the boiler 
hadnt been serviced properly, and British Gas told Mrs L the boiler was in poor condition 
and needed to be replaced. And on that basis she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators view of the claim. She said she didnt think the 
boiler was safe given the extent of corrosion and its long-standing nature. So the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. So I dont require British Gas to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Where information Ive got is incomplete or unavailable, as it is here, I must base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs L has gone to some trouble to provide 
our service with some very detailed submissions; including specific points about the service 
she received, and a report from an independent engineer who inspected the boiler. I want to 
assure her that Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope shell understand if I dont address 
every comment shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key 
to the complaint. 
Its clear Mrs L feels very strongly that her complaint should be upheld. As a longstanding 
customer I recognise that she feels let down by the service she has received. But while I can 
understand Mrs Ls frustration, our service is impartial. We dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
My role here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake or treated Mrs L 
unfairly. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy. I need to consider these because 
the policy terms detail what was agreed between Mrs L and British Gas when the policy was 
purchased. And to see whether British Gas acted reasonably I need to decide whether it 
acted in line with what was agreed in relation to annual service appointments. 
The terms and conditions say that an annual service is, a check in each period of 
agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central heating, and ventilation is 
working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulation.  And based on the evidence 
provided by British Gas I can see the boiler was serviced regularly in line with the terms of 
the policy.
The insurance policy is to service annually and keep the boiler working safely. Its not a 
maintenance contract and doesnt include any improvements or upgrades.  Mrs L thinks 
British Gas should have told her about the corrosion previously, but I think given the boiler 
was deemed safe and the relevant certificates were issued I think British Gas acted as I 
would have expected. 
Mrs L provided a report and some photographs taken by her own contractor which says the 
boiler hasnt been serviced properly for some time. The contractor inspected the boiler after 
British Gas deemed it unsafe. The contractors comments have been put to British Gas who 
referred them to its technical team. The technical team were satisfied British Gas had 
attended the property each year, carried out a service, carried out necessary repairs, and 
not left the tenant or landlord at risk. The technical team also said it recommended a new 
boiler in 2015 and in 2019 it advised the boiler was in bad condition. So I think Mrs L would 
have been aware the boiler had some issues prior to it being deemed unsafe in 2022. British 
Gas are entitled to rely on the opinion of its experts when dealing with claims of this nature. 
So I cant say it has done anything wrong here. Mrs L doesnt think the boiler was actually safe from 2019 onwards. But at that stage she 
was told it was in bad condition. Further the evidence provided by Mrs L is based on an 
inspection after the boiler was deemed unsafe. And whilst I dont underestimate the 
experience of Mrs Ls contractor the evidence from British Gas is contemporaneous and 
provides details of the repairs to the boiler over a number of years. The corrosion being 
present isnt in dispute. But British Gas have said the boiler was safe to use until 2022 when 
it was no longer safe. And so Im satisfied British Gas acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Mrs L wants British Gas to refund her premiums, contribute to the cost of the new boiler and 
pay compensation of £5,000. But since she has had the benefit of the policy including the 
annual service and the repairs, I dont think its fair to ask British Gas to refund those 
premiums. 
As to the payment towards the new boiler Ive thought about what Mrs L has said about 
British Gas not servicing her boiler properly. But Im not an expert. So I cant say the boiler 
stopped working as a result of poor servicing as opposed to  for example, its age. So I dont 
think its fair for me to say British Gas should contribute to the cost of Mrs Ls new boiler. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint about British Gas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman