DRN-2904561
The complaint
Mr B complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat irresponsibly gave him loans he 
couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Cashfloat gave Mr B four loans as follows: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Repayment
115/05/2019 26/07/2019 3 £300.00 £134.36
205/08/2019 12/08/2019 2 £250.00 £156.59
328/08/2019 03/12/2019 4 £500.00 £198.19
429/12/2019 21/08/2020 4 £400.00 £191.79
Mr B said that in a short space of time he was approved for several Cashfloat loans which he 
felt should not have been given to him and as a result he is now suffering financially.
Our adjudicator felt that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Cashfloat to provide 
loans 1-3 to Mr B, but that loan 4 shouldnt have been lent. Our adjudicator set out the steps 
she thought Cashfloat should take to put things right for Mr B. 
Cashfloat didnt accept our adjudicators view about upholding loan 4. In summary it said:
Mr Bs repayments for loan 4 were less per month than for loan 3, which he had 
repaid earlier than scheduled.
The loan amount for loan 4 was £100 less than loan 3, showing no signs of 
escalating debt.
There was nothing in the information that Mr B provided that gave cause for concern 
to the underwriters.
Short-term loans are quick and convenient and as long as the borrowing is affordable 
and sustainable (and at this early stage there was no cause for concern) there should 
be no problem with borrowing additional funds.
Mr B had already proven to be good credit risk and granting a fourth loan should be 
perfectly acceptable when a consumer has adequate income to cover repayments.
Mr B had a disposable income of £357 per month to cover a repayment of £191.
This left more than an adequate buffer for affordability and the level of checks carried 
out at this early stage was proportionate.
Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation not to uphold loan 3. He has asked 
me to take into account that this was his biggest loan, it had the highest repayment amount 
and it was taken out within the same month that he had paid loan 2 early to try and save 
interest. He told us he had other loans from other lenders at the time he took out loan 3.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include, amongst other things:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans - not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.As far as I can see, Mr B is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1 and 2 except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
Cashfloat has told us about the checks it did before lending loan 3 to Mr B. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Cashfloat what he normally spent each month. And 
Cashfloat also carried out checks on Mr Bs credit record. I havent seen the results of those 
checks  Cashfloat told us it no longer has access to the reports and it relied on metrics 
worked out by a credit reference agency. But Cashfloat said that there were no debt 
management issues flagged up and nothing to suggest Mr B was in any payment 
arrangements with his creditors. So it felt that its checks were proportionate in all the 
circumstances and that it had identified nothing to make it think that loan 3 wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr B.
Thinking about loan 3, it appears that the information Cashfloat gathered about Mr Bs 
income and expenditure suggested the loan repayments shouldnt be a problem for Mr B  
at least when looking at the figures used to assess affordability. 
But Cashfloat was aware that loan 3 was twice the amount of the loan Mr B had repaid just a 
few weeks earlier. It had also gathered information from Mr B suggesting that he was 
already repaying £310 towards other credit. And with loan 3, Cashfloat could see that his 
credit expenditure in total was potentially going to be a significant proportion (almost a third 
or so) of Mr Bs take home pay.
Cashfloat cant show me exactly what credit checks it did or what those checks actually 
showed  so Ive thought about what I think proportionate checks would probably have 
revealed.
If Cashfloat had made the enquiries that I think were proportionate in this instance, I think its 
likely it wouldve found out that Mr B was regularly using at least two other providers of 
expensive loans. He had also taken out a large loan with a third lender shortly before taking 
out loan 3 with Cashfloat  although I think its unlikely that would have shown up on credit 
checks around the time Mr B was applying for loan 3 as it can often take 6-8 weeks for 
information to be reported by a lender and then added to someones credit file. I also 
understand that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference 
agencies. 
So a lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect 
to see) on their own credit file. This makes me think that its not fair to expect that Cashfloat 
wouldve found out about this large loan from its credit checks  and I think it probably didnt 
know about it if Mr B didnt mention it (and I cant see that he did.) 
Although I think Cashfloat shouldve found out about the other two lenders Mr B was making 
repayments to when he applied for loan 3, I dont think this information wouldve been 
sufficient to have prompted a responsible lender to decline his application for loan 3. It 
seems that Mr B had told Cashfloat he was making loan repayments of £160 and paying 
£150 towards other credit commitments  so I think that wouldve seemed a reasonable 
amount given what hed said about his use of credit. And I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr B for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing loan 3.
Ive also seen information that shows Mr B was spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be online gambling transactions at that time. And if Cashfloat had known about 
that spending I think it wouldve likely decided that it shouldnt lend to Mr B. But I cant see 
that Mr B told Cashfloat about his spending on gambling. Or that there was any reason at that stage why Cashfloat shouldve been prompted to verify what Mr B had said (or omitted 
to say) about his spending. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 3. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr B but I hope that setting out the reasons as I've done helps explain why 
I think our adjudicator reached the correct outcome on this loan. 
In coming to my decision about loan 4, Ive taken carefully into account everything Cashfloat 
said in response to our adjudicators view. But I agree with our adjudicator that if Cashfloat 
had done proportionate checking when Mr B was applying for loan 4, it wouldve realised 
that Mr B was regularly using short term loans. By this time Mr B was already borrowing from 
around six other short term lenders and providers of high cost loans as well. So although its 
correct for Cashfloat to say that loan 4 was for less money than loan 3 this makes no 
difference to my view. A proportionate check would likely have shown that Mr B was 
increasing his use of credit overall and there were clear indications that he had become 
over-reliant on this sort of expensive credit and he was using it to supplement his 
income.I think in these circumstances, Cashfloat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr B 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan and it shouldnt have provided loan 4 to 
Mr B.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, as things stand, Im planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint 
about loan 4 only.
Ive thought about whether Cashfloat acted in any other way towards Mr B that wasnt fair 
and reasonable. When he first brought his complaint to us, Mr B mentioned that when he 
was struggling to repay his loan there was persistent pressure and he felt pressurised to 
pay. 
But he hasnt provided any further information about this and it appears that a mutually 
agreed repayment plan was set up. So, I dont feel Ive seen enough to make me think that it 
would be fair to award any redress beyond what I've said Cashfloat should pay for providing 
loan 4 to Mr B when it was unfair and irresponsible to do so.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B is happy with what I've said in my provisional decision. 
Cashfloat hasnt commented further and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has had to pay interest (and possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been 
provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. 
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat should do the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr B the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries Cashfloat has recorded on Mr Bs credit file for loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat to take the steps 
I've set out above to put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman