DRN-3554719
The complaint
Mr B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA charged him interest on his account.
What happened
Mr B says he used his PayPal credit card account to make three purchases. He says he had 
set up a direct debit to repay the balance on the account every month but says the direct 
debit failed and so set it up again. Mr B says he was charged interest by PayPal as the 
payment wasnt taken. He says the interest was just under £3 but says the late payment has 
impacted his credit file. Mr B would like his credit file amended, the interest refunded and 
compensation for what took place.
PayPal doesnt accept it made a mistake and says a payment was due on 5 July 2021. It 
says Mr B updated his bank and direct debit information on 3 July 2021. PayPal says it takes 
between three and five days to update direct debit details and Mr B hadnt allowed enough 
time for the payment to be taken on 5 July 2021 which was his banks responsibility to set 
up. It says it e-mailed Mr B on 6 July 2021 to tell him the payment had been missed and 
correctly charged interest which it has now agreed to waive. It also says it hasnt reported 
any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and initially the investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr B had been told by PayPal the date he needed to repay the account balance and 
thought it had told him it would take a few days to set up the new direct debit.
Mr B didnt accept that view and provided the investigator with an e-mail dated 20 June 2021 
which said PayPal would debit Mr Bs account on 5 July 2021. The investigator re-
considered his view and thought that provided evidence Mr B had tried to set up a new direct 
debit well before 5 July 2021 and could reasonably assume from that e-mail the payment 
would be taken. He recommended PayPal pay Mr B £100 compensation for his trouble and 
upset.
PayPal doesnt accept that view and says the e-mail was automatically sent on 20 June 
2021 when the account became active again and says Mr B updated his account on 3 July 
2021 which didnt allow his bank time to make the payment.
My provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that I didnt 
uphold this complaint.
I looked carefully at PayPals records and at Mr Bs account statement. I didnt think there 
can be any doubt that Mr B was required to make a payment by 5 July 2021. I appreciated 
Mr B says he changed the direct debit details some time prior to 5 July 2021 and updated 
the details again on 3 July 2021 when he realised that the changes hadnt been made. But I 
said I had only seen a record of the direct debit change on 3 July 2021 and was satisfied on 
balance that the e-mail Mr B received from PayPal on 20 June 2021 was a generic e-mail 
generated by Mr B using the account again.
I thought that as Mr B made the changes to his account on 3 July 2021 that didnt leave 
sufficient time for those changes to update the direct debit information before 5 July 2021 the 
payment date. I was satisfied that PayPal made that clear to Mr B on 3 July 2021, that a new 
direct debit takes between three and five days to set up and be active. So, I thought that 
even if Mr B had set up the direct debit before 3 July 2021 that he ought reasonably to have 
known on 3 July 2021 that the payment would not be made on 5 July 2021. And in those 
circumstances, I said I would have expected Mr B to have made alternative arrangements to 
make sure the payment was made.
I was satisfied that PayPal was entitled to charge interest when the payment wasnt made by 
the required date and hadnt acted unfairly or made a mistake by doing so. In any event I 
saw that PayPal has waived the interest payment. I said I had not seen any evidence of any 
adverse information being recorded on Mr Bs credit file. I could see PayPal says it hasnt 
recorded any such information and said no doubt Mr B could provide a copy of his credit file 
if he wishes which I would review before my final decision.
Overall my provisional view was that PayPal fairly told Mr B that the direct debit he set up on 
3 July 2021 would take between three and five days to take a payment which ought to have 
warned Mr B that a payment wouldnt be taken by that method two days later. I didnt think 
PayPal should fairly pay compensation in circumstances where I didnt think it misled Mr B or 
acted unfairly. I said I will of course look at any further information Mr B may which to 
provide us with such us evidence of the direct debit being set up in or around June 2021 and 
his credit file. I also hoped PayPal will confirm if it has any record of a direct debit being set 
up at or around that time and before 3 July 2021.
PayPal accepts my provisional decision but hasnt provided any evidence on a record of the 
direct debit being set up before 3 July 2021.
Mr B doesnt accept my view and in summary says he accepts the letter of 20 June 2021 
was system generated but says it was in response to him setting up the new direct debit. He 
maintains that letter said the direct debit would be taken on 5 July 2021 and says he cant 
see what he could have done differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons.
I made clear that I was satisfied that PayPals letter of 20 June 2021 was system generated 
by Mr B using the account again and not in response to Mr B changing his direct debit 
details. I am satisfied that the only record that either side has provided about a change of 
direct debit instructions was PayPals records of 3 July 2021 which clearly show a new bank 
being added by Mr B.
I also made clear in my provisional decision that even if Mr B did set up a direct debit before 
3 July 2021 then it ought to have been reasonably clear to him, as PayPal told him, that the 
new direct debit would not take the payment on 5 July 2021. I appreciate Mr B questions 
what he could do differently but I think he ought to have been aware on 3 July 2021 that the 
direct debit would not be taken on 5 July 2021 and that he ought to have made alternative 
arrangements for the payment which was his responsibility. I think regardless what the letter 
of 20 June 2021 said, it was made clear on 3 July 2021 the payment would not be taken by 
direct debit.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman