DRN-4048762
The complaint
Mr M complains that his bank, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has refused 
to refund the money he has lost following him falling victim to a scam. 
Mr M is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr M 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr M was contacted via telephone by a business called Make the Coin (X). X 
persuaded Mr M to make investments with it via the cryptocurrency exchanges Binance and 
Moonpay.
Mr Ms bank statements show he made the following payments in relation to the scam from 
his account with Halifax:
Date Merchant Amount Payment method
5 February 2021 Moonpay £50 Debit Card
15 February 2021 Moonpay £493.50 Transfer
17 February 2021 Moonpay £4,725 Transfer
25 February 2021 Binance £2,000 Debit Card
17 March 2021 Binance £5,000 Debit Card
23 June 2021 Binance £5,000 Debit Card
23 June 2021 Binance £5,000 Debit Card
25 November 2021 Binance £50 Debit Card
25 November 2021 Binance £300 Debit Card
25 February 2021 Binance £2,000 Debit Card
After seeing his investment make a profit Mr M decided to withdraw some funds. But X told 
Mr M he would have to make further payments first, which he did. However, after making the 
further payments Mr Ms funds were not released to him, and he was no longer able to 
contact X. It was clear that Mr M had fallen victim to a scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed, he said Halifax should have done more to protect him from the scam.
As Mr M didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr M has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr M and Halifax sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
Halifax should refund the funds Mr M lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr M made
When payments are made by card the only recovery option Halifax has is to request a 
chargeback. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr M was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr M didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges 
(Binance and Moonpay). This is important because Halifax was only able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchants he paid (Binance and Moonpay), not another party 
(such as X).
The service provided by Binance and Moonpay would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Binance and Moonpay 
provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr M paid. As Binance and 
Moonpay provided the requested service to Mr M any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr M has argued that the payments he made into the scam should have been covered under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
But the CRM code only applies when domestic payments (as the result of a scam) are sent 
to another person. Here Mr M sent payments to an account held in his own name. And the 
scam occurred when his funds were moved from that account to the scammer. So, Im 
satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
With the above in mind, I dont think Halifax had any recovery options available to it for the 
payments Mr M made.
Should Halifax have reasonably prevented the payments Mr M made?
It has been accepted that Mr M authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Halifax, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr M is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Halifax should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
The payments Mr M made into the scam were all for a relatively low amounts to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. It was also not unusual for Mr M to make larger transfers from 
his account, some of which were made on the same day. So, I dont think the payments Mr M made into the scam would have appeared uncharacteristic compared to his usual 
spending habits.
With the above in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable that Halifaxs fraud prevention 
systems were not triggered, and that Halifax didnt step in to prevent the scam taking place. 
Halifax is therefore not responsible for Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman