DRN-2375020
The complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 1999. In 2005, he replaced it with a new 
policy. Both policies were paid for with regular monthly premiums, which did not attract 
interest. They covered Mr L in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr L and Halifax a provisional decision on 27 October 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr Ls 1999 mortgage application had a section for PPI. It only recommended it was 
something he thought about, and it offered him more details if hed like. There was a box 
Mr L could sign if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. Mr L signed 
for PPI, separately to signing the application as a whole to confirm his choices. He was given 
mortgage quotations which set out the cost of the PPI if he chose it. And it was set out as a 
separate cost to the mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. Mr L 
also signed and submitted a form specifically for PPI, where hed selected his cover and 
checked he was eligible. 
Halifax doesnt still have all the relevant documents from the 2005 sale, which is 
understandable given the time thats passed and that they were only supposed to hold onto 
the documents for much less than 15 years. But from what Ive seen of their sales process 
for that type of policy around that time, the PPI wouldve been set out as optional, and in 
order to get it Mr L would need to have actively chosen it. And again, its cost was set out as 
a separate cost to the lending itself. According to the notes of the sale, Mr L chose PPI but 
turned down other insurances he was recommended, so he was aware that they were only 
recommendations and not requirements. He was then sent a welcome letter going over the 
advice and reminding him he was free to cancel the PPI if he changed his mind.
Mr L pointed out that his mortgage offer said that a Home Plan was compulsory, and 
I understand why he thought to point it out. But the Home Plan was not PPI, nor a similar 
product, and Im afraid its not relevant to this case.
From the evidence I have, it looks like the PPI was displayed as an optional extra, and Mr L 
chose it in both sales. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that he was misled into 
having PPI, nor any wider problems with Halifaxs sales processes from the time. So I think 
its most likely that Halifax made Mr L aware he had a choice about buying each policy, and 
that he chose to take them.
Halifax recommended the PPI policies to Mr L, so it had to check they were right for him. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think they were. For 
example, it looks like Mr L was eligible for cover and wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and covered him 
for much longer, and he otherwise had only limited benefits in case he lost his job. Mr L had 
other work benefits, like life cover and private medical insurance, but those were for very 
different things to the PPI and werent relevant here. I also understand his parents wouldve 
been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. 
And this mortgage was Mr Ls sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for 
Halifax to recommend he rely on other individuals to pay it.
Mr Ls employer offered him a potential ill health retirement once his 6 months sick pay ran 
out. His documents dont detail how this would work. But normally, one could only retire this 
way if the illness or injury prevented one from working permanently, which is rare. Whereas 
if, for example, Mr L was too ill to work for a year, but not permanently, then his sick pay 
wouldve run out just half way in, but hed still have been unable to take his early retirement. 
In that kind of situation, he wouldve been at serious risk of losing his home if he hadnt had 
PPI. Further, the pension benefit wouldve normally paid out at a significantly lower rate than 
his salary at the time  it wouldnt normally be equivalent to full cover in any case. So it still 
looks like PPI wouldve been good for shoring up the gaps in Mr Ls cover. Of course, if Mr L 
can provide further documents for the ill health retirement benefit then Im happy to 
reconsider this point.
Lastly, I will point out that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. So 
there was no guarantee that Mr L would have the same employment situation or benefits in 
the many years to come. And ultimately, if Mr L fell behind on his mortgage payments he 
couldve lost his home. So overall, it seems the PPI policies could have really been useful for 
Mr L in protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Halifax gave Mr L about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr L chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. And as I explained above, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the main things the policies 
didnt cover, and they couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policies were competitively priced given how much they would pay out in a claim. And the 
policies were paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr L could cancel each one at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off 
taking out either policy.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 November 2020. But neither Mr L nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think these policies were mis-
sold.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman