DRN-4332596
The complaint
Mr D has complained about West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance. He isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to West Bay includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D was involved in a minor motoring incident while driving abroad which he told his broker 
about, but this was as notification only as his vehicle hadnt sustained any damage. So, 
when he found out that a claim had been registered against his policy he complained to 
West Bay. 
When West Bay looked into Mr Ds claim it acknowledged it didnt notify Mr D that the other 
driver had made a claim as it should have done and offered £200 by way of compensation 
for its error. But it explained that it was bound to deal with the claim from the third party. As 
Mr D still wasnt happy, believing that the third party hadnt advanced a claim, he complained 
to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D but didnt uphold his complaint. He accepted that 
West Bay should have notified Mr D about the claim from the other driver and allowed Mr D 
chance to respond fully at an earlier stage, but he thought its offer of £200 compensation for 
the error was fair. But, he was satisfied West Bay had to consider the other drivers claim.
As Mr D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration here as he only told West Bay about the incident for 
information only purposes and he wasnt making a claim as I understand there wasnt any 
damage to his vehicle. And he has ended up with an open claim marked against him as the 
claim hasnt been finalised or fault fully established yet. However, even though I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr D, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D fully accepts he was involved in a minor motoring accident while driving abroad which 
he feels wasnt his fault. And he called his broker to tell them about the incident for 
notification only purposes as the damage caused to his vehicle was minor. But he feels 
West Bay (who are ultimately responsible for any claim under the policy) have accidently or 
deliberately opened a claim against his policy when the other driver hasnt made a claim. 
Mr D has clearly found all of this frustrating and difficult as he wasnt advancing a claim. And 
he was at the scene when the incident happened and knows full well what did or didnt 
happen. However, Mr D isnt questioning, at this stage, whether he should be held liable for 
the incident or not he just feels the other side didnt make a claim against him. 
I know Mr D feels there is some doubt about the other side reporting the incident, but Ive 
seen sufficient information to show that West Bay was contacted by the third party. And 
West Bay would have no reason to open a claim (fault or non-fault) against Mr D if a claim 
wasnt made by the other side. It wouldnt look to incur costs by considering and 
investigating a claim against the policy if there wasnt a claim as commercially this wouldnt 
make sense.
Mr D isnt looking to dispute whether he is held at fault or non-fault for the claim at this time 
and this might be something he wants to consider at a later stage depending on how liability 
is finally settled. But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this Service to 
decide liability, which is a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have 
acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ultimately, the fact there was a minor accident while Mr D was driving abroad, and details 
were exchanged at the scene isnt in dispute. I know Mr D feels the other side hasnt made a 
claim, but Ive seen sufficient information, on balance, to show that the other side has 
advanced a claim here. And West Bay, belatedly, are looking to defend Mr D and Ill leave 
Mr D to cooperate with West Bay and provide the necessary detail in the hope that it is able 
to defend the claim on his behalf. 
Finally, I know Mr D has been inconvenienced by all of this and there was a delay in 
notifying him that the other side had made a claim against his policy, but I feel West Bays 
offer of compensation for this feels fair. There is always a fair degree of inconvenience 
advancing insurance claims and most of this stems from the accident and the other side 
looking to advance a claim against Mr Ds policy.
Given all of this I cant conclude that West Bay has acted unreasonably here. I say this as 
there clearly was a minor accident involving Mr D and the other driver and Ive seen 
sufficient evidence that the third party has advanced a claim against his policy which West 
Bay has to consider. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman