DRN-4315872
The complaint
Mrs L complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has turned down an incapacity claim she 
made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events. 
Mrs L was insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. The 
policy includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In September 2021, Mrs L was signed-off work. She said shed been from suffering from 
symptoms since November 2020, which at that point a GP had considered to be work-
related stress. Mrs L said shed therefore described her symptoms as work-related stress 
when she asked for a sick note, which was accordingly issued. Mrs L continued to be 
signed-off work, with work-related stress, alongside anxiety and depression. She also 
underwent treatment with Ms D, a psychologist, who felt Mrs L had generalised anxiety 
disorder and depression. So subsequent fit notes signed Mrs L off with anxiety and 
depression. Mrs Ls employer made an incapacity claim on the policy.
HSBC Life assessed Mr Ls claim. It reviewed evidence from Mrs Ls GP, along with 
evidence from Ms D. It went on to appoint an independent medical examiner who Ill call Mr 
W. Mr W is a consultant occupational health physician. Mr W concluded that Mrs L was 
suffering from work-related stress. So HSBC Life didnt think there was sufficient medical 
evidence to show that Mrs L was suffering from a mental illness which was significantly 
affecting her level of function. Therefore, HSBC Life concluded that Mrs L hadnt met the 
policy definition of incapacity for the whole of the deferred period and so it turned down the 
claim.
Mrs L was unhappy with HSBC Lifes decision and so she asked us to look into her 
complaint. She felt Mr W had misrepresented her medical situation and she told us that 
HSBC Life hadnt provided her with a copy of the policy terms.  
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
contract of insurance was between Mrs Ls employer and HSBC Life. There was no direct 
contract between the insurer and Mrs L. So she didnt think HSBC Life had needed to 
provide Mrs L with a copy of the policy terms and conditions. She explained that HSBC Life 
wasnt responsible for any dispute between Mrs L and her employer.
The investigator found Mr Ws report persuasive medical evidence as to the cause of Mrs Ls 
absence. And she thought the medical evidence indicated that Mrs Ls symptoms during the 
deferred period were mainly due to work-related stress. She felt the evidence showed that it 
wasnt an illness which was preventing Mrs L from returning to work, it was her work 
situation. She didnt think it had been unfair for HSBC Life to turn down Mrs Ls claim.
Mrs L disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She said the 
diagnosis shed originally been given by her GP was wrong and that this had been corrected 
on her medical records. Shed relied on the wrong diagnosis of work-related stress when 
self-reporting her symptoms to the GP in September 2021. She questioned whether Mr W 
was sufficiently qualified in mental health to comment on her diagnosis  and indeed, she felt 
later events showed his findings had been wrong. Therefore, she felt HSBC Life couldnt rely 
on his findings. Mrs L has since been awarded employment support allowance (ESA) and 
has been placed in a category which means she is unable to work or be able to return to 
work in the future. She maintained that HSBC Life was working with her employer and that 
they should therefore be treated as one entity. She felt HSBC Life had rejected her claim for 
erroneous reasons. And she provided evidence which she felt showed HSBC Life had 
questioned whether or not her claim was down to work-related stress. She felt the evidence 
showed HSBC Life hadnt acted in good faith. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I dont think it was unfair for HSBC 
Life to turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mrs L that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mrs L needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for her. Within this decision 
though, I havent commented on each and every point shes made and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
At the outset, I must make clear the parameters of this decision. I appreciate Mrs L doesnt 
consider that her employer should be distinguishable from HSBC Life. However, as the 
investigator explained, the insurance contract is between HSBC Life and Mrs Ls employer. 
These are two distinct legal entities and the distinction is an important one. HSBC Life had 
no obligation to provide Mrs L with a copy of the policy terms  as her employer was the 
cover holder. Nor was HSBC Life responsible for the relationship between Mrs L and her 
employer. Mrs L has referred to correspondence between her employer and HSBC Life 
during the life of her claim. But in my experience, there will generally be communication 
between an employer (as the insurance contract policyholder) and an income protection 
insurer during the course of a claim. This isnt unusual. As such then, I wont be considering 
any concerns Mrs L has about her employer as part of this decision  and I have no power to 
consider employment disputes in any event.The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I 
think HSBC Life handled Mrs Ls claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs Ls 
employers contract with HSBC Life. Mrs L made a claim for incapacity benefit, given she 
wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for HSBC Life to consider 
whether Mrs Ls claim met the policy definition of incapacity. HSBC Life provided cover for 
Mrs Ls own occupation. Ive turned then to look the policy definition of incapacity. This says 
incapacity:
Means the Member is unable, by reason of Illness or Injury, to perform the Material and 
Substantial duties of his or her generic Own Occupation and is not following any other 
Occupation.
Material and Substantial duties are those that are normally required for and/or form a 
significant and integral part of the performance of the Occupation and which cannot be 
reasonably omitted or modified by the Member or Policyholder.
This means that in order for HSBC Life to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that a 
member is suffering from an illness which prevents them from carrying out the material and   
substantial duties of their own occupation. And that the illness would prevent them from 
carrying out those material and substantial duties for any other employer or in any other 
workplace  it doesnt mean that a member cant carry out their substantive role for their 
current employer only. 
The policy says that HSBC Life will pay incapacity benefit once a member has been 
continuously incapacitated for the full deferred period and afterwards. In this case, it means 
that Mrs L needed to be continuously incapacitated for the full 26-week period and 
afterwards in order for benefit to be paid. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for an insured member to show they have a valid 
claim on their policy. This means it was Mrs Ls responsibility to provide HSBC Life with 
enough evidence to demonstrate that her illness had led to her being unable to carry out the 
duties of her own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period and afterwards.
HSBC Life assessed the evidence Mrs L provided in support of her claim. It concluded that 
she wasnt suffering from a defined, impairing mental illness which had met the definition of 
incapacity throughout the entire deferred period. Instead, it felt that Mrs L was suffering with 
a reaction to her workplace circumstances that most likely didnt amount to a defined 
medical problem. And the policy terms specifically state that HSBC Life doesnt consider 
stress or workplace stress to be an illness or injury. On that basis, it turned down the claim. 
So Ive thought about whether it was fair for HSBC Life to conclude that the claim wasnt 
covered.
Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence. Its agreed that Mrs L initially self-
reported her condition to her GP as work-related stress, although once Ms D had suggested 
that Mrs Ls symptoms were down to anxiety and depression, later fit notes only referred to 
depression and anxiety. However, the fit notes issued by Mrs Ls GP in September, October 
and November 2021 (the first three months of the deferred period) clearly stated that Mrs Ls 
cause of absence included work-related stress. I appreciate that Mrs L says that her records 
have now been amended, as shed been given the wrong diagnosis by a GP around 10 
months before she was signed-off. But I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC Life to rely 
on the contemporaneous medical records available at the time.Mrs L underwent talking therapies and in July 2021, began treatment with Ms D, a clinical 
psychologist. It appears that HSBC Life asked Ms D for information about Mrs Ls condition, 
which I consider to have been a fair and appropriate action. Ive looked carefully at Ms Ds 
letter, dated 24 January 2022. This says:
(Mrs L) reports symptoms consistent with diagnoses of Generalised Anxiety Disorder and 
Depression. She has low mood with periods of tearfulness, poor concentration, impaired 
sleep, intrusive ruminations and anhedonia
Mrs L reports that these symptoms were precipitated by a difficult period at work. In2020, 
(Mrs L) was moved to another manager without her team and with no notice. This created an 
increase in work load with reduced support. In addition, Mrs L found her new manager to be 
difficult and unresponsive. The situation escalated such that Mrs L sought help from her GP 
in November 2020. The GP diagnosed work related stress and suggested she take 2 weeks 
leave I believe that lack of support, inconsistent management and unrelenting work levels 
both triggered and maintained Mrs Ls anxiety and depression.
I understand that (Mrs L) does intend to return to (her employer) once she is recovered and 
with adequate support, consistent, responsive management and an appropriate workload, I 
don't see that as being problematic. It seems apparent that increased staffing, new 
management and a period without systemic change would help facilitate this.
It's clear that Ms D felt Mrs L reported symptoms which were consistent with generalised 
anxiety and depression. I dont doubt how upsetting this must have been for Mrs L. But I 
dont think this letter indicates a definitive diagnosis of an illness and neither do I think that 
Ms D specifically stated that Mrs L wasnt fit to work as a result of an illness. Instead, I think 
the evidence indicates that Ms D felt Mrs Ls symptoms were caused and maintained by 
work-related concerns  and that a return to work wouldnt be problematic if work-place 
adjustments were made.
Nonetheless, following HSBC Lifes original decision to decline the claim and Mrs Ls initial 
complaint, HSBC Life considered it didnt have enough medical evidence to show that Mrs 
Ls condition was caused by work-related stress. And so it decided to appoint Mr W, a 
consultant in occupational medicine, to carry out an independent assessment of Mrs Ls 
condition. I appreciate Mrs L has concerns about HSBC Lifes handling of her claim during 
the claim process. But I think it was entirely fair and reasonable for HSBC Life to obtain an 
independent opinion on Mrs Ls condition in order to determine whether the claim fell within 
the scope of the policy terms.
Mr Ws report is dated 18 August 2022 and Ive set out below what I consider to be his key 
findings: 
The main issue for her is workplace stress. It was clear from her history and from her 
emotions during the consultation that it is the workplace issues that are prominent in her 
mental health difficulties. Her GP has clearly identified work stress as the main factor. Her 
psychologist has stated that this is not the diagnosis, instead she has generalised anxiety 
disorder and depression.
In Mrs Ls case her affective symptoms of anxiety and depression are entirely due to her
workplace issues. Waiting for her to become better so she can return to work is not only 
futile, but unless her workplace circumstances change substantially, any expectation that 
she will return only increases her stress and anxiety. The solution all along has only been to 
change her workplace circumstances to a point where she can adjust and return to normal 
working again. The fact that she can engage in all other normal daily activities without significant difficulty indicates that not only are her symptoms entirely work-related, but they 
are mild to moderate at most.
Mrs L has now reached the point where the duration of conflict, and lack of any apparent 
attempt to resolve the issues, has led to such a loss of confidence in her employer that any
return to employment is not just unlikely but may well provoke additional symptoms of 
anxiety. The only realistic solution is to allow her to leave and move on. Once she has left 
this employment, I would expect a swift and complete recovery.
I appreciate that Mrs L states that she was unable to return to work and has now been 
awarded ESA. So she feels that Mr Ws conclusions have been shown to be wrong and that 
HSBC Life cant reasonably rely upon them. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC Life to rely on the findings of a consultant physician and expert in the field of 
occupational medicine. Its also provided evidence that it put some of Mrs Ls concerns 
about the report to Mr W for his comments  so I think its shown it took reasonable steps to 
ensure that Mrs Ls concerns could be addressed.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
information provided by medical professionals to decide what evidence I find most 
persuasive. Its clear that Mrs L was suffering from symptoms which can also be indicative of 
a significant mental health condition and its also clear that she has a long-standing history of 
other medical conditions. Im conscious that Mrs L underwent treatment with Ms D and Im 
aware shes also been awarded ESA.
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to HSBC 
Life, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the evidence showed Mrs L was 
suffering from an understandable reaction to the workplace situation in which she found 
herself. And that the main reason for Mrs Ls absence during the deferred period (and 
afterwards) was likely the workplace stress she was under. Ive seen an occupational health 
report too which says: As (Mrs L) finds work to be one of the main triggers for her current 
symptoms, I would suggesta manager meet with herto discuss her work-related 
concerns in more detail so that these do not become a barrier to her return to work. I think 
this evidence points towards the main cause of Mrs Ls absence being workplace issues and 
that she suffered from an understandable reaction to her personal circumstances - rather 
than a functionally impairing mental illness.
This means I dont find that HSBC Life acted unfairly when it decided that Mrs L wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition or other functionally impairing illness, 
during the deferred period, which prevented her from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation. 
Overall, I dont think it was unfair for HSBC life to conclude that Mrs Ls absence wasnt due 
to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that the 
main cause of Mrs Ls absence was more likely due to workplace stress and a reaction to 
her circumstances. So despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Ls position, I find it was fair 
and reasonable for HSBC Life to turn down her income protection claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman