DRN-3026036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the secured, second-charge loan they have with Arrow Global 
Finance Limited has cost them too much to repay. They say the interest theyve been 
charged over the years is unfair.
Mr and Mrs B also complain about the fees and charges that theyve incurred throughout the 
loan term, and they say that Arrow havent treated them fairly when theyve faced financial 
difficulties.
What happened
In April 2006, Mr and Mrs B borrowed £11,522.50 from a company Ill call F. The loan was 
taken out over a 15-year term and was a secured fixed-sum loan agreement, regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The first three months were interest free before the 
interest rate reverted to a variable rate of 10.88% per year. The loan agreement set out that 
if the interest rate didnt change the total cost of the credit would be £12,856.70  so, Mr and 
Mrs B were due to pay back around £24,400 over the loan term.
The interest rate changed several times between 2006 and 2009. In September 2009 the 
interest rate changed to 13.68% per year. Arrow took over the loan account for Mr and Mrs B 
and assumed responsibility for it in July 2016. Arrow didnt make any changes to the interest 
rate and it remained at 13.68%.
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs B complained about the amount of interest applied to the 
account since the start of the loan. They said theyd end up paying more than double the 
amount theyd borrowed, and they didnt think that was fair.
Arrow responded to their complaint in March 2019; they said they were satisfied the interest 
charged had been calculated correctly. Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs B asked us 
to get involved.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She said that because of the time 
limits that apply to our jurisdiction wed only be able to consider events which took place 
since February 2013 (6 years prior to when Mr and Mrs B first raised their complaint). And 
she didnt think that applying the three-year extension of the same rule would mean we could 
go back further.
In terms of the variable interest rate and resulting interest being charged, the investigator 
determined that since July 2016, although Arrow hadnt varied the rate when they possibly 
should have done, Mr and Mrs B may have actually benefited as established interest rates 
such as the Bank of Englands Base Rate (BoE) or The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate 
(LIBOR) have increased during that time period but Mr and Mrs Bs variable rate remained 
the same. The investigator also said that there were no unreasonable barriers to exiting the 
agreement if Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what they were being charged.
With regard to fees and charges, the investigator didnt think Arrow had done anything 
wrong. Finally, the investigator found that Arrow had treated Mr and Mrs B positively and 
sympathetically whenever theyd been in financial difficulties.
Mr and Mrs Bs response to the view
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view. They said:
They couldnt accept that Arrow had acted fairly because theyd still owe them 
around £5,000  £6,000 at the end of the 15-year loan term.
Arrow should have frozen the interest on the loan as theyve already had back 100% 
of the capital borrowed; the interest charges meant that the amount owed only 
reduced by a marginal sum each year.
Arrow should have frozen the interest when they had financial difficulties instead of 
piling on the interest.
They felt strongly that Arrow had overcharged them for this loan, and that the 
investigator had just looked at the small print to justify what Arrow had charged.
Mr and Mrs B also mentioned an issue with Arrow regarding a Covid-19 payment holiday 
and the amount they were expected to pay when that payment holiday ended. This isnt 
something Ill be addressing in this decision as the issue has only recently arisen. If Mr and 
Mrs B wish to pursue a separate complaint about that they should first raise the matter with 
Arrow.
Events since the investigators view
Since our investigator issued her view in January 2021 our service has continued to consider 
this and similar complaints about interest rate variation terms in secured loan contracts. To 
be clear, these complaints have involved a range of businesses, not just Arrow.
As our approach to these issues developed, another investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint and concluded that, whilst the interest rate variation term in the contract Mr and 
Mrs B had with F is fair, it wasnt implemented fairly by Arrow after they took responsibility 
for the account in July 2016. They said Arrow ought to have linked the variable rate to a new 
base lending rate when the rate the term was based on (the F base lending rate) ceased to 
exist. So, they said Arrow should backdate the interest rate changes on the loan to follow the 
Bank of England base rate changes since July 2016. They explained that if this resulted in 
an overpayment and additional interest refund, this should be put towards the outstanding 
balance. But if adjusting the interest in this way would not be beneficial, then no action 
should be taken.
Arrow responded to say that since they acquired the loan, the base rates (LIBOR and BoE) 
have remained broadly flat. So, they didnt think the fact they hadnt varied Mr and Mrs Bs 
interest rate since July 2016 had unfairly impacted them. However, Arrow said that a review 
theyd carried out in 2020 should have resulted in Mr and Mrs Bs loan rate reducing by 
0.65% in January 2021. They accepted this hadnt happened due to an administrative 
oversight and agreed to remediate this.
The investigator also asked Arrow to consider taking steps to help Mr and Mrs B pay off the 
loan earlier, given that the original loan term of 15 years has now expired. Arrow offered to 
reduce the interest rate on the account to 0% effective from 9 March 2022 until completion. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted this, although they said they wanted the monthly repayment amount 
reduced too, even though thatll mean it takes them longer to pay it off.As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
The scope of my decision  what I can and cant look at
Before I set out the findings and outcome Ive reached on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint I think 
its important to clarify the scope of what Im deciding here. I agree with the investigator who 
set out her view in January 2021 that our rules mean we cant usually look at events which 
happened more than 6 years ago. The rules that set out our jurisdiction are determined by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and set out in their handbook under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP). The specific section of the rules that is relevant here is DISP 2.8.2. 
It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to us in February 2019, more than six years after their 
loan account, and the events theyve complained about, began. They also were aware (or 
ought reasonably to have been aware) more than 3 years before 2019 that they werent 
happy with the fees and charges theyd incurred on the loan between 2006 and 2013, and I 
think theyd have known that they werent happy with Fs response to their financial 
difficulties between 2006 and 2013 also. So, for their complaints about those matters (fees, 
charges and financial difficulties) Id only have jurisdiction to look at the events from 
February 2013 until their complaint in February 2019. But, and Ill explain why below, my 
findings will be limited to a shorter period than that  Ill only be looking at whats happened 
since July 2016.
For their complaint about the rate of interest theyve been charged it is more difficult to know 
precisely when they became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they 
had cause to complain about the rate of interest charged. I dont consider there to be a 
specific point in time where Mr and Mrs B would have become aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) of this. On that basis, its possible I might be able to look back to how 
the interest variation term has been applied since 2006. However, in this case, Ive decided 
that I cant look back to events which happened before July 2016. And thats because: the 
only respondent I can make findings about here is Arrow Global Finance Limited; Arrows 
involvement in Mr and Mrs Bs loan didnt begin until July 2016; and I have no evidence that 
Arrow have any liability for the historic actions of F.
So, whilst I intend to refer to matters which took place prior to that date, to set the context for 
more recent events, and Ill be referring to a contract term which has remained unchanged 
since 2006, any findings I make only relate to Arrow and the period July 2016 to February 
2019 (the date of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint).What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached substantially the same conclusions as our investigators have 
communicated to both parties.
To begin with I should say Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties have done, and Ive done so using my own words. Im also not going 
to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended 
by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here.
Id also like to say at the outset that I appreciate Mr and Mrs B feel badly let down by F and, 
subsequently, Arrow, and that I recognise theyve encountered financial difficulties over a 
prolonged period which have caused them distress. With this in mind, and knowing that my 
decision is unlikely to result in any substantial refund of the interest theyve paid, I expect 
theyll find my decision disappointing. But I hope theyll be reassured that the complaint 
points theyve raised have been looked at independently. Ill set out my findings against each 
of the complaint points.
Interest rate and amount payable
When considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the way the specific term has been 
applied and whether they have been treated fairly and reasonably, Ive thought carefully 
about whether the interest term was fair or not. If a term is fair, we then must consider 
whether it has been applied fairly.
The applicable terms for Mr and Mrs Bs loan regarding interest rates set out that the rate will 
vary in line with Fs published base lending rate.
When I consider what is a fair term, I need to be satisfied that it is clearly outlined and 
understandable. When weve considered the term in Fs contract with Mr and Mrs B amongst 
the wider legal arguments and industry practice, I am satisfied that the term is fair. It is clear 
why the interest rate would change and how in practice it should change. Whilst F owned the 
loan, they varied the rate in-line with their published base rate, as the term clearly set out it 
would do.
When Arrow took over responsibility for the loan from July 2016, they were also responsible 
for setting the interest rates. F have confirmed the base rate they used ceased to exist, and 
so, a new rate needed to be used moving forwards. We asked Arrow for more information 
around how they decided the new interest rate, and they confirmed that Mr and Mrs Bs 
agreement continued to be serviced on the F base rate without linking it to a new rate  
hence why it stayed at 13.68% until their review in late 2020.
Since Arrow took over the loan, I am unaware of any further interest rate changes that have 
occurred. Fs base rate was calculated on cost of funding which the regulator considers to be 
a fair approach to setting an internal variable rate. Fs base rate was also a published rate. 
So, I have to consider what would be fair when replacing it. Ive considered the industry 
practice applied to the portfolio of loans previously held by F that have been moved to 
various other businesses like Arrow. In general, the approach has been that the interest rate 
has moved to a new business rate which has closely followed changes to the BoE base rate. 
This is an approach I dont think is necessarily unfair.As Arrow didnt do that, didnt set a new base rate for Mr and Mrs Bs loan to follow, I dont 
think they acted fairly. Theyve also not varied the rate at all nor explained to Mr and Mrs B 
on what basis the variable interest rate term would work once they took over responsibility 
for setting the interest rates.
To put things right, I think Arrow should calculate what Mr and Mrs B would have paid if 
theyd done what I think they should have done  linked the interest rate to the changes in 
the BoE base rate. If this results in Mr and Mrs B having paid more than they should have 
done, they should receive a refund of any overpayments. If it doesnt, or tracking the BoE 
base rate would have resulted in them paying more than they have, no action should be 
taken. Ive set this out in more detail below.
The position moving forward is that Mr and Mrs B will not be charged any further interest 
from 9 March 2022 until the loan has completed. I dont consider this to be unfair.
I know Mr and Mrs B would like the business to agree to reduced monthly repayments, but 
this will need to be something agreed between themselves and Arrow. However, Id remind 
Arrow that they have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. Should the parties not agree on an affordable repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance, that may result in a new complaint.
Fees and charges
As Ive explained, Im only considering events since July 2016, and I cant see that any fees 
have been charged since that date. It follows that I cant say that Arrow have acted unfairly 
in applying fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Bs loan account. However, for completeness, I 
can see that since February 2013, Mr and Mrs B have had three charges applied to their 
account, all of which appear to have been refunded.
Arrears management
When a consumer is experiencing financial difficulty, we expect to see a lender treat a 
customer positively and sympathetically. However, we also need to consider that the 
customer has been proactive in their situation. There is only a limited amount of forbearance 
measures which a business can consider, whilst we do look at what a business can fairly do 
in the circumstances. For much the same reasons as the investigator, I wont be upholding 
this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs B have suffered with periods of illness, and theyve had unplanned 
expenditure, and I understand how this would have caused significant distress when also 
trying to maintain essential payments along with this loan and other credit repayments. Ive 
read through the contact notes to gain an understanding of what happened, and the actions 
taken by Arrow. I dont see anything that suggests Arrow acted unfairly, they do have an 
obligation to understand a customers financial circumstances and any other issues in order 
to provide help and support. There have been periods where Arrow has provided breathing 
space and been patient with Mr and Mrs B when needing information.
Considering the forbearance measures available, I am not sure Arrow could have done 
much more that wouldnt have considerably extended the loan term or the costs. I appreciate 
this loan is already in a position where it has cost more than it would have if no payments 
had been missed, but I dont think Arrow acted unfairly in the manner they have. I do also 
have to acknowledge that when payments are missed and the loan falls behind, it will always 
cost the consumer more than it otherwise would have. There isnt an obligation on the 
business to stop interest or write-off sums of money in these circumstances.Putting things right
As outlined above, I am partly upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I think Arrow has acted 
unfairly in how they applied the interest rate variation term after they acquired the debt from 
F. To put things right, Arrow should:
Review from the date they took over the loan until 9 March 2022 what Mr and Mrs B 
would have paid if the Bank of England base rate changes had been tracked;
If Arrow calculate that Mr and Mrs B accumulated more interest than they would have 
if Arrow had tracked the BoE base rate changes, the balance should be recalculated, 
and the overpayments and interest should be offset against the outstanding balance;
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments from the date that they were 
made to the date that they are effectively repaid;
If Arrow calculate that Mr and Mrs B would have paid more had the interest tracked 
the BoE base rate, then no further action should be taken;
Reduce the interest rate charged on this loan to 0% from 9 March 2022 as theyve 
already agreed to do; and
Engage with Mr and Mrs B in agreeing an affordable repayment plan for any 
outstanding balance.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Arrow deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs B request it, Arrow should give them a certificate showing how much tax 
has been taken off so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Arrow Global Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman