DRN-4076740
The complaint
The estate of Mrs C complains about the date that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
used to calculate the value of her investment bond after she applied for a partial 
encashment. The estate, represented here by her daughter, thinks that as a result of the 
calculation Aviva has benefitted from a subsequent increase in the value of the plan due to a 
delay in completing the surrender. It believes the gain should have been paid to the late 
Mrs C instead. 
What happened
In July 1992 the late Mrs C took out a capital investment bond with Friends Provident (now 
part of Aviva) with an initial £35,000 investment. 
In December 2018 she contacted Aviva to request a partial redemption of the bond which 
had a total cash-in value of £184,929.77 at that time. The necessary encashment form was 
sent to her and was returned to Aviva and received on 7 January 2019. The request was for 
a surrender of £110,000. 
On 8 and 23 January and 7 February 2019 Aviva wrote to Mrs C requesting her original 
policy documents. It said if these were unavailable, she should complete a lost policy form 
of instruction. During this time Mrs Cs daughter, who was one of two attorneys set out in a 
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) for Mrs C, contacted Aviva to provide a copy of the LPA 
and to ask if a lost policy declaration they had sent on 12 January 2019 had been received 
and acted upon. Aviva said it hadnt, and after some delay sent a replacement form on 
26 February 2019. Aviva explained that, although it usually only required the form for full 
surrenders, it was also required on this occasion because the surrender value of the funds 
requested was more than £100,000.
On 1 April 2019 Mrs C located the original policy document and sent it to Aviva so that it 
could proceed with the partial surrender of the plan. 
On 8 April 2019 Aviva wrote to Mrs C as it said it wanted to discuss a small matter with her. 
This was to talk about how to surrender the bond and the potential chargeable gain this 
might cause. This letter proceeded a telephone message Aviva had left Mrs C on 
4 April 2019.
Mrs Cs daughter contacted Aviva and resolved the issue. Subsequent confirmation of a 
payment of £110,052.30 to Mrs Cs bank account was made on 12 April 2019. This included 
an interest amount of £52.30 covering the period from when the units were sold to when the 
payment was made. This left £85,491.57 invested in the plan. 
The letter confirmed the funds should reach the account five working days from the date of 
the letter. It also confirmed the date that was used to calculate the value of the encashment 
was 2 April 2019. 
In May 2019 Mrs Cs daughter complained about the handling of the partial surrender 
request. She said:
In January 2019 Aviva requested completion of a lost policy form or the return of the 
original policy document  but said this was only required if the policy was being fully 
surrendered. It was unclear why the documents were required in the event of this 
partial surrender. The form had been returned in January 2019 but unfortunately 
Mrs C was subsequently admitted to hospital. She said Aviva had also ignored her 
letter from 18 February 2019 which asked if the form had been received. As it was 
clear that Mrs C no longer had the form it would have been easier and quicker to 
simply send out a new lost policy declaration.
They had already made Aviva aware of how the policy should be cashed in with 
regards to any chargeable gain within the original surrender request form. It seemed 
duplicitous to ask this question again in early April 2019 and no doubt delayed the 
encashment further.
Aviva ought to have used the date her instruction was processed and not the date it 
used  which it said was backdated to when the outstanding requirements from 
Mrs C could have been met if it hadnt caused any delays. The difference between 
the dates meant the unit price rose and caused a windfall profit which she thought 
ought to be given to Mrs C rather than kept by Aviva  particularly in light of other 
errors Aviva had made during the process.
The original policy document hadnt yet been returned to Mrs C as had been 
promised by Aviva. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It accepted that it had caused some delays in making the 
payment and said that it had backdated Mrs Cs claim to the date it should have used had it 
not made those errors. It said the date it had all the requested information to pay the claim 
was 2 April 2019  so that was the date it had used, and it wasnt able to pay Mrs C the unit 
price growth that had been made between that date and the date the claim was processed 
on 12 April 2019.
Aviva also noted that it had failed to acknowledge a letter from Mrs Cs daughter in 
February 2019 which ought to have prompted it to provide a new lost policy form. So it 
thought that, had it done this correctly the forms would have been returned within 10 working 
days  and its surrender requirements would have been met by 11 March 2019. However, it 
calculated that Mrs C would have received a lower unit price if it had used this date, so it 
believed she had benefitted financially from it using the 2 April 2019 date. 
But it sent Mrs C a cheque for £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by not 
responding to the letter and failing to provide new lost policy declaration forms.
 
Mrs Cs daughter said that the only matter that was now in dispute was the date that should 
be used for the calculation and her belief that Aviva mustnt be allowed to financially gain 
from its error. She said that, while she believed her mother should benefit from the error, she 
would be happy for Aviva to donate the gain to a charity nominated by Mrs C  if it felt 
unable to use the date of 12 April 2019 for its calculation. 
Aviva didnt agree with the proposal, so Mrs C brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter.
She said Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld as we would only ask Aviva to backdate a 
claim if it would have resulted in a higher surrender value. She thought that in this case 
Aviva would profit from its actions  which she didnt think was fair.  She recommended that 
Aviva compared the notional value of the bond had the plan been partially surrendered using 
the date of 12 April 2019, against the current value of the bond  and then to pay 
compensation if the notional value is higher. Aviva didnt agree. It said we had misunderstood its explanation for using the dates it used 
for its calculation. It said it didnt choose to backdate the calculation date but simply used 
the correct date of surrender  which is always the date the last of any outstanding 
requirements to process the transaction are received. 
It said it had also calculated surrender values using the date of 11 March 2019 within its 
response to Mrs C, but this was to compare whether shed suffered any financial loss as a 
result of its delay in sending out another lost policy declaration form.  It compared the price 
of the units on this date against the price on 2 April 2019, but concluded she was better off 
using the correct date in any case. It said the date of 12 April 2019 shouldnt be used in any 
of its calculations as it would seem to be with the benefit of hindsight.
Aviva said that the Financial Ombudsman Services website states the need to put put the 
customer back in the position theyd have been in if things hadnt gone wrong.  In this case 
it believed it had simply carried out that instruction by using the unit price on the date that 
would have been applied if it had partially surrendered Mrs Cs bond when it should have 
done - without any errors or delays. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She said that, where an avoidable 
delay has occurred in making a payment  backdating it to the date the business couldve 
arranged the payment had it not caused a delay is only appropriate where the consumer has 
been financially disadvantaged because of the delay. In this case, as Mrs C wasnt 
financially disadvantaged by the delay there was no need to backdate the payment to 
2 April 2019.
Aviva then explained that the delay from 2 April 2019 was caused by it needing to confirm 
with Mrs C the way in which the bond should be surrendered as both methods it could have 
used would have incurred the same chargeable gain  but the method needed to be 
confirmed by Mrs C. So, it didnt think it was right to use the calculation date of 
12 April 2019. It also said that if it had used that date it would have had to complete the tax 
calculation again, thus beginning a never ending loop of new calculation dates against 
dealing dates.
 
The investigator believed Avivas new information showed that its requirements hadnt been 
met by 2 April 2019 as it had to contact Mrs C to confirm the basis of the surrender. She also 
thought Mrs Cs previous instructions around the chargeable gain meant that further never 
ending calculations wouldnt have been required. Aviva said that the delay in providing the 
information from 2 to 12 April 2019 was Mrs Cs responsibility as she didnt contact it until 
11 April 2019. It explained that it has to fix a date on which to make its calculation and not to 
do so would potentially allow a consumer to delay the transaction in a rising market. It said it 
would equally use a fixed (backdated) date if prices were falling as well. In this case it 
confirmed Mrs Cs outstanding requirements  namely documentation and signatures  was 
received by 2 April 2019. 
The investigator said she didnt think Aviva was responsible for the delay in gathering 
information from 2 to 12 April 2019  but as she hadnt seen any evidence to show that 
Aviva had actually cancelled the investment bond units on 2 April 2019 she couldnt see that 
using 12 April 2019 unit prices would cause Aviva a financial loss.  
But as it appeared no resolution could ultimately be found, Aviva asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review. 
Unfortunately, Mrs C passed away during the course of the investigation of this case. The 
complaint is now being brought by her estate. 
My provisional decisionIn my provisional decision I said that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I didnt think Aviva 
had done anything wrong in using the date it did to calculate the surrender value of the late 
Mrs Cs investment bond. I made the following points to support my findings:
Aviva had previously worked out if the late Mrs C would have been better off if it had 
started the encashment process on 11 March 2019. But it calculated that she 
wouldnt have been better off. So both parties have agreed that the crux of this 
complaint is whether Aviva should have used 2 or 12 April 2019 as the calculation 
date.
Aviva has demonstrated, both from its internal guidance and some communication 
with the late Mrs C, that it would process a surrender when it received all the 
outstanding requirements. According to Aviva this date was 2 April 2019.
So I then looked at what caused the delay from 2 to 12 April 2019. I thought Avivas 
question to Mrs C about how the bond should be surrendered was valid so I then 
considered whether it constituted further information or whether it was an 
outstanding requirement which obviously meant the process shouldnt have begun 
until it was resolved. I concluded the request was for additional information because I 
thought the cash in quotation Mrs C received set out the original requirements  
namely the completed cash-in form and the policy or lost policy form. So I concluded 
that the requirements had been met by 2 April 2019. 
I then considered who had been responsible for the 10 day delay in obtaining the 
further information. But as Aviva tried to contact Mrs C on 4 April  and sent a 
supplementary letter on 8 April 2019 - then I didnt think Aviva could reasonably be 
held responsible for the delay. I noted that Mrs Cs daughter had told us about her 
mothers health at the time, so it was possible Mrs C simply had been unable to 
respond to Aviva. So I didnt think it was fair to blame either party for causing the 
delay. 
When looking at how Aviva had tried to resolve this matter I noted it had paid 
backdated interest from 2 April 2019 on the surrender value and had paid £250 for 
the inconvenience caused by the delays which meant it could have potentially started 
the process earlier. So, as I thought it was fair for Aviva to use the date of 
2 April 2019 to calculate the final surrender value, I didnt think it needed to do 
anything further here.
Aviva said it had no further comment to make regarding the provisional decision, but the late 
Mrs Cs estate didnt agree. Acting on its behalf the late Mrs Cs daughter made the following 
points in response.
I had stated that the form sent to Mrs C to confirm the partial encashment confirmed 
that the unit price used for the transaction was 2 April 2019. This indicates that the 
£110,000 withdrawal was made from the fund on 2 April and did not remain 
invested. But this didnt indicate when the actual investments were sold. Other 
correspondence wed been provided with stated that the withdrawal took place on 
12 April but using the prices from 2 April 2019. So it was clear that Aviva had 
benefitted from the gain in unit prices during those additional 10 days. 
It was her belief that Aviva intended to process the surrender when it did indeed 
receive the further information it required. But because Aviva had already been 
provided with this information from Mrs Cs cash-in quotation form she thought it then 
realised it had received all of the outstanding requirements by 2 April 2019 and used 
that as the surrender pricing date.
But as Aviva has subsequently stated that it did require Mrs C to provide an answer 
to its question about how it should surrender the bond  for chargeable gain 
purposes, then she thought Aviva didnt have all the information it required until 12 April 2019 and therefore ought to have used that date.
Avivas internal guidance said that it would process the surrender when it had 
received all the requirements. However, she thought I had created two categories of 
requirements in my findings which were at odds with Avivas use of the word all. 
She explained why Avivas telephone message of 4 April 2019 wasnt listened to by 
Mrs C at the time, but she couldnt understand why, if the information required was 
important enough to delay payment for 10 days, it wasnt enough of a requirement 
to prevent Aviva from backdating the surrender.
She was now aware that Aviva needed to establish whether the surrender was to be 
carried out across the whole policy or simply using individual segments of the plan. 
She thought that it was important for Aviva to know how the surrender would affect 
the whole structure of the plan going forward and therefore believed this was an 
important outstanding requirement and that the surrender calculation should have 
been completed immediately after it was given this information  namely 
12 April 2019.
She believed Avivas explanation of why it used the earlier calculation date was 
sufficiently flawed for the complaint to be settled in the estates favour. She set out a 
proposed redress methodology that ought to be used to calculate the potential loss 
from using the earlier settlement date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the additional points raised by the late Mrs Cs estate, I see 
no reason to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. I do realise how 
strongly the late Mrs Cs family feel about this matter and I can understand why they believe 
Aviva shouldnt benefit from a fortuitous gain here. But I dont think Aviva has done 
anything wrong. 
Ill replay my findings from the provisional decision below, as I think they stand as my 
reasons for not upholding the complaint. Ill then give an additional response to Mrs Cs 
daughters further submission.
The provisional decision
I note that during the complaint process Aviva looked at whether the late Mrs C would have 
benefitted from an earlier surrender, had Aviva started the encashment process on 
11 March 2019. But it calculated that the late Mrs C would have been better off had the 
surrender been based on the date it believed it had finally received all the outstanding 
requirements  namely 2 April 2019. So it thought the outstanding part of Mrs Cs complaint 
was simply whether it should have used the 2 or 12 April 2019 as the date for calculating the 
surrender value.
And I can see that Mrs Cs daughter accepted this outcome at the time and also agreed on 
what was the remaining aspect of the complaint. 
Her view was that either Aviva did have all the information it required on 2 April 2019 but 
didnt make the payment until 10 days later, in which case the payment should only be 
backdated if it was for the late Mrs Cs benefit, or it didnt have all the information until 
12 April 2019, in which case backdating wouldnt be required.
So Ive looked at the evidence around the dates that were used to calculate the surrender 
value.Which date should Aviva have used in the first place?
Ive been provided with an extract from one of Avivas internal systems and process guides 
which states that:
Effective date
Once we have received all our requirements we will be able to process the surrender. The 
date all our requirements to process the surrender claim are met will be the effective date 
used to process the surrender. If the requirement is received on a nonworking day. Then 
the immediate next working day becomes the effective date to process the surrender.
From my experience Ive seen this approach followed by most other providers too  so I find 
it a reasonable approach to take. In essence Aviva fixes the price and therefore the value 
on an agreed date (when requirements are satisfied).
This means that if there are any subsequent delays and the payment isnt made at the time, 
there arent any surprises for the policyholder, and it also doesnt allow either party to hold 
up payment in order to benefit from unusual or significant changes in unit prices.
But in any case, Aviva has adopted this approach for the surrender of all policies, and we 
wouldnt normally interfere in such decisions. So I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong 
here as it has processed the partial surrender using the date it said it would, based on its 
usual approach. I would normally say that I would expect a firm to make a consumer aware 
of its processes and Im aware that in this case the evidence has come from Avivas internal 
guidance which wouldnt have been made available to Mrs C.
However, I have seen that Aviva made a number of references to its requirements in its 
communications with Mrs C. In particular Ive seen a copy of the cash-in quotation from 
13 December 2018 which stated, The full cash-in value quoted above is not guaranteed. If 
you do cash in your policy, the amount you receive could be higher or lower than this 
depending on how your investment performs in the meantime. The actual value that would 
be paid will be based on the next published price after we have received your cash-in form 
and any other required items.
So I think that was clear and made Mrs C aware - before the surrender was completed  that 
the process would only begin when all the requirements were met.
Were the requirements met on 2 April 2019?
Having decided that Aviva calculated the surrender value on the date it had set out that it 
would, Ive moved on to consider why it was unable to make the payment on or around the 
same date instead of 10 days later. During this 10 day period, as Mrs Cs daughter has 
noted, there was a significant rise in the value of the funds the plan was invested in. 
Mrs Cs daughter made the point that Aviva couldnt have had all its requirement by 
2 April 2019, or it wouldnt have delayed matters and would have been right to use that as 
the calculation date. The reason for the delay was that Aviva needed to contact Mrs C, after 
it received all the outstanding documentation, to discuss how she wanted the segments of 
the bond to be encashed. Aviva says that this dictated how any chargeable gain was to be 
calculated  although in this case the two encashment options would always have led to the 
same amount of chargeable gain.I have initially considered if this request was erroneous as it wouldnt have affected the value 
of the partial surrender. But Aviva has explained that it needed to ask Mrs C if she preferred 
which of the two methods of encashment it should use and I can imagine that, while this 
wouldnt have affected the chargeable gain, it might have affected future surrenders or 
withdrawals depending on how the structure of the bond remained. In any case I think it was 
a valid question to ask Mrs C to check if she had any preference.
But was this additional information an extra requirement Aviva needed to process the 
surrender or simply clarification of a matter that could be confirmed during a brief telephone 
call. In order to answer that question, Ive looked at the cash-in quotation which set out what 
to do next at the bottom of the first page. It said if you decide to cash in part or all of this 
policy please send us the following items by post:
The completed and signed cash-in form signed by all policy holders.
If you are cashing in the whole policy, the original policy schedule. If you cant find 
the original please contact us for a lost policy form. 
There was some additional information regarding verification of identification, but I
understand this didnt apply in Mrs Cs case.
I havent been able to secure a definitive list of what Aviva regards as requirements in
these cases although it has told us this usually relates to (signed) documents rather than
things which can be clarified directly with a client. So I think its reasonable to assume here
that the outstanding requirements were the cash-in form and the policy - or lost policy form,
as although this was a partial surrender, because its value was over £100,000 the policy
itself was required. So, from the evidence I been presented with, Im satisfied that the need
to clarify the way in which the bond ought to have been surrendered didnt constitute an
outstanding requirement  so I think the usual and necessary requirements had been met by
2 April 2019.
Did Aviva cause the subsequent delay?
Although I dont think Avivas need to confirm the details about the bond encashment were
classed as outstanding requirements, I have considered the overall responsibility for the
delay of 10 days between Aviva receiving the lost policy form  which was the last
requirement  and when the surrender actually took place.
Avivas own notes show that it contacted Mrs C on 4 April but was unable to speak with her.
Ive seen a letter that Aviva subsequently sent to Mrs C asking her to call but this was only
sent on 8 April, so I think it was this letter that probably caused a call back on
11 April 2019. Ive also taken into account what Mrs Cs daughter told us about her mothers
health around this time, so it may not have been possible for her to respond sooner anyway.
But I cant reasonably say that Aviva was responsible for the delay in clarifying the situation
here as it tried to contact Mrs C as soon as possible when it became aware of the small
matter it needed to discuss. 
So its difficult to apportion blame to either party and I think the delay was simply caused by 
an unfortunate set of circumstances which cant be directly attributed to either party or could 
be said to be as a result of either party acting unfairly.
Should Aviva pay its fortuitous gain to Mrs Cs estate or the nominated charity?
Mrs Cs daughter says that Aviva has benefitted from this delay in the surrender of her late
mothers policy and that the gain its made should be paid to her estate or  if Aviva doesntaccept that, then to a nominated charity. She says its simply unfair for Aviva to benefit in this
case.
But as Ive explained throughout this decision, I think Aviva has been clear in setting out the
date it uses to determine the calculation of the surrender value and the documents it
requires to satisfy its process and proceed with the payment. I dont think it acted unfairly or
unreasonably here. And the form sent to Mrs C to confirm the partial encashment said that 
the unit price used for the transaction was based on the price at 2 April 2019. This indicates 
that the £110,000 withdrawal was made from the fund on 2 April and did not remain 
invested. Consequently, it is not clear that Aviva would have benefitted from any gain in the 
unit prices between 2 April and 12 April 2019.
I think Aviva did consider the consequences of the delay it did cause by not surrendering the
policy by 11 March 2019  but it concluded that Mrs C had benefitted from the surrender
taking place in April 2019 and didnt backdate it on that occasion to ensure she wasnt
financially worse off.
And I note that when Aviva paid the partial surrender it added backdated interest for the
period from 2 April 2019, which I think is consistent in using that date as its final calculation
date. I also note that Aviva paid Mrs C £250 for the errors it made which did cause some
delay to a possible earlier payment date of 11 March 2019. I think this was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances and within the range of what Id expect to see paid for such
errors.
I think its reasonable to say that Aviva acted fairly when calculating the surrender value on
2 April 2019, because it was reasonable to consider that this was the date it had received all
the outstanding requirements for the encashment. This also protected Mrs C from any
potential falls in the unit price that could have occurred as a result of market fluctuations
(although I acknowledge that in fact the unit price rose after 2 April). Although I appreciate 
my findings are likely to be disappointing to the executors, for these reasons, I do not 
currently intend to make any award to Mrs Cs estate.
Mrs Cs daughter responded to the provisional decision essentially making two further 
points. Firstly, she didnt agree with my statement that Aviva probably hadnt benefitted from 
the unit price rise as it would most likely have sold the units on 2 April 2019. She thought 
Avivas own submissions accepted that it didnt sell until 12 April 2019 and therefore it was 
clear that it had benefited financially from the delay. And if Aviva had benefitted from the 
delay she didnt think that was fair and thought the late Mrs C should have received the gain 
within the surrender value. 
I appreciate the point made here, and I accept that its not entirely clear that Aviva would 
have sold the units on 2 April 2019, but I dont think thats material to the outcome of the 
complaint here. The important point is  as I said previously - whether Aviva had made 
Mrs C aware of the reason for using the date it did when calculating the surrender value, and 
whether it acted fairly in using that date. 
And I think it did here as supported by the evidence Ive seen from its internal guidance and 
the cash-in quotation it sent Mrs C which said, the actual value that would be paid will be 
based on the next published price after we have received your cash-in form and any other 
required items. 
I know the estate believe that Aviva didnt actually sell the units until 12 April 2019 and 
therefore ought simply to have paid Mrs C the surrender value at that point, but I dont think 
that approach would be fair to consumers or Aviva alike. If I look at the situation here a different way  and this outcome could have occurred given Mrs Cs health concerns at the 
time - if there had been further delays in Mrs C providing the additional information Aviva 
needed, the unit prices might have begun to fall and even fallen below the value of 
2 April 2019. If I were to conclude that the estate is right that Mrs C ought to have been 
given the values of 12 April 2019 then it follows that it would also have been correct to pay a 
much lower value if the above scenario had occurred.
I dont think that would have been fair to Mrs C and Im sure she would not have been happy 
either. Understandably in the circumstances, I think she would probably have registered a 
complaint. So to avoid either situation occurring, I think its fair for Aviva to adopt a position 
that dictates that the calculation date should be fixed according to a set of criteria and I dont 
think its unreasonable for that to be based on when its in receipt of all of the outstanding 
requirements.
But Mrs Cs daughters further point was around the definition of outstanding requirements. 
She believes that if the information Aviva required was important enough not to allow it to 
surrender the plan then it should be considered as an outstanding requirement and 
encashment and calculation shouldnt have been carried out until the day the requirement 
was met  namely 12 April 2019. She feels that in hindsight, Aviva decided that the 
information had already been provided within the cash-in quotation form and wasnt really 
required  so it backdated the settlement date to when the information had been initially 
provided. She thinks Avivas position  albeit not deliberately, has shifted here. She also 
believes that I have not taken into account the internal guidance which suggested that all 
requirements needed to be received to process the surrender.
As I said in my provisional decision theres no definitive list of what constitutes outstanding 
requirements in these situations. My initial view was that Aviva itself set out what was 
required in its cash-in quotation letter which said if you decide to cash in part or all of this 
policy please send us the following items by post:
The completed and signed cash-in form signed by all policy holders.
If you are cashing in the whole policy, the original policy schedule. If you cant find 
the original please contact us for a lost policy form. 
It didnt suggest there were any further requirements to be satisfied when making a partial 
surrender but equally it didnt rule out the possibility of additional clarification being required 
over other matters. Thats what happened here because the original policy/lost policy form 
and cash in quotation had been returned by 2 April 2019, but Aviva then required clarification 
about whether to surrender the policy in individual segments or across the entire plan. 
Mrs Cs daughter says that the composition of the bond after a partial surrender would 
generally be regarded as an important factor and therefore this was important enough to be 
regarded as an outstanding requirement which shouldnt have allowed the surrender to 
take place until resolved. It would then follow that the settlement date ought to be the date 
this matter was resolved by her contacting Aviva. And I accept it is difficult to be conclusive 
about what an outstanding requirement is in this case. 
But Mrs Cs daughter has accepted that for example missing bank account details might 
constitute a differentiation between requirements that might or might not allow the 
surrender process to begin. I think this demonstrates how difficult it is to categorise anything 
that Aviva needs to clarify after its received the necessary documents between 
requirements or non-requirements. If I return to Avivas internal guidance document, this 
states that once we have received all our requirements we will be able to process the 
surrender. I think the reference to what it has received supports Avivas assertion that the 
requirements are the documents that it set out needed to be returned before the process 
could begin  which I think is supported by what it said in the cash-in quotation. Im satisfied that the evidence here supports the idea that the clarification about how the 
surrender should be carried out wasnt an outstanding requirement as such and I think the 
fact that Aviva added backdated interest from 2 April 2019 supports the idea that it thought 
all the requirements had been met by that date.
I understand the estate wont be happy with the outcome Ive reached here, and I can see 
how strongly it believes that Aviva shouldnt be able to keep the gain that was made 
because of a genuine delay to the calculation and the payment of a partial surrender of the 
late Mrs Cs bond. But simply because it doesnt agree with the way the surrender was 
processed doesnt mean that Aviva has done anything wrong here. I think Aviva has set out 
the way it processes such surrenders and explained the dates it uses to calculate the final 
values. I think it made the late Mrs C aware of the process.
I also believe that its outstanding requirements had been met by 2 April 2019 and what 
subsequently happened was a clarification of how Mrs C would like the bond to be 
surrendered  which was unfortunately not answered for 10 days because Mrs C was 
indisposed due to poor health. But I dont think Aviva caused that delay and so I dont think I 
can reasonably hold it responsible and tell it to calculate the surrender value as of 
12 April 2019 and pay the estate any difference in values.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman