DRN-2005840
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Societys decision to review and subsequently 
close his account due to a third-party fraud claim.
Mr S says he has been left without money which rightfully belongs to him.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S advertised a phone for sale on an advertising site. Mr S confirmed he 
sold the phone and delivered it to the buyers family member.
Mr S says he sold the phone for £450, plus £50 delivery charge. The buyer transferred Mr S 
£600 and Mr S says he gave the buyers family member £100 in cash when delivered the 
phone.
A third-party bank contacted Nationwide and let them know their customer had been a victim 
of scam. The scam details involved Mr S and the credit of £600. 
Nationwide suspended Mr Ss account while they carried out a review. Following their 
review, Nationwide decided to return the £600 to the sending bank and close Mr Ss account 
with immediate notice. They said Mr Ss version of events differed from what the third-party 
bank had said  and Mr S didnt provide them with any sufficient evidence.
The investigator who reviewed Mr Ss complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she wasnt satisfied based on the evidence wed received that Mr S was entitled to the £600. 
She thought there was conflicting information provided in the evidence  such as the cost of 
the phone and the time Mr S provided his bank details compared to the time the money was 
received in his account. The investigator also wasnt satisfied Mr S withdrew £100 in cash to 
give to the buyers family member with the phone.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr S so Ive explained my reasons further below.
The account review and block
Nationwide are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Nationwide decide to review Mr Ss account when they received 
the notification of fraud from a third-party bank. Im satisfied Nationwide were entitled to 
carry out a review based on this information. Im pleased Nationwide considered Mr Ss 
version of events as part of their review.
Mr Ss version of events differ entirely from what Nationwide received from the sending 
bank. I appreciate Mr S says he sent Nationwide evidence of him selling the phone  but 
they say they didnt receive anything from Mr S. Therefore, based on the information they 
received they werent satisfied by what Mr S says happened.
Mr S has provided screenshots to our service showing a conversation between himself and 
the buyer. The screenshots confirm the phone price was £450 and the buyer offered £50 for 
Mr S to deliver it. The screenshots also show that the buyer sent £600 to Mr Ss Nationwide 
bank account and asked for the phone to be delivered with £100 cash as an extra present. 
Mr S has also provided our service with an email confirmation from the site he advertised the 
phone on. However, the email Mr S has provided confirms the phone was listed for £500. 
Having considered the evidence Mr S has provided alongside what hes told us, I do find that 
there is conflicting information. Therefore, Im not satisfied by Mr Ss version of events.
Ive also considered that Mr Ss screenshots show he provided his bank details at 
approximately 12.30pm  however Nationwide have provided evidence to show the £600 
credited Mr Ss account at approximately 07.45am on the same day. I cant find any 
reasonable explanation to confirm how the buyer of the phone could have sent the money 
before Mr S gave them his bank details. And therefore, Im not convinced at the authenticity 
of the screenshots.
Ive reviewed Mr Ss bank statements and I havent seen any evidence to show Mr S 
withdrew £100 in cash to give to the buyers family member as he says he did and as the 
screenshots suggest. Therefore, taking everything into account, Im not satisfied by Mr Ss 
version of events and based on the evidence, I cant agree Mr S is entitled to the £600.
In certain circumstances, Nationwide are entitled to close a customers account immediately. 
Having considered whats happened here, Im satisfied based on the terms and conditions of 
the account, Nationwide acted fairly when closing Mr Ss account and returning the £600 
back to the sending banks customer.
Overall, I think Nationwide have acted fairly in the circumstances of this complaint and 
therefore I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman