DRN-3959786
The complaint
Mrs B, whose daughter is acting on her behalf under a power of attorney (POA) and who has
brought this complaint on her mothers behalf, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest) have made it difficult for her daughter to manage her account.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. I intended to come to a different 
outcome to the Investigator, and so before I came to my final decision on the case, I wanted 
to give both parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider 
before I came to my final decision on the matter. 
The background of this case is as follows:
A number of years ago, Mrs B sadly fell victim to a scam, where she divulged her account
details to a fraudster. Mrs Bs daughter raised this with NatWest and security measures were
put in place to prevent this occurring again. Mrs Bs daughter says that NatWest placed a
security marker on Mrs Bs account. Mrs Bs daughter has recently found out that NatWest
no longer has a security marker on the account and is concerned about the safety of her
mothers account. NatWest has said that it doesnt feel it is necessary to apply a marker to
the account indefinitely  especially given that the scam happened a long time ago. It
confirmed it has processes and procedures in place to protect the integrity to its customers
accounts. And it didnt feel that a security marker still needed to be on the account.
Mrs B has a credit card facility with NatWest, and her daughter has a POA to assist Mrs B in
managing all of her accounts. Initially, Mrs Bs daughter experienced problems registering
the POA to the credit card account. Mrs Bs daughter attempted to use the webchat facility to
resolve the issue, however, she says she was given differing information on the chat.
NatWest has since resolved this issue and moved the POA from one account to the credit
card account.
Mrs Bs daughter has had a speech impairment since 2020, and when she contacts NatWest
she needs to use a service, Ill refer to as R, to help her communicate over the phone. Mrs
Bs daughter says that she has experienced problems using this service  in that some of
the contact numbers at NatWest dont support this facility and its staff arent trained
adequately enough to use the service. She also says that on one occasion where she was
able to use R to speak to a representative, the representative didnt wait for responses from
R and talked over her.
Mrs Bs daughter has also attempted to get access to Mrs Bs online banking facility so she
can help with the management of the credit card account. However, NatWest said that it can
only allow Mrs B to have this access. It agreed to send out statements to Mrs Bs daughter
so she could see the transactions on the account. Mrs Bs daughter was unhappy to find out
that the statements she was receiving werent copy statements, and that as a result of her
requesting statements, they were no longer being sent to her mother.
Mrs Bs daughter told this service that there was a short-term fix to the statement issue
whereby a team at NatWest were manually sending statements to her by email, but this
facility has now stopped and she no longer has access to the account in this way.
Essentially, Mrs Bs daughter says that it has been difficult and continues to be difficult to
manage her mothers account as a result of the issues shes faced with accessing the
account online and over the telephone. She feels NatWest are making it difficult for her to
carry out her role as an attorney. And these issues have only arisen since she developed a
speech impairment.
NatWest provided numerous responses to Mrs Bs various complaint points. NatWest
accepted that Mrs Bs daughter had, on occasion been provided poor service and so it paid
her daughter £250 to say sorry.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. Mrs Bs daughter
didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me to
make a decision on the matter.
Based on everything I had seen; it was my intention to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I have 
summarised the findings I made in my provisional decision below:
I didnt think it was unreasonable of NatWest to have removed the fraud markers 
from Mrs Bs account. The fraud took place some years ago now, and I didnt think it 
was necessary of NatWest to keep the fraud markers on the account indefinitely.
I did think that NatWest needed to do more to help Mrs Bs daughter manage Mrs Bs 
credit card account. I thought it fair and reasonable to allow Mrs Bs daughter access 
to manage the account online. And I set out what I thought NatWest needed to do to 
put things right. 
NatWest agreed with the findings in the provisional decision, although it explained that there 
were some limitations to what it could do to help. 
Mrs B also agreed with the provisional decision. However, she added that she wanted an 
accessible way for her daughter, as a speech impaired person, to be able to contact the 
fraud team in the future should she need to.
Since the provisional decision, I have been in touch with both parties to come to discuss a 
resolution that would be suitable for both parties. Having done this, I am now in a position to 
provide my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me again, it is my decision to uphold this 
complaint. 
I am still of the view that NatWest doesnt need to do anything further in relation to the fraud 
markers on Mrs Bs account. However, it should continue to monitor the account as it would 
normally, for any suspicious activity. I am aware that the security of the account is of 
particular concern to Mrs Bs daughter  this is understandable given whats happened in the 
past. NatWest has explained that if Mrs Bs daughter does need to contact the fraud team 
then she can do so through the secure chat facility online or through the mobile banking 
application.In relation to the management of the account, I am still of the view that, in the circumstances 
of this complaint, NatWest needs to allow Mrs Bs daughter access to Mrs Bs credit card 
account online. Both parties have now accepted this as a resolution. 
I have been in touch with Mrs Bs daughter separately to explain the process shell need to 
take to set up online credit card access on behalf of her mother. The process doesnt need 
both Mrs B and her daughter to be together at the time. But it will need Mrs Bs involvement 
to share authentication codes with her daughter. I appreciate from Mrs Bs point of view that 
this isnt ideal  as she will need to be involved in the process in some way. And Im sorry if 
she finds this process distressing. However, once the online access has been set up, there 
shouldnt be any issues with Mrs Bs daughter managing the account online going forward. I 
think this is a reasonable adjustment in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that from NatWests point of view, allowing Mrs Bs daughter online access in 
this way goes against the online accounts terms of use and its normal process  something 
NatWest has agreed to facilitate on this occasion. However, I wanted to add that Mrs B 
should be allowed the same fraud and security protection that she would have, had her 
daughter not had access to the online account. 
Putting things right
So, to put things right, I order NatWest to:
Allow Mrs Bs daughter to set up online access on behalf of her mother  
authentication codes will be sent to Mrs B, to share with her daughter to allow the 
registration. Mrs Bs daughter should be allowed to manage the account online going 
forward. 
Any ongoing passcodes that Mrs Bs daughter might need to access the credit card 
online should also be sent to Mrs Bs daughters mobile, email or home address.
Allow Mrs B the same fraud/security protection that she would have benefit from if 
the log in details werent shared.
Pay Mrs B £300 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused to her as a 
result of NatWest not being able to provide her attorney with proper access to help 
manage the credit card account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out about above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I order National 
Westminster Bank Plc to put things right for Mrs B by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman