DRN-3879430
The complaint
Mr A complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly avoided his home insurance policy 
after he made a claim.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr A took out a home insurance policy with UKI. The policy was renewed in 
March 2021. In July 2021, Mr A made a claim under the policy after the building and 
contents were damaged by a flood.
UKI arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property and validate the claim. Mr A was 
interviewed more than once. 
UKI then decided to avoid Mr As policy from March 2021. It said that when Mr A purchased 
the policy in March 2020 he had answered no to the question: In the last 3 years, have 
you or any adult living with you had any claims or losses. 
However, when Mr A made his claim for flood damage, it had come to light that he had 
suffered a theft/loss in February 2020. UKI said if it had been aware of this when Mr A took 
out the policy it wouldnt have offered it to him. 
UKI refunded some of Mr As premiums and refused to pay out the claim.
Mr A asked our service to consider his concerns. He disputed giving UKI inaccurate 
information when he took out the policy. Mr A said the incident in early 2020 was a dispute 
between him and his brother which he had reported to the police. The police had considered 
it to be a domestic dispute and refused to get involved. The items his brother had taken 
belonged to his late father. What was taken was considered inheritance, so there was no 
loss. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr As complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
UKI says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policy in 2020. Its sent us recordings of calls that took place in February and March 
2020. Its also sent us copies of the paperwork Mr A was sent at the time which includes a 
proposal confirmation with yes and no boxes ticked next to a list of questions.
The no box is ticked next to the question: Have you or any other adult living with you 
suffered any loss, damage or liability, whether insured or not, during the last 3 years other 
than listed below? and there isnt anything listed below.
UKI says it wouldnt have accepted Mr As policy application in March 2020 if he had made it 
aware of the theft/loss that allegedly occurred in February 2020. If UKI can show that Mr A 
made a qualifying misrepresentation, it might be entitled to avoid the policy Mr A took out in 
March 2020. However, UKI hasnt treated that policy as void. It has only treated Mr As policy 
as void from 6 March 2021, which is the date of renewal. With that in mind, I havent 
considered the March 2020 policy, and what was asked of Mr A then, any further.
When a consumer renews a policy, they take out a new consumer contract. This means that 
the duty for the consumer to take reasonable care not to misrepresent applies again. And 
the insurer also has to prove there was a qualifying misrepresentation at renewal in order to 
take a remedy available to it under CIDRA. Even if UKI had avoided the original policy (so it 
didnt exist), it wouldnt give it the right to avoid subsequent contracts formed at renewal. So, 
I need to consider whether or not there was a qualifying misrepresentation at renewal.
 
UKI has provided a copy of the documents it sent to Mr A around the time of renewal. These 
include a proposal confirmation document, similar to what was sent to Mr A in 2020. Once 
again, Mr A was asked to check the accuracy of the information on the form. However, there 
is no question about loss, liability or damage on it. Nor have I seen any other references to 
prior loss or theft in the renewal documentation Mr A was sent. So, Im not satisfied that Mr A 
made a misrepresentation relating to the alleged loss when the policy was renewed in  
March 2021. He wasnt asked a question. So, he cant have given an incorrect answer. It 
follows that I dont think it was fair for UKI to have avoided the policy for the period 6 March 
2021 to 5 March 2022 on this basis.
I set out what I intended to direct UKI to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr A said he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
UKI said the date in its voidance letter was incorrect. The policy was in fact void from 
inception after the date of loss had occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what UKI has said about the policy being avoided from the date of inception. 
However, this doesnt make a difference to the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
As I said in my provisional decision, avoiding the original policy (so it didnt exist), wouldnt 
give UKI the right to avoid subsequent contracts formed at renewal. Ive also explained why 
Im not satisfied that Mr A made a misrepresentation relating to the alleged loss when the 
policy was renewed in March 2021.
Putting things right
UKI should:
Reinstate Mr As policy for the period 6 March 2021 to 5 March 2022
Amend its records and any central database to make sure any record of the 
avoidance is removed.
Consider any claims according to the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman