DRN-1657581
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) 
administered the application process for his account.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr T called Amex to open a new account. Mr T asked what referral benefits 
were available to him as both his parents were existing cardholders.
 
Mr T said he was told about the following offers paid in Avios points. These are membership 
reward points available on selected cards. 
  
6000 Avios points if £1000 is spent in the first three months.  
6500 Avios points by opening the account when referred by his parents.
1000 Avios points for adding each of his parents as supplementary cardholders.  
Mr T said he was unhappy about the length of the call when setting up the account. He said 
the call had taken 2 hours and had been confusing.  
Two weeks later Mr T called Amex again as he'd received several cards  some of which 
were in the wrong name. Plus, Mr T didn't think Amex had applied the correct number of 
Avios points to his - or his parent's accounts.  
In their response, Amex said they hadnt been able to review Mr Ts call, but 
they  acknowledged the application process wasnt handled well during the 70- minute call 
with Mr T and his parents. Several accounts had been created - causing  Mr T to receive a 
number of cards in his and his fathers name.
 
Amex went on to say 7000 Avios points had been correctly applied to Mr Ts account. But 
they said a referral link hadnt been active on Mr Ts account at the time of the call. So, 
theyd credited Mr Ts account with 1000 Avios points to acknowledge the issues hed 
encountered when trying to set up a supplementary card via the link.
 
Amex credited Mr T's account with an additional 7500 Avios points in recognition of the 
issues Mr T had experienced while setting up the account.
 
As he didn't agree with Amex, Mr T brought his complaint to our service. Mr T said Amex 
should pay him 14,500 Avios points, and an additional 5000 Avios points as compensation. 
Mr T asked if the compensation could be paid in cash instead of Avios points. And he said 
several credit searches had been carried out at the time of the application  causing his 
credit file to be affected.
 
Our investigator's view was that Mr T's complaint shouldn't be upheld. The investigator noted 
Mr T had been credited with the correct number of Avios points. And she said as Mr Ts 
original complaint had been about Avios points, she thought it was reasonable for Amex to 
compensate him in the way they did.
 
As Mr T didn't agree with the investigator's view, the case was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to require Amex to take any further steps to resolve Mr T's 
complaint. I'll explain why. 
 
I've not been able to listen to the set-up call as Mr T's parents were involved in the 
call, and we weren't able to gain the necessary consent. But Ive considered what Mr T has 
said and the account notes provided by Amex.  
 
So, I've considered the following information provided by Amex from their web site at the 
time of Mr Ts' application.   
  
Welcome bonus  New cardmember will earn 5000 Avios if they spend £1000 in the first 3 
months (goes up to 6000 with referral bonus) 
 
Referral bonus  An existing card member refers someone new. The existing card member 
received 4000 points, and the new cardmember will receive a bonus when they reach a 
spending threshold. (in this case 1000 points) 
 
Supplementary bonus  Accounts related to BA will receive 1000 Avios when the first 
supplementary card is added. This is only available once for the first supplementary card." 
 
I can see from the account statements provided by Amex, Mr T spent over £1000 within the 
first three months. So, as I understand it, he would have been entitled to a total 7000 Avios 
points. 
 
5000 Avios points for spending £1000 in the first three months.  
1000 Avios points for the referral bonus. 
1000  Avios points when the first supplementary card is added to the account. 
Mr T thought Amex said he was entitled to 14500 Avios points. The call notes provided by 
Amex show Avios points were discussed. But as theres nothing to indicate Mr T was told he 
would receive 14500 Avios points. I think its more likely there was some confusion during 
the call rather than Mr T being told he was entitled to over double the points advertised on 
Amexs website at the time of the call.  
I can see Amex added a total of 7000 Avios points to Mr Ts account between November 
2019 January 2020. So, I can understand why there may have been some confusion as 
some of the bonus points were added after Mr T complained. 
But as I understand it, points are only added once the payments on the card changes from 
pending to complete. So, while Mr T expected the points to be added to his account straight 
away - the points were added at a later date. 
Given the terms of the card show Mr T should have received 7,000 points - which he did. I 
cant fairly say Amex should apply more Avios points to Mr Ts account. 
 Mr T has told us several cards were sent out to him when he first set up the account. And I 
understand why Mr T wouldve found the experience frustrating. But I can see from the 
account notes, Amex resolved this as soon as Mr T contacted them by cancelling the incorrect cards as some of the cards had been processed in his fathers name, as Mr T and 
his father share the same name.   
Amex then added a further 7500 Avios points in recognition of the issues he faced while 
setting up the account. Im satisfied this was a reasonable remedy is in the circumstances.   
Avios points are a British Airways product, and Im not persuaded it would be right for me to 
ask Amex to remove the points from Mr T's account in favour of a cash sum.  Mr T's original 
complaint was mostly about Avios points, and I don't intend to add any further 
compensation. I'm satisfied the compensation already offered by Amex fairly reflects the 
issues Mr T encountered while setting up the account.  
So, all that's left for me to consider is the issue raised by Mr T's about his credit file.  
 I've looked at the account report provided by Amex and can see there was one search at the 
time of Mr T's application. And as I've not seen anything to persuade me that Amex carried 
out the multiple searches described by Mr T. Based on the evidence, I'm satisfied Amex only 
carried out the one search documented on the account report.  
 In summary, Amex correctly applied 7000 Avios points to Mr T's account. In addition, Amex 
added a further 7500 Avios points to acknowledge the issues Mr T experienced when first 
setting up the account. Plus 1000 Avios points when a referral application failed.  
My final decision
I'm satisfied it was reasonable for American Express Services Europe Limited to resolve the 
matter in the way they did, so I won't be asking to do anything further in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman