DRN-4392572
The complaint
Mr H complains that when he asked Santander UK Plc for a very short extension to his 
mortgage offer, it said no. Then it issued the offer extension he wanted, but almost straight 
away told him this was a mistake. Mr H wanted Santander to honour the extended offer.
What happened
Mr H told us that he was purchasing a new-build property, and in April 2022 hed secured a 
mortgage offer from Santander. Santander had offered to lend Mr H £140,300, at 2.24% 
interest fixed until July 2027. This mortgage offer was due to expire on 30 September, but 
closer to that time, Santander told him that it was offering a blanket extension of one month, 
to run to 30 October. Santander offered this extension to all its customers, because of 
market conditions at the time.
Mr H said 30 October 2022 was a Sunday, so that meant to meet the mortgage offer
deadline, he needed to complete his purchase the Friday before this. And Mr H said those
involved pulled out all the stops to meet this revised deadline, but completion wasnt
possible, because the solicitor didnt have sight of one last document, a building warranty.
Mr H said both his solicitor and his broker asked Santander to grant a very short extension to
allow the purchase to complete. Mr H said although his solicitor didnt have this document on
Friday night, she did have it by Monday morning, so an extension of just a day would have
been enough. But he said Santander refused. So his solicitor had to send the money back.
Mr H still wanted to go ahead with his purchase, but he said he had to reapply for a new
mortgage. And mortgage rates had risen, so he would be paying much more.
Mr Hs broker hurried to reapply for a mortgage for him. Unfortunately, the best rate he could
secure with Santander was much higher, at 5.49% fixed until February 2028. And Mr H said
Santander had also decided to lend him less, even though hed had a substantial pay rise in
the meantime. It would only offer a mortgage of £132,249. Mr H said he couldnt afford the 
extra deposit himself, and was only able to go ahead because a family member could gift
him the extra money.
Then, just over a week after his solicitor had sent the money back, Mr Hs broker told Mr H
that on 3 November Santander had issued an extension to his old offer anyway, at the old
rate, valid only until 14 November. Mr H said his solicitor restarted work urgently to complete
within this period, but then Santander said this had been issued in error, and it wouldnt
honour the offer. Mr H said hed read the offer, it only allowed for the offer to be withdrawn in
specific circumstances, and none of those applied here.
Mr H said hed contacted Santander, complaining about 1) the refusal to grant a short
extension, 2) the withdrawal of the extension that was then granted, and 3) delays to the
issue of a new offer, after this, because of new affordability checks Santander claimed it
needed to do because of new information it received, which Mr H said Santander had from
the outset. But Mr H said Santander had only replied to the second of these three concerns.
It offered him £150, but Mr H said he was over £21,000 worse off because of what
Santander had done. He wanted it to honour its original offer.
Mr H said that, to make matters worse, hed heard since of someone else who was taking
out a new mortgage with Santander, who did get an extension to their offer.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had released the money for Mr
Hs mortgage, in line with the first offer, on 28 October. It was Mr Hs solicitors who then said
completion wasnt possible and the money had to be returned.
Santander said it wouldnt extend Mr Hs offer past 30 October 2022 unless it could identify
errors Santander itself had made, which prevented the mortgage from completing on time.
That just wasnt what had happened here.
Santander said it was sorry that it had then issued an extended offer by mistake. It said this
hadnt delayed its work on Mr Hs new offer, but it said this mistake shouldnt have
happened, and it understood this would have been upsetting for Mr H. Santander wanted to
pay Mr H £150 to say sorry for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Santander had
explained the very limited circumstances in which it will extend an expired offer, and that
wasnt what happened here.
She said she understood Mr Hs frustrations, but she couldnt say it was unfair for Santander
not to extend the offer further, or to have originally extended to a date on a weekend. And
she said Santander didnt do anything wrong by completing further checks when there were
changes to Mr Hs application.
Our investigator said Santander did make a mistake in sending out an extended offer on 3
November 2022. She accepted this must have caused confusion and disappointment. But
she thought Santander had made a fair offer, so she wouldnt ask it to do more than that.
Mr H replied to disagree. He said the distress caused to him, the inconvenience, and how
this wrongly issued offer affected matters with his solicitor and estate agent, warranted
significantly more than the £150 offered. Because no agreement was reached, this case was
then passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this 
case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Having reviewed the documentation which Santander has shared with us, I do think all
parties worked hard to try to ensure Mr Hs property purchase completed by 28 October,
before his first mortgage offer expired. I can see Mr Hs solicitors contacted Santander 
on 13 October, to say that given the urgency of this matter, they were sending through 
the certificate of title, even though they hadnt yet had sight of the building warranty for 
his new build home. But his solicitors said then that they would not complete the 
transaction without having sight of these. And Santander agreed to proceed on this 
basis.
Unfortunately, Mr H told us that his solicitors didnt get this warranty on 28 October, so 
they werent able to complete his purchase within the deadline for his first offer. I dont 
think that was Santanders fault.Mr H then asked for a short extension. Santander said no, but Mr H said Santander had 
said yes to other people. I think Santander has set out for Mr H the very limited 
circumstances in which it will extend an offer, and those just didnt apply to him. So I 
dont think Santander had to extend his offer.
But Mr H said Santander did extend. It sent him a new offer. Then it withdrew this, 
although none of the circumstances which allow it to do so were actually triggered here.
I realise this must have been very upsetting for Mr H, and Ill return to that below. I think,
here, that Mr H already knew Santander had turned down his request to extend. And
Santander does seem to have corrected its initial mistake quickly. I know Mr H wanted
Santander to honour this offer, but Im sorry to have to tell him that I dont think, just 
because this offer was issued, means that Santander has to honour the offer.
I think that I need to consider two possible effects of this mistaken issue by Santander of 
an extension to Mr Hs first mortgage offer.
Firstly, I think this mistake further upset Mr H, at what would already have been a very
stressful time. For that, I think that Santander should pay a little more compensation. I 
think it should pay £300 for what went wrong here.
Secondly, its possible that this led to some wasted solicitors costs, which Mr H would
otherwise not have incurred. I dont currently think thats whats most likely to have
happened here, because it seems likely that most of the work to complete Mr Hs 
purchase had already been done, before this mistake was made.
But if Mr H can provide evidence from his solicitors of charges or fees he incurred, 
solely because Santander issued an offer on 3 November which it then quickly 
withdrew, and if his solicitors can confirm that these are costs which Mr H only incurred 
because of that mistake, then I would consider asking Santander to cover those costs. I 
invite Mr H to send evidence of this, if he wishes.
Once Santander had withdrawn its extension to Mr Hs first offer, it then completed work 
on a second offer. Mr H said that there were delays here, because he said Santander 
had to carry out a fresh affordability check, after the second offer was issued, when it 
realised he would have to pay service charges for his new property.
I would expect Santander to carry out a fresh affordability check before issuing Mr Hs
second offer. And I understand that it decided then it could only lend him a little less 
than it initially offered. I think thats likely to have been simply because the cost of Mr Hs 
mortgage, as well as the cost of living generally, had unfortunately risen since the first 
offer was made. I dont think thats unreasonable or unfair.
I can also see, on Santanders internal notes, that it accepted it hadnt considered the
service charge when it issued Mr Hs second mortgage offer, and it said that this could 
affect the lending. I can see it didnt actually end up affecting Santanders decision to 
lend, and I think this was resolved quickly. But I do think this was an oversight by 
Santander. And it must have been distressing for Mr H, who was trying to prevent his 
purchase from falling through altogether, to find that he might lose another offer, through 
no fault of his own. So I think Santander should also pay £150 in compensation for the 
stress this mistake caused.
I will consider any further information or evidence that either side wants to supply before 
I finalise my decision. And I draw Mr Hs attention in particular to the comments I made above on solicitors costs. However, on the evidence Ive seen to date, I currently think a 
payment of £450 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I know Santander previously made an offer in this case. It doesnt look as if that has 
been paid. But just in case Mr H has accepted that offer more recently, Ill allow 
Santander to count towards this award, any payment it has already made for this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, and said he had nothing to add. 
Santander also replied, to say it accepted the decision. It said no payment had been made to 
Mr H for this complaint previously, so it would pay £450 now.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr H £450 in compensation. Santander 
UK Plc can count towards that amount, any money it has already paid Mr H for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman