DRN-1413181
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance ("PPI") policy taken out in 
1999. Mr H says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card. Mr H says things 
happened by phone. By Capital One's records show Mr H took out both the card and PPI by 
postal application. 
The policy provided protection for Mr Hs card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay a monthly benefit of 
10% of the outstanding card balance and it would do for up to 12 months per claim. Its basic 
cost was 69 pence for every £100 owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr H was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of 12 
months' pay. He said he had several thousand pounds in savings and stocks and shares he 
couldve used to make his repayments, and he was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr H chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr H disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr H's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr H's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr H have a choice about PPI? 
I said above that Mr H took out his credit card and PPI by postal application. Mr H says PPI 
must have been added without his knowledge.
Capital One has provided a copy of Mr H's credit card application. And here I can see that in 
the separate section about PPI, Mr H ticked the 'Yes' box to take the policy out. There was 
an equally prominent 'No' option which Mr H could've ticked if he didn't want PPI.So, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr H didn't have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant now remember this.
the information  
Because this was a sale by post with no staff member interaction, I'm satisfied that Capital 
One did not recommend the PPI to Mr H. So it didn't have to ensure that it was suitable for 
him. But it did need to give Mr H enough clear and timely information about the policy so he 
could make an informed decision about it.
The credit card application itself said very little about PPI - instead it referred Mr H to 
accompanying information. Because this was a postal sale I think Mr H would've likely paid 
more attention to the written material than if say he'd taken the policy out during a meeting 
where it's likely more reliance would be placed on what was said. If Mr H had read this 
information it would've likely given him much of what he needed to know. But I accept that 
the information Capital One gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, as I set out above, Mr H chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate 
for him - for example he was eligible for the cover, and he wasn't affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital One doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because it didn't tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including what he's said about his existing 
means he could've used to make his card payments. But these points dont change my 
decision.
Mr H might have had other means - perhaps reasonably significant other means - at his 
disposal and which he could've used to make his card payments. But I've already said that 
Mr H chose to take out PPI, and he did so without any interaction from Capital One. I've also 
not seen anything which leads me to think that Mr H understood the cover to be something 
very different from what it was.
So I think it's reasonable to assume that Mr H was interested in what the cover was 
designed to do. The policy would've paid out alongside any sick pay Mr H was entitled to. 
And because of the level of benefit of the policy, it had the potential to clear the outstanding 
balance in full.
I'm also mindful that, in looking at Mr H's credit card usage history, within six months of 
having the account his outstanding balance was nearly 70% of his credit limit of £5,000. And 
this wasn't a one-off event - Mr H carried not insignificant balances at various times. It's possible therefore that Mr H chose PPI because he knew he would have something to 
protect. 
So after careful consideration of Mr H's particular circumstances at the time, I think that if 
Capital One had done anything more, Mr H would've still decided that the cost and benefit 
proposition of the policy worked for him, and still - more likely than not - gone ahead and 
taken the policy out.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided that the PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Capital One 
(Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman