DRN-2469509
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer Finance 
has unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mrs M says that she found out in December 2019 that there was a marker when her 
application to another business was declined. The marker related to an application she 
made to Hitachi in August 2016. She doesnt accept that she attempted fraud.
Hitachi says that Mrs M made two applications for credit. In the first on 11 August 2016 she 
gave two addresses she had lived at. That application was declined. On 20 August 2016 she 
made a further application and gave a different address altogether and made no reference to 
the ones she had given before. One of those other addresses had adverse credit data 
recorded in her name. So, her application was declined again, and Hitachi registered the 
marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs M had disputed having 
any adverse credit data. But hed seen that she had entered into an arrangement to pay with 
a different business between July 2015 and January 2016 and again between May 2016 and 
September 2016. That information was linked to an address she hadnt disclosed in her 
second application. Mrs M hadnt provided any evidence to suggest that she had moved 
back to her parents address as she said she had in August 2016. But if that had been the 
case he didnt see why she wouldnt give her previous addresses as she had just nine days 
earlier. Both applications made online seemed to be to finance the same item and were 
made while Mrs M was in an arrangement to pay. He concluded that Mrs M didnt disclose 
the past addresses in an attempt to pass the credit checks on the second application. He 
saw no other explanation why those details could be so different. He was satisfied that 
Hitachi had sufficient evidence to justify the marker.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said that this wasnt a fair or proportionate action by Hitachi. She 
couldnt live at two addresses permanently. And she explained that she had been living at 
her parents for a significant period of time for personal reasons. The arrangement to pay 
was a temporary one when she had lost her job and struggled to find a new one. This is 
something that many people face, and she did her best to reach a constructive outcome. 
That business had later paid her compensation and she could provide evidence of that if she 
wanted. If isnt fair that one entry overshadows the entirety of her otherwise 99% good credit 
history. This is having a lasting effect and it is crucial that the marker is removed so that she 
can fully access credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Hitachi needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Mrs M has explained that at that time she had lived in several rental properties. The 
information indicates that she was last on the voters roll at her parents property in 2010. 
And that she was on the voters roll at the address where there was adverse credit from 2016 
and then through to 2018. And at the other address she gave on her first application from 
2013 to 2016. I dont doubt that as she says losing her job and the other personal issues she 
describes would be difficult for her. And she came to an arrangement to reduce the 
payments on a credit card with a different business as a result. She disputes that this is 
adverse credit information and while I accept its not as if she defaulted I cant agree that 
such information wasnt relevant to Hitachi and other lenders  and thats why it was 
reported. And the point is that whatever subsequent compensation that other business may 
have paid her the information wasnt removed. And based on what Mrs M says it appears to 
be an accurate representation of what happened.
The real issue here is why Mrs M having been declined for an application made on 11 
August 2016 then made a further application on 20 August 2016 with different address 
information. In my view the only plausible explanation is that she must have thought that 
would give her a better chance of a successful application. And I cant accept that it is 
reasonable for her to describe this as an oversight. There was no acceptable reason in my 
view for her to omit her past history. And I think it most likely she did this in an attempt to 
conceal her then current payment issues with a credit card and so the extent of her then 
other commitments. 
Hitachi says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mrs M made a fraudulent application. 
So, Ive looked at whether Hitachi was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it had, 
and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out 
checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially 
means that Hitachi needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. 
And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud 
or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mrs Ms account of events and the evidence Hitachi has provided, Im 
satisfied that Hitachi had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. I fully 
appreciate what Mrs M says about the impact the marker is having on her. But Im afraid I 
cant use that as a reasonable ground to find that the marker is unfair or to require Hitachi to 
take any further action especially as it hasnt made any error in applying CIFAS guidance.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman