DRN-2114343
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled the 
refund after his car insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr L bought a car insurance policy. As he didnt have a UK bank account, 
he asked his relative, who I will refer to as Mr G, to pay for it. Mr L said he then paid Mr G 
back. The policy premium was around £860.
In November 2018, due to Mr L updating his licence type and changing his address, he was 
refunded approximately £21. In January 2019, he added home insurance to the policy which 
resulted in a premium increase of around £57 to be paid.
However in January 2019, Admiral told Mr L that they would be cancelling his policy with 
immediate effect due to the policy being set up by an unauthorised party. They said all 
premiums paid would be refunded within ten days to the payment details held on the policy.
Mr L later complained that the refund wasnt received. Admiral said before they had the 
chance to refund the premiums, a chargeback was made in January 2019 and because the 
money was paid back by the bank, they didnt need to pay the refund. They advised if there 
were outstanding issues, this would need to be discussed with the bank directly as they had 
no involvement in the chargeback process.
Mr L sent Admiral banking reference codes to show the two premium amounts were initially 
refunded to Mr Gs account then re-debited in February 2019. However Admiral said as the 
money was recovered by the bank directly, no further refunds were due and the account was 
fully balanced. As Mr L remained unhappy, in July 2019 Admiral asked him to provide bank 
statements to support his complaint. Mr L didnt feel this was necessary as he had already 
provided banking reference codes to show the transactions but he provided the statements 
for Mr Gs account. Admiral looked into things further but maintained their position as 
explained above. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint was upheld. Having considered Mr Gs bank statements, they 
believed the money was initially refunded but was later re-debited. Not satisfied Mr L had 
successfully received the refund, they said Admiral should refund the premiums again. 
Admiral disagreed. They said they had fulfilled their obligation and they didnt challenge the 
chargebacks because they had already agreed the premiums should be refunded. They said 
the money being re-debited is beyond their control and its a dispute between Mr L, his 
relative (Mr G) and Mr Gs bank.
Following their opinion, the investigator received further information from Mr G. He explained 
he queried the transaction of £57 being paid to Admiral. As far as he was concerned, he had 
no policies with Admiral and they confirmed this was the case. He contacted his bank and 
they also made him aware that around £860 had also been paid to Admiral. In the belief 
there was suspected fraud, Mr G was advised to raise chargebacks for both transactions. 
Sometime thereafter, having spoken to Mr L, Mr G realised the above transactions had in 
fact related to Mr Ls policy with Admiral, he advised his bank the chargebacks were raised 
in error. The money was then re-debited to his account in February 2019. 
The investigator sent these further comments from Mr G to Admiral for their consideration. In 
response, they said they didnt challenge the chargebacks and as far as they were 
concerned they were processed successfully. 
The investigator issued a second opinion and said they accepted Admiral didnt make the 
refund as there had been chargebacks. However based on what Mr G had said and the 
supporting bank statements, they believed the chargeback was cancelled, which is why the 
money was re-debited. They concluded Admiral should refund Mr L his premiums plus 8% 
simple interest per year and pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Lastly 
they said if following the cancelled chargeback, Admiral hadnt received the money back, 
they will need to investigate this with their bank. Admiral responded that they were still 
unable to locate this money coming back to them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe the investigator has reached a fair outcome and I agree Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld.
It isnt in dispute as to whether Mr L is owed a refund, so I dont need to make this 
determination. However I must consider whether this money has indeed been returned to 
him. For the reasons explained by the investigator, I dont believe this has happened. 
By Admirals own admission, as chargebacks were raised before they had the opportunity to 
refund the premiums, they had no reason to challenge them. As far as they were concerned, 
the premiums had been paid back by the bank rather than them issuing the refunds directly.
However when Mr L told them that the premiums had been refunded and then re-debited, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Admiral to have determined what happened with the 
chargebacks. Given the circumstances, I believe it was fair for them to ask Mr L for bank 
statements so they could look into things further. However, even with these bank 
statements, they maintained the money had been refunded by the chargeback. Ive carefully 
considered Mr Gs comments and his bank statements and Im satisfied the transactions 
concerned relate to the chargebacks as they are for the same amount of premiums charged 
by Admiral. The statements show these amounts were initially refunded in January and later 
re-debited in February. I wouldve expected Admiral to have made queries with their bank 
about this and determined why the chargeback was reversed. Had they done so, its likely 
they wouldve realised the chargeback was cancelled, meaning the refund of the premiums 
was still owed to Mr L.
The above failings wouldve caused Mr A significant inconvenience. Having recently moved 
to the U.K, he couldnt afford not to receive this amount of money so it was clear a resolution 
was important to him and being told the money had already been refunded caused worry.  Overall, I believe Admiral couldve handled the situation better. I think there was sufficient 
evidence to show the chargeback was cancelled and Mr L hadnt received the refund 
meaning he was still out of pocket. Therefore I believe they should refund Mr Ls policy 
premiums plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date the policy was cancelled to the 
date of settlement. In addition, for the reasons explained above, I believe its fair to ask 
Admiral to pay £100 compensation to Mr L for the trouble and upset caused. To avoid any 
further confusion, the above awards should be paid directly to Mr L as he now has a UK 
bank account. 
If Admiral choose to do so, it will be a matter for them to resolve the issue with their bank if 
they still havent received the money back following the cancelled chargebacks. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
To put things right, Admiral Insurance Company Limited should:
-Refund Mr L the full premium amount plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the 
date the policy was cancelled to the date of settlement;
-Pay £100 to Mr L for the inconvenience caused;
-The above amounts should be paid to Mr L directly.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that it's required by HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much it's 
taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman