DRN-4074301
The complaint
Mr W, who is represented by a professional representative (F), complains that Capital One 
(Europe) plc didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) In relation to holiday products purchased between 2008 and 2014. The claim, 
which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Ws, because it relates to a credit card in his sole 
name. So I will refer to him as the purchaser although the products were purchased jointly 
with his wife.
What happened
Mr W made a number of purchases from a company which ran an overseas resort which I 
will call X. These were:
April 2008: Original purchase.
June 2008: Purchased an additional room.
October 2011. Upgraded one of the rooms
April 2014: Purchased an Accelerator
December 2014: Cancelled all his previous timeshare contracts and purchased a wellness 
spa room at a cost of £35,242.
I have seen evidence of three payments being made using Mr Ws credit card. One for 
£6,770 in October 2011, another for £6,600 was in May 2014 and the other was for £8,448 in 
January 2015.
In February 2017 F made a claim to Capital One saying the product had been 
misrepresented. It didnt specify which product was the source of the claim or identify which 
had been funded in full or in part by the Capital One credit card. It said that Mr W had no 
certainty as to when he could use the accommodation and he had been told acquiring a 
dummy room would allow him to exit the product. It also said that Mr W had been told that he 
could exit the product if he purchased one room and relinquished the existing products.
It said there had been a breach of contract as the contract was illegal under Spanish law. It 
said that as it was for a period in excess of 50 years it was null and void.
Capital One rejected the claim and said it had been made out of time. F brought a complaint 
to this service and I note the complaint form refers to only one transaction, which it said took
place in February 2014. The covering letter did not specify the factual background to the 
complaint and we have treated it as covering all the agreements funded by Capital One.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She said the claims in respect of the two 2009 purchases had been made out of 
time. She could not identify any evidence of misrepresentation or breach of contract for the 
October 2011 and April 2014 purchases. The final one was for a sum in excess of £30,000 
and so wasnt covered by s. 75 CCA.
F asked that the matter be considered by an ombudsman without giving any further 
explanation. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Neither Capital One, nor our investigator has challenged the claim against the first two 
purchases for which I have seen no evidence that they were funded by Capital One. It would 
appear that these were separate contracts and if neither were funded in whole or in part by 
Capital One then there is no basis for the claim F seems to have made.
However, as the apparent claim against these purchases have been considered by Capital 
One I have also considered if it was reasonable for Capital One to reject them.
Sections 56 and 75 of the CCA
Under s. 56 CCA, statements made by a supplier in relation to a transaction financed or 
proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a credit provider and the 
supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of s. 75 (1) CCA is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part;
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa or Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place in this case, so I must consider what Mr W 
has said about the sale and the actions of X.
However, I would add that the final purchase is not covered by s.75 CCA as has been 
explained by our investigator. S. 75 CCA does not cover purchases over £30,000 and this 
purchase was some £31,500.
Misrepresentation
Mr Ws primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against X. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr W into buying the 
first two holiday products were made on or before June 2008. Mr W did not however raise 
any complaint with Capital One until around February 2017, some nine years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that an English court would conclude that any claim for 
misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
As far as the next two purchases are concerned I cannot say that there is clear evidence of misrepresentation. Having looked at the documentation I cannot say that it contained 
anything which would allow me to conclude there had been misrepresentation. Of course I 
cannot say what was said at the time of each sale. I appreciate that the sales 
representatives will have put a positive gloss on the products but that does not mean there 
was misrepresentation by X. Mr W was given the occupancy of the two rooms he had 
agreed to and the fact that he was unable to make full use of them cannot be held as 
misrepresentation.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B CCA a court has the power to consider whether a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate orders in 
respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and refunding 
payments.
On the basis of what I have seen so far, however, there are no grounds on which I think I 
could properly conclude that there is an unfair relationship in this case. The main reasons 
given by F for saying there was an unfair relationship is the lack of availability and the 
alleged promise that the products could be terminated.
I have noted Mr Ws statement, but none of the documentary evidence, which is incomplete, 
provides the support which would allow me to say that there had been misrepresentation. I 
have seen nothing which says Mr W was guaranteed specific accommodation at a specific 
time. Nor have I seen anything which says that he was offered the opportunity to terminate 
the agreements early.
I appreciate the sales representatives would have emphasised the positives on each 
occasion, but that of itself does not amount to misrepresentation.
Subsequently it was suggested that the holiday club membership was unlawful under 
Spanish law. I can see no basis for concluding that the contract was subject to Spanish law. 
It was made with a company registered in the British Virgin Isles and was not signed in 
Spain. The prices were in sterling and does not involve any Spanish property. The findings 
of a Spanish court applying Spanish law do not appear to me to be directly relevant here.
Nor have I been able to identify anything in the documentation which requires it to last for 
over 50 years. The final agreement shows that the last year is 2045, but I cannot see the 
detailed terms and conditions which often allow for earlier termination. In fact I note the 
earlier agreements were ended and replaced with the last one despite having longer to run.
I concluded the complaint should not be upheld, but was open to hearing further arguments 
by both parties. Neither has put forward any further material though F said it would do so 
within the time limits but those have since passed by some nine days. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any additional material I have no reason to amend the conclusion I 
reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman