DRN-3308365
The complaint
Mr A complains that he could not access his share dealing account with Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited (HSDL) for several months. He wants compensation for the trading 
opportunities hes lost.
What happened
Mr A has dealt online with HSDL for several years. He says that in March 2020 he was 
unable to access his online account. He says he tried to phone HSDL, but the waiting times 
were too long. He successfully phoned in June 2020. HSDL referred to its IT team and 
raised a complaint.
HSDL said there were no faults with its system, Mr As account, or its online service. It said 
the error message Mr A received was due to a browser setting. It told Mr A to try a different 
browser or use a different device. Mr A told HSDL he had tried this but could still not gain 
online access. HSDL repeated the same advice. In its final response to his complaint, HSDL 
apologised that during the call it didnt offer to take Mr As dealing instructions by phone. It 
offered to pay him £50 for its mistake.
Mr A referred his complaint to us but, in the meantime, he phoned HSDL again. HSDL re-set 
Mr As password and he was able to successfully log on. HSDL apologised that this hadnt 
been done before.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
When Mr A contacted HSDL in February 2021, the member of staff offered to re-set 
his password and then stay on the line with him until he was successfully logged in or 
received an error message. He apologised that this hadnt been offered before. After 
around 10 minutes, Mr A was able to successfully access his account.
Its not clear why this procedure wasnt followed when Mr A first contacted HSDL on 
26 June 2020. Mr A made it clear that he couldnt proceed after inputting his 
username and password. Which would suggest a password problem, rather than a 
browser or device issue.
Its not clear why Mr A received the error message he did, rather than a prompt to re-
set his password. The member of staff and the complaint handler both told Mr A the 
problem was either with his browser or device  even though Mr A told them that he 
had tried various browsers and another device. And that he didnt have any problems 
accessing any of his other online accounts and services.
I find Mr A received poor service from HSDL in June and July 2020 and that this 
prevented him accessing his account for a further eight months. I can see he told 
HSDL in August that he still couldnt access his account, but I cant see that HSDL 
did anything more to help him.
And the member of staff who spoke to Mr A in February 2021 told him It was a 
relatively small issue and it shouldnt have taken so long to resolve.
I set out what I thought HSDL needed to do to put things right. I said:
HSDL should compensate Mr A for the poor service he received and the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Ive considered this very carefully. Mr A says he wants compensation for the trading 
opportunities hes missed. Hes not told us of any specific trades he wanted to place, 
although during one of his calls with HSDL he mentioned that he had cash that he 
could have invested. But I dont find Mr A was prevented from investing  he could 
have used HSDLs phone service. Whilst I appreciate the phone waiting times were 
long, there was a viable alternative to online trading available to him. So I dont find 
he should be compensated for not being able to trade online.
But I find Mr A was inconvenienced by HSDLs poor service. He had to phone HSDL 
several times and it was upsetting for him that HSDL did not seem to understand the 
frustration it was causing by insisting that Mr A needed to change browser or device 
when he had already tried this. He also explained that it was difficult for him to take 
time out of his working day to make the phone calls. HSDL offered Mr A £50 for 
failing to offer to take his dealing instructions by phone. In addition, I think it should 
pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
HSDL said the password reset procedure is self-explanatory and Mr A should have been 
able to do this himself. It said Mr A did not want to wait in a call queue with other customers 
and that my provisional decision removed all responsibility from Mr A. It said its call centre 
staff provided information in the spirit of courtesy.
Mr A gave details of three companies whose shares he says he would have purchased 
because prices were low. And he explained his trading history. He said trading required swift 
decisions which didnt work with long phone waiting times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDL seems to have forgotten or overlooked some of the detail of this complaint. Mr A did 
not receive a message to re-set his password. The message he received said:
Unfortunately we are unable to carry out your request. This may be because:
You used the back or forward button on your browser. This cannot be used in this 
process. 
One or more of our systems are unavailable. This means that you may not be able to 
proceed at this time. Please try again later.
I dont think Mr A should have reasonably realised this meant he needed to reset his 
password. And, whilst HSDL is defensive of its call centre staff, Mr A reported that he could 
not access his account online. HSDL should have been able to help him  and the fact that in February 2021 the member of staff was able to identify and easily fix the problem, 
suggests to me that it could have been resolved earlier.
HSDL suggests Mr A wasnt prepared to queue for his call to be answered. Naturally Mr A 
has expressed frustration about the call waiting times and this explains why he didnt call 
more often to try to resolve his problem. But he did call and on those occasions he did wait 
in a queue. 
I dont find HSDLs comments change my earlier conclusion.
Mr A has provided details of some shares that he says he would have purchased. Hes not 
provided anything specific, such as the day and time he was looking to trade, or the amount 
he wanted to invest. But, even if he had, I dont find it would make a difference to the overall 
outcome for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. Mr A could have used HSDLs 
phone service to buy shares. Its unfortunate that Mr A was without online access at a time 
when call waiting times were particularly long because of the Covid pandemic. And 
I appreciate what he says about the online service being more suitable for making swift 
dealing decisions. But if hed wanted to buy shares, he wasnt prevented from doing so 
because HSDL would have taken his order over the phone. So I dont find HSDL needs to 
compensate Mr A for any trades he couldnt complete online.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr A £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman