DRN-2339081
The complaint
Mr C complains about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG dealt with his claim against his 
travel insurance policy following the theft of his camera. Reference to ERGO includes 
reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
An insurer can set out its own definition of important terms in the policy. Mr C has 
referred to the Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary definition of gadget, but thats 
not the relevant definition here, as thats not what ERGO agreed to insure.  
Neither the definition of Gadget nor Valuables in the policy includes a camera. 
So, I dont think that ERGO  acted unfairly in proceeding on the basis that Mr Cs 
camera was neither a Gadget nor Valuables within the meaning of the policy.
Mr Cs camera does come within the policy definition of Personal Possessions, 
which includes personal effects. I dont think that ERGO was at fault in dealing with 
Mr Cs claim on that basis. 
The table of benefits sets out that the maximum ERGO will pay for a single item that 
comes within the definition of Personal Possessions is £300. Thats what ERGO 
offered to pay Mr C. The policy provides that ERGO wont pay any amount over the 
single item limit as shown in the table of benefits. 
I dont think that ERGO treated Mr C unfairly in applying the terms of the policy. 
There are no grounds on which to direct ERGO to pay Mr C any more.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman