DRN-3585304
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) provided him with credit 
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Creation approved a credit card application for Mr H in July 2018. The credit limit was set at 
£1,000 and doesnt appear to have been increased.
Mr H said that Creation should never have extended the credit to him as he couldnt afford to 
sustainably repay it.
Creation disagreed and have explained to us that there were no missed payments or County 
Court judgments on Mr Hs credit file when they reviewed it prior to making the decision to 
provide the credit.
Our investigator thought it was irresponsible for Creation to have provided credit to Mr H and 
as they disagreed with his opinion the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think Creation completed reasonable and proportionate checks before they approved 
the credit. Theyve provided very limited information to support that claim and whilst they 
have suggested they reviewed Mr Hs credit file I have seen no further evidence of that. 
They have also suggested that they assessed Mr Hs income as £1,400 but without 
knowledge of Mr Hs outgoings I dont think a reasonable assessment of affordability could 
fairly be said to have taken place.
So, Ive thought about what information Creation would have been likely to discover if they 
had completed reasonable and proportionate checks. Mr Hs credit file showed he had credit 
commitments of around £15,000. There was a utility bill that he hadnt paid anything towards 
for over six months and to which he owed about £3,300. There were about five short term 
loans showing on his credit file that I think suggested he was struggling to afford his 
everyday expenses. The repayments on his loans alone were over £550 a month and if Im 
to assume the £1,400 per month Creation considered was his income before tax his take 
home pay would only have been about £1,230. That left very little to go towards Mr Hs living 
expenses. I dont think it was likely, on that basis, that Mr H would have been able to 
sustainably afford repayments towards this credit advance.
I therefore dont think the credit was affordable for him.
Creation have pointed out that Mr H has managed to keep up with his repayments since the 
credit was provided. Even if that is the case I dont think it was fair, in the circumstances that 
prevailed at the time of the lending decision, to create further indebtedness for Mr H.
Putting things right
As I dont think Creation should have provided the £1,000 credit, I dont think its fair for it to 
charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. However, Mr H 
has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he should pay that 
back. Therefore, Creation should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded). 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Creation should also remove all adverse information recorded 
regarding this account from Mr Hs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is an outstanding balance, Creation should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once Mr H has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded in relation to the 
account should be removed from his credit file. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires a deduction of tax from any award of interest. The 
business must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he 
asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services Limited to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman