DRN-2774706
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc when he needed to open 
a new account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
HSBC has not disputed that Mr D didnt receive the service he should have when 
opening a new account. It has set out the time-line of the issues that occurred and 
apologised for the delays. HSBC ultimately offered Mr D £200 compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt think this was enough to recognise the impact on Mr D  
particularly, as the account was needed following the passing of a close family 
member and was intended to be used for the distribution of funds from the estate. 
She recommended that HSBC should increase its offer of compensation to £400 in 
total.
HSBC agreed to the increase in line with our investigators recommendation. But    
Mr D didnt agree. He thought the investigator had recommended an additional £400 
compensation i.e. £600 in total.
As the complaint points Mr D has outlined arent in dispute, my role here is to decide 
whether £400 in total is enough to fairly recognise the upset and inconvenience Mr D 
experienced or if HSBC should do more.   
Id like to express my condolences to Mr D for his loss of a close family member. And 
reassure him that I do appreciate that having to deal with problems opening a new 
account  which should generally be quite a straightforward arrangement, would 
have made things worse at an already upsetting time.  
So, Ive thought carefully about the impact HSBCs service had on Mr D overall. This 
includes the reason the account was needed, the time he spent on the phone, having 
to visit a branch during the Covid-19 pandemic and that it took a few months for the 
situation to be resolved.  
But overall, I agree with our investigator and consider £400 to be a fair reflection of 
the inconvenience he has been put to and the upset he has suffered. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed with my findings as he was hoping for a higher 
amount of compensation. But, in the circumstances, Im satisfied £400 is fair 
compensation given all the circumstances in this case. 
Putting things right
HSBC Bank UK PLC should pay Mr D £400 in total (if it hasnt already done so) in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I order HSBC Bank UK PLC to 
settle the complaint as per the section putting things right above if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman