DRN-3541140
The complaint
Ms H (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete proper affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility or at each new instance of borrowing. 
What happened
Ms H approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2015. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms H was not advanced a payday loan. 
Ms H was initially given a facility with a £200 limit in March 2015. Her limit was then 
increased on eight separate occasions taking her credit limit to £720 by December 2015. 
SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service that as of May 2022 Ms H still owed it 
£946.37.
An adjudicator looked at Ms Hs complaint and he thought SNC shouldnt have granted the 
facility. He said SNC had overestimated Ms Hs income, she had a history of repaying 
significant amounts each month to other high cost short term lenders. Which in the 
adjudicators view meant the facility wasnt affordable given on top of her repayments she 
had day-to-day living costs. 
Ms Hs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Ms H to allow her representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Ms Hs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer whether authorisation has been 
given to the representative is reasonable and has her privacy and data protection in 
mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns and he explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Ms Hs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought carefully about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Ms H 
complained through her representative to SNC in September 2021 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Ms H hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 15 November 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 
23 November 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. 
It is now eight months later and nearly a year since the complaint was originally made, but 
the firm nonetheless disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is 
clearly wrong in my opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of Ms 
Hs complaint, which is what I have gone on to do in the next part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Ms H wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Ms H this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending. 
Throughout the lifetime that Ms H had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to her 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Ms Hs finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Hs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Ms Hs facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Ms 
H would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 each month by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Hs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for 90 days preceding the facility being granted. It 
then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Hs income and expenditure was, and after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms H could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results would on their own  
have led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks 
into Ms Hs situation before the facility was approved.
So, SNC may have reasonably believed based solely on the income and expenditure 
information that Ms H may have been able to afford her repayments. However, there were 
other indicators within the bank transaction data that has led me to conclude that Ms H 
couldnt afford the facility.  
Having reviewed the transaction data from her bank statements, I agree with the adjudicator, 
that the facility wasnt affordable and knowing this SNC shouldnt have granted it. 
Firstly, the income that Ms H declared to SNC as part of his application of £1,200 per month 
seems consistent with the payments I can see from her salary. She received £1,254 in 
January 2015 and £1,175 in February 2015. There were also additional credits each month 
but even taking those into account Ms Hs income wasnt as high as SNC believed. SNC 
said her income was around £2,000 per month but like the adjudicator I think its more likely 
than not at least £500 less than that. 
In addition, each month that SNC had the transaction data available for, it could see that 
Ms H was borrowing each month from the same high cost short term lender  with 
repayments due to this lender of around £500 each month  which is a not insignificant 
amount of her income. 
Ms H was also regularly taking loans from a credit union, in February 2015 I can see the 
repayments to the credit union and the high cost short term lender came to nearly £900. At 
the end of February 2015  so shortly before this facility was approved, Ms H borrowed 
another £400 from the high cost credit provider  so this wouldve needed to be repaid 
during the time when Ms H had to make repayments towards the facility. 
On top of this, there were also living costs that Ms H had  for example, I can see what 
appears to be a rent payment of £328 and I can also see payments towards food and travel. 
There are also a number of cash withdrawals (which occur each month) so its likely some or 
all of those withdrawals went towards her living costs.In the month before the facility was approved, Im satisfied that Ms Hs living costs and her 
credit commitments came to more than her income, so Im not sure how SNC believed that 
Ms H had any disposable income to be able to afford the repayments towards this facility. 
Clearly, based on the information SNC had available to it, Ms H wasnt in a position to afford 
the repayments towards this facility because she didnt have sufficient funds in which to 
cover her existing credit commitments and her living costs.  
Overall, given what Ive seen in the transaction data Im upholding Ms Hs complaint and I 
dont think SNC shouldve approved the facility.  
Putting things right
SNC shouldnt have approved the facility for Ms H and Ive outlined below what it needs to 
do in order to put things right for her. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account.
B) Treat all payments Ms H has made towards their account since the start as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms H wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms H. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Hs credit file 
about this facility from the start.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint in full and Indigo 
Michael Limited should put things right for Ms H as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman