DRN-3244967
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) declined his claim for loss 
under his mobile phone insurance.
What happened
Mr F had mobile phone cover through a paid for service with his bank account. AGI was the 
underwriter of the policy. He bought a new phone but realised it was missing when he 
arrived home from the shop. Mr F thinks he may have left it in the shopping trolley by 
accident. He made a claim under his policy with AGI and it asked for proof of ownership. Mr 
F provided a copy of the receipt, but he didnt know the phone serial number (IMEI - a 
number unique to the phone). The shop couldnt help.
AGI declined Mr Fs claim explaining that the policy allowed it to do so if he couldnt provide 
evidence of ownership, including the IMEI.
Mr F complained and brought his complaint to our service. AGI then offered him £250 to 
settle his complaint, which he declined.
Our investigator didnt think AGI had treated Mr F fairly. She thought the terms of the policy 
didnt make it clear that Mr F needed the IMEI, and she thought hed provided sufficient 
evidence of ownership. Our investigator also pointed out that Mr F had never even opened 
the box so he couldnt be expected to have a record of the serial number.
AGI didnt agree. It pointed to a similar complaint this service had decided with a different 
outcome, and repeated its position that the terms of the policy allowed it to decline the claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue is that AGI declined Mr Fs claim for loss of his phone, relying on the policy terms 
and conditions, for circumstances in which he didnt think it was fair to do so.
The relevant part of the policy says: 
Actions you will need to take on loss, theft, breakdown or damage to your mobile phone
Proof of Ownership
We need to know that the mobile phone, SIM card and accessories you are claiming for 
are yours. Therefore you will need to provide some form of proof of ownership.
You will need to be able to tell us the make and model of your mobile phone. We may ask 
to see something that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to you and 
confirms the make, model, memory size and IMEI number of your mobile phone. You can 
find [the IMEI] by inputting *#06# into your mobile phone. It should also be noted on the 
documentation that came with your mobile phone when you purchased it. If you dont 
have any proof of ownership we may decline your claim.
Looking at this, I think its clear that AGI expects Mr F to provide proof of ownership. A 
receipt showing purchase is generally accepted as evidence of this, and Ive seen that Mr F 
provided AGI with his receipt, clearly showing that he bought a mobile phone. The make and 
model shown on the receipt matches that for which he claimed, and his bank statement 
shows a matching purchase. So, Im satisfied that Mr F provided proof of purchase and, 
therefore, ownership.
AGI says that because Mr F cant provide it with the IMEI, he hasnt fully demonstrated 
ownership. So, Ive thought about why that matters more than the evidence Mr F did provide. 
I note AGI told Mr F that without the IMEI it cant blacklist the phone.
Considering the overall circumstances then, Ive thought about whether it was fair for AGI to 
expect Mr F to provide the IMEI. I dont think it was for the following reasons:
Mr F had just bought the phone so its reasonable that he hadnt opened the box to 
identify the IMEI before hed even got home.
Its also reasonable to accept that he didnt take a photo of the serial number on the 
outside of the box immediately after purchase.
The policy doesnt say he must provide the IMEI, just that AGI may ask for it. 
Ive considered what Mr F did to try to find out the IMEI. He says he contacted the shop, but 
it hadnt recorded the information, and his receipt only had the make and model number on 
it. Its not Mr Fs fault that the shop didnt record the serial number and I cant see that there 
was much else he could do in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr F provided proof of ownership in line with the clear requirement 
of the policy. Although AGI wanted the phone serial number, it wasnt clear in the policy that 
it was an absolute requirement. Even so, in the circumstances, I can understand why Mr F 
wouldnt necessarily have had the serial number anyway, given that hed only just bought the 
phone.
AGI brought to my attention another, similar, complaint where the outcome reached was 
different. Ive looked at the complaint in question but as the circumstances are different, I 
see no reason to reach a similar outcome.
Finally, I understand Mr F is unhappy that AGI offered him a settlement dependent on 
whether he continued with his complaint. AGI didnt think it had done anything wrong but, to 
bring the matter to a close, it made a settlement offer. AGI is entitled to try to resolve a 
complaint in a way which it sees fit so I wont be commenting on this issue further.In summary, I dont think AGI treated Mr F fairly when it declined his claim for the loss of his 
phone. To put matters right, AGI should reconsider his claim in line with the remaining terms 
of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Assurant 
General Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Fs claim for the loss of his mobile phone in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman