DRN-3782618
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lent to her irresponsibly when it 
gave her a loan that she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Mrs W is represented by her husband, Mr W.
Mrs W took out an unsecured loan for £25,000 with Barclays in July 2019. She did this at a 
time when she was experiencing long term mental health difficulties of depression and 
anxiety which, she says, caused her to act irresponsibly when it came to spending money.
Mrs W says that Barclays failed to exercise skill, care and responsibility in providing that loan 
because it didnt make sufficient checks about her individual financial position. She thinks 
Barclays was negligent in allowing her to take the loan.
Mrs W also complains about the interest rate she was charged.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint about this lending. Mrs W disagreed. She 
said that as she already had a banking relationship with Barclays it should have taken into 
account that she had both a credit card with a substantial amount owed on it and a current 
account which was in overdraft. As she had told Barclays that she was using the loan to 
consolidate other debt she believes Barclays should have made more checks before lending 
to her. Mrs W thought that Barclays shouldnt have taken into account the joint bank account 
she held at Barclays with her husband and that if Barclays had known about other money 
she owed elsewhere, that it wouldnt have lent to her. Mrs W says that she believes that 
Barclays and this service indirectly discriminated against her because of her disability.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mrs W made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators view her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
Mrs Ws submissions have been lengthy and detailed. I do not intend to repeat them in full 
here, but Mrs W should be reassured that I have considered all of them. In summary they 
are that:
Barclays failed to exercise skill, care and responsibility when offering a large 
unsecured loan.
Barclays should have been more careful, taking into account the management of Mrs 
Ws current account and that she was borrowing for debt consolidation.
Barclays should not have taken into account a joint account Mrs W held with her 
husband when considering affordability of the loan.
It is insufficient for Barclays to say that it was unaware of Mrs Ws mental health 
conditions. It should have made contact with Mrs W personally to understand her 
situation as it was such a large loan.
Barclays broke its own lending procedures for lending to the self-employed, which 
required diligent follow-up and financial analysis on the ability of Mrs W to repay the 
loan. 
Barclays should have asked Mrs Ws employment status. She was self-employed 
under a fixed share agreement which may not have been a reliable source of income.
In not upholding Mrs Ws complaint this service is guilty of indirect disability 
discrimination pursuant to the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 and 20005 [sic] 
because it has not taken into account Mrs Ws impaired decision making abilities at 
the time of taking the loan.
Barclays needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ws income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclays should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include things 
like understanding Mrs Ws income, the total amount Mrs W borrowed, and the length of time 
Mrs W had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
In Mrs Ws case, she already had an existing relationship with Barclays, so it was able to 
review the conduct of her accounts and establish whether it considered the loan repayments 
to be affordable. While her sole account was in overdraft, her joint account with Mr W  into 
which both their salaries/income were paid - was in good order. Mr W says that their joint 
account shouldnt have been used to decide whether Mrs W was in a position to repay the 
loan. But they had chosen to link their finances with this joint account, so Barclays was 
entitled to use this information in its assessment.
A credit check revealed nothing of concern and a credit reference agency report supplied to 
this service by Mrs W showed that her reported finances were healthy, with no defaults, 
arrears, CCJs or bankruptcies visible and no suggestion of unmanageable borrowing. In 
early 2022 her credit score was deemed excellent with no evidence of financial problems in 
the preceding few years.  
Mrs Ws representative explains that Mrs W was self-employed under an agreement where 
she was paid depending on profits made by the company. He says that as she was self-
employed Barclays should have made further enquiries about whether the income she 
received was reliable. I dont think Barclays needed to do that given the information it already had about her income over a number of years and the other information available to 
it about the affordability of the borrowing. 
Mrs Ws representative says that Mrs W had lots of unreported borrowing  borrowing that 
didnt show up on official records -  some of which was owed to family (including himself), 
and that she was jointly liable for other lending, too.
I have no reason to doubt that Mrs W may have owed money to other people, including her 
own husband, in private arrangements but it is not reasonable under the circumstances to 
have expected Barclays to make enquiries about other informal borrowing, especially if the 
repayments were not making any obvious impact on her reported finances. 
I asked for more information about other joint liabilities such as credit cards, as they were not 
evidenced in the credit reference report provided. Mrs Ws representative explained that 
other borrowing on credit cards was actually in his name  he was the lead account holder, 
but Mrs W had a linked card for which it was agreed between them that she would pay any 
balance accrued by her.
This explains why Barclays wouldnt have seen any of this lending. Mrs W wasnt 
responsible for it and it was Mr Ws choice to have an additional card holder on his account. 
He was solely responsible for making the repayments, and they would not have appeared on 
Mrs Ws credit file, regardless of whatever personal arrangement he had with his wife about 
repayments. 
Having reviewed the checks Barclays made and the information available to it I do not think 
it made an unreasonable decision to offer the loan to Mrs W. 
I have thought carefully about Mr Ws argument that Barclays did not meet its obligations 
under the Disability and Discrimination Act 1995 because it did not make enquiries directly 
with Mrs W which may have revealed her chronic disability which made her particularly 
vulnerable. I think Mr W is actually referring to the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. Having reviewed Mrs Ws 
complaint in full I cant see that she made Barclays aware of her disability prior to the lending 
decision. And I cant see that there were any obvious indicators that she may have needed 
additional support that the business failed to pick up on. So, I dont think Barclays has 
behaved unreasonably or unfairly in regard to her disability in this instance. If Mrs W wants a 
decision that Barclays breached the Equality Act 2010, then she would need to go to court to 
resolve this. 
Mrs Ws representative has also complained about the interest rate charged on the loan. 
This is a commercial decision for Barclays and if Mrs W had not wanted to pay that interest 
rate she could have sought an alternative loan with another provider. 
In conclusion, I do not think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mrs W 
and so I do not think Mrs W lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong. It follows that 
I do not think Barclays needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank UK Plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman