DRN-3104328
The complaint
Ms H complains that Aviva Insurance UK Limited (Aviva) hasnt progressed her legal 
expenses insurance claim, in relation to medical negligence, fairly. 
Aviva uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses policy and manage claims on its 
behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator  and Ill explain 
my reasons below. But, before I do, Id like to say how sorry I am for the circumstances that 
led to Ms Hs legal expenses insurances claim. Given what happened, I can appreciate her 
strength of feeling about the matter. But its important that I emphasise that my decision will 
focus on the action (or inaction) of Aviva and its requirements under the policy terms and 
conditions which both parties contracted into. 
Ms H submitted a claim to Aviva in July 2020 and the claim was accepted a few days 
later. Aviva appointed a panel solicitor, but Ms H was unhappy with this appointment. 
So she provided details of an alternative firm and Aviva sent over the terms of 
business  but the firm didnt agree to these. The policy terms make it clear that a 
lawyer will only be appointed if they accept the standard terms of appointment. So, I 
dont think Aviva acted in error here  it isnt required to amend its terms of business 
to facilitate the appointment of a solicitor.
In August 2020, Aviva offered an alternative panel solicitor. Aviva assured Ms H of its 
experience, but she had doubts about its level of expertise based on a telephone 
conversation shed had with them. Aviva provided the details of the individual at the 
firm and confirmed their experience in medical negligence matters. But Ms H didnt 
wish to proceed with them. Im persuaded that Aviva took reasonable action in 
providing a choice of solicitors and then ensuring the solicitor had the relevant 
experience required. And I cant see that it caused any unreasonable delays here.
Aviva tried to engage with the firm Ms H had originally hoped to appoint. The firm 
asked for medical records in order to carry out a legal assessment of the claim. But in 
September 2020, the firm contacted Aviva to let it know it hadnt been able to take 
any action as Ms H hadnt complied with its requests to provide documentation or 
forms of authority. I cant see that Aviva can reasonably be held responsible for any 
delays caused here  it appears that this is a matter between Ms H and the solicitor, 
which isnt something I can look into.
In October 2020, Aviva offered another alternative panel solicitor. Based on 
information provided, it appears that this solicitor tried to call Ms H but that she hadnt 
received any formal documentation so felt uncomfortable proceeding. In November 
2020, Ms H emailed Aviva to close the claim  this was done in late November 2020. 
Again, I cant look into the communication between Ms H and the solicitor, but I note 
that while formal documentation might not have been provided, Aviva had notified 
Ms H that the solicitor would be in touch  and it was. So Im not persuaded that 
Aviva acted in error here. And I wouldnt have expected it to take any further action 
after being asked to close the claim.
In January 2021, Ms H contacted Aviva to re-open the claim, as it seems she felt she 
could work with the last panel solicitor offered to her. But it appears that she changed 
her mind several days later and provided details of another solicitor. There was a 
hearing due to take place on 25 January 2021, but information from Aviva suggested 
it didnt receive any correspondence from the solicitor until 18 January 2021. It sent 
policy details and terms of business over on 26 January 2021  and these were 
returned in February 2021. I recognise that this was after the hearing but I dont think 
this was an unreasonable turnaround time from Aviva, and I cant see that it was 
responsible for delays here.
Aviva sent the claim to be assessed for its prospects of success in March 2021  
something that hadnt been done prior to this as either Ms H hadnt been willing to 
proceed with the solicitors offered or put forward; or the solicitors hadnt agreed to 
the terms of business. But Ms H told Aviva, also in March 2021, that her solicitor was 
no longer involved in the case. So Aviva paused on the prospects assessment as 
Ms H no longer had legal representation. I dont think it was wrong to do so as, even 
if there were good prospects of success, Ms H would have required legal 
representation to progress.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly. I note that it 
tried to engage with Ms Hs chosen solicitor which had initially declined the terms of 
business. I also note that it got back in contact with a panel solicitor that Ms H had 
indicated she could work with  but the solicitor didnt agree to proceed. So I think 
Aviva did what it could reasonably have been expected to  it offered a choice of 
solicitors, with the relevant expertise, and also allowed Ms H to choose her own 
representation when these didnt suit. And it tried to intervene when it was clear there 
was an issue with sourcing a suitable firm. I cant fairly expect it to have done more. 
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or caused any 
unreasonable delays. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman