DRN-2887684
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc approved him for credit accounts and later 
increased the credit limit on one of those accounts at times when such credit was 
unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Capital One in July 2015. Mr As application was 
successful, and Mr A was issued a credit card with a credit limit of £200. The credit limit on 
this account did not subsequently increase and remained at £200.
In March 2016, Mr A applied for a second credit card with Capital One. Again, Mr As 
application was successful, and Mr A was issued with a second credit card, this time with a 
credit limit of £1,000.
In December 2016, Capital One increased Mr As credit limit on the second card from £1,000 
to £1,750. In October 2017, Capital One increased Mr As credit limit again, this time to 
£2,500.
Repayments to both cards stopped in July 2017 and both accounts were subsequently 
defaulted in December 2018.
In October 2020, Mr A complained to Capital One on the basis that the credit that they had 
provided had been unaffordable for him at those times. Mr A also contended that Capital 
One should have been aware of the poor financial position that hed been in at those times, 
had they undertaken relevant checks into his financial position before approving him for 
credit.
Capital One looked at Mr As complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken reasonable 
checks into Mr As financial position, both at the times that hed applied for the credit cards, 
and at the times that Capital One had increase his credit limit on the second card. 
Furthermore, Capital One maintained that there was nothing resulting from the checks that 
theyd undertaken that should have given them cause to suspect that the credit might not be 
affordable for Mr A at those times. Because of this, Capital One didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Capital One 
had undertaken reasonable checks, and that these hadnt shown anything which meant that 
Capital One should have reconsidered their decision to offer Mr A credit. So, our investigator 
also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks into their customers financial position at the 
time that the credit was being offered, to check whether any credit being offered is affordable 
for that customer at that time.
Capital One say that theyve done that here. At the time of the credit card applications they 
took information directly from Mr A about his income and expenditure to check whether Mr A 
could afford the potential credit repayments, and they checked Mr As credit file in order to 
get a better understanding of Mr As wider financial position.
Additionally, at the time of the credit limit increases, Capital One assessed the historical 
management of Mr As existing credit accounts with them so as to check for indications that 
Mr A might be struggling to maintain his existing credit line, as well as again checked Mr As 
credit file to update their understanding of Mr As wider financial position at that time.
In all instances, Capital One maintain that there was nothing that resulted from the checks 
that they undertook which they feel should have caused them to consider that Mr A couldnt 
afford the credit being offered to him at that time. And, having reviewed the information 
assessed by Capital One when offering credit to Mr A here, I find it difficult to censure 
Capital One for the position that theyve taken here.
Its important to reiterate that my review doesnt consider whether the credit being offered to 
Mr A was affordable for him at those times, but instead focusses on whether the information 
available to Capital One was such that they ought reasonably to have considered whether 
the credit being offered to Mr A was affordable for him at those times.
This is an important distinction, and while I can appreciate that Mr A may well have been 
experiencing financial difficulties at the times that he applied for credit, and at the times of 
the credit limit increase, I dont feel that I can fairly say that such financial difficulties should 
have been readily apparent to Capital One at those times, such that they shouldnt have 
offered the credit.
I say this because, at the time of the credit account applications, the information that Capital 
One gathered directly from Mr A and from Mr As credit file appeared reasonably to 
demonstrate that Mr A had sufficient monthly income to be able to afford the credit being 
offered. Furthermore, while Mr As credit file did highlight a prior default and some other 
existing borrowing, the default wasnt in the immediate recent past, the existing borrowing 
wasnt excessive, and Mr As recent management of his existing credit appeared to be 
responsible and without incident.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Capital One acted unfairly toward Mr a by approving 
him for credit accounts when presented with this picture. And its similarly difficult to 
conclude that Capital One should have considered that Mr As financial position had 
deteriorated at the time of the credit limit increases. And I say this because at those times, 
Mr A had been managing his Capital One accounts responsibly and without incident, and 
there was also nothing on Mr As credit file that might suggest that his wider financial 
position was worsening such that the credit limit increases appeared unaffordable for him.
Im aware that Mr A feels the increased amount of borrowing from other creditors that hes 
taken in the time leading up to the credit limit increases was such that Capital One should 
have made the conclusion that he might be struggling financially, and that Capital One should have undertaken more robust checks as a result of this conclusion  which would 
have demonstrated that his financial position was in fact deteriorating.
I can appreciate Mr As position here  to a degree  but while it was the case that Mr As 
amount of external borrowing had increased, Im not convinced that it had increased to a 
point where it was reasonable for Capital One to have had reservations about Mr As total 
amount of existing credit such that they might have had cause to consider that the credit limit 
increases being offered werent affordable for Mr A at those times.
As a consequence of this, Im also not convinced that Capital One should have had any 
cause to consider that undertaking more robust checks into Mr As financial position was 
appropriate at those times, and Im satisfied that the checks that Capital One did undertake  
as described previously  were reasonable and proportionate and in line with what this 
service would expect here.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Capital one to take any 
further action at this time. This is because, ultimately, Im satisfied that the information that 
Capital One had available to them at the times of the credit offerings to Mr A was such that it 
was reasonable for Capital One to have concluded that the credit being offered was 
affordable for Mr A at those times.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr a was wanting here, but I hope that he can 
understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman