DRN-4423591
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund him the amount 
he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr A was contacted by an individual (X) over a popular dating app in early July 
2022. Mr A got talking to X and started to build trust with her sharing information and 
realising they wanted similar things from life.
Before long Mr A was communicating with X via messages and calls and the conversation 
turned to that of investment in cryptocurrency. X explained that the profits made from 
investing could help support their future together.
Mr A was sceptical of the investment at first but was comforted by Xs professional attitude 
and that she was sending screen shots of a trading platform that appeared to show she was 
making a fair return from investing herself.
Convinced by X Mr A agreed to start investing. X walked Mr A through creating a 
cryptocurrency account with Banxa and how to send funds from Banxa to his account on the 
trading platform X was using. 
Mr A has told us his investments showed a profit and he was able to make an initial 
withdrawal. As Mr As confidence built, he invested more, but when he tried to make a larger 
withdrawal from the trading platform errors appeared on the page asking him to make more 
payments.
It was clear Mr A had fallen victim to a scam and he has not been able to recover any of the 
payments he made.
Mr A made the following payments into the scam Via Banxa:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
12 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £550.00
15 August 2022 Banxa Credit - £557.67
15 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £1,000.00
16 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £1,000.00
17 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,000.00
18 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,000.00
21 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £2,000.00
21 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,225.00
21 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,225.00
21 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £2,800.00
22 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £3,300.00
26 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,245.00
26 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,260.00
26 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,259.00
28 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £4,255.00
28 August 2022 Banxa Debit Card £1,000.00
Barclays initially refunded Mr A for the loss he had incurred while it investigated. When 
Barclays decided it was unable to offer a refund to Mr A it debited his account again. I 
understand there was a discrepancy between these two figures that has since been 
resolved. This issue does not form part of this complaint.
Our Investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr A has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr A and Barclays sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Barclays 
should refund the money Mr A lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr A made
Mr A made payments into the scam via his debit card. When payments are made by card the 
only recovery option Barclays has is to request a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr A was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Mr A didnt 
make the payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange (Banxa). This 
is important because Barclays would only have been able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Banxa), not another party.
The service provided by Banxa would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of Mr As 
payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Banxa provided the service that was requested; 
that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. The fact that the cryptocurrency was later 
transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback claim 
against the merchant Mr A paid.
With the above in mind, I dont think Barclays had any recovery options available to it for the 
payments Mr A made.
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments Mr A made? 
It has been accepted that Mr A authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Barclays, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr A is responsible.However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to question Mr A about the payments he was making. And if it had questioned Mr A would it 
have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
Mr A started making payments into the scam via the cryptocurrency exchange Banxa in 
August 2022. 
Between the 12 and 17 August 2022 Mr A sent four payments on different days, each 
payment was less than £5,000. 
The payments Mr A was making were to a legitimate business and it would not be 
reasonable for me to suggest Barclays should step in every time one of its customers makes 
a payment to a new legitimate business, even if they havent made a payment to that 
business before. The values of the payments were also not so significant that I would have 
expected Barclays fraud prevention systems to have been triggered prompting it to step in 
and question Mr A about what the payments were for.
After these initial payments Mr A made further payments of a higher value but these 
payments were also below the amounts I would have expected to trigger Barclays fraud 
prevention systems. And although Mr A made some payments on the same day, by this time 
he had made several payments to Banxa without complaint which would support the view 
that he was happy to make payments to Banxa in general and therefore not cause Barclays 
concern.
Overall, I think it was reasonable that Barclays fraud prevention systems were not triggered 
by the payments Mr A made and that it did not step in to prevent them.
Mr A has further said that the payments he made to Banxa were not in keeping with the way 
he normally operated his account. But I can see that Mr A had previously made large 
payments from his account, and while these payments may not have been for crypto 
investment these payments do show that Mr A had made large payments from his Barclays 
account before, and this was not uncommon for him.
Mr A has also told us that other payments have been stopped both in the past and after the 
scam took place, so he doesnt understand why the payments into the scam were not. While 
I can appreciate Mr As frustration, I am unable to comment on Barclays fraud prevention 
systems on a whole, only the way they did/didnt respond to the payments Mr A has 
complained about. Fraud prevention systems can be triggered for many reasons and even 
randomly on occasion. The fact that other payments unrelated to the scam have been 
stopped does not affect the outcome of this complaint.
For these reasons and those Ive explained above Barclays is not responsible for Mr As 
loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024. 
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman