DRN-2642637
The complaint
Ms W complains about the exchange rate applied when she used her 
Barclays Bank UK PLC debit card abroad.
What happened
Ms W made payment transactions with her Barclays debit card during her trip abroad. A 
different exchange rate was applied for each transaction which she believes to be incorrect. 
She also believes that she was not given the opportunity to check the exchange rates before 
they were applied. As a result, she believes that she has lost £200 in exchange rates 
difference.
Ms W would like a refund in line with fair exchange rates and full transparency from Barclays 
on fees and exchange rates.
When Ms W complained to Barclays it explained in its final response letter that the exchange 
rates are based on the type of transaction and this may vary the applicable rates. It also 
explained that the exchange rates are applied directly by the relevant card scheme provider 
and are not within Barclays control, it only applies a fee on non-sterling transactions.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Barclays had 
done anything wrong as Barclays had correctly applied the exchange rates that are set by 
the relevant card scheme provider. 
Ms W disagreed. She said the key issue was that a significantly too high exchange rate was 
applied and that no visibility of this was given. She said she understood that these were the 
relevant card scheme provider transactions, but it was done via her Barclays debit card and 
she thinks that Barclays needs to take responsibility for its card/account transactions.
The investigator responded to Ms W letting her know where in the terms and conditions for 
the card Barclays had said the exchange rate is set by the relevant card scheme provider.
Ms W remains dissatisfied and feels a disproportionately high exchange rate was applied to 
the transactions without any method in place to approve or challenge that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Ws frustration here. She feels she has been charged too much and 
that she didnt have any chance to approve the rate that would be applied or to challenge it 
afterwards.
Before I look at her complaint, I want to make it clear that I am only looking at a complaint 
about Barclays here. And having done so I agree with the investigator that I cannot see that 
Barclays has done anything wrong. When Barclays provided Ms W with her card she agreed 
to the terms and conditions of the account and those terms set out what happens when the 
card is used to make a purchase in a foreign currency or abroad. I cant see anything which 
suggest Barclays hasnt followed the terms of the account. The particular term relating to 
these transactions doesnt seem unfair especially as Barclays is only passing on the rate 
applied by the relevant card scheme provider. If Ms W wanted to approve the rate to be 
applied, she should have used a different payment method. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman