DRN-2103997
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc used an incorrect exchange rate when he sent 
money from a Euro account to his sterling account with it.
What happened
Mr S holds an account overseas and a UK account with HSBC. In March 2020 he 
transferred €2,400 from his overseas account to his HSBC account, which was credited with 
£2,086.01. Mr S says that the website of the European Central Bank indicated an exchange 
rate that would have meant him receiving nearly £50 more. He said that the bank was in 
breach of the Revised Payment Services Directive. 
When Mr S complained to HSBC, however, it said that it used live interbank rates for foreign 
currency exchanges and that they fluctuated throughout the day. It called that the HSBC 
rate in its terms and conditions. It used the rate applicable when it received the payment. 
Whilst other rates might be published elsewhere, they were not the rates that HSBC used. 
Mr S didnt accept that explanation and referred his complaint to this service, where one of 
our investigators considered it.     
He accepted that HSBC had been entitled to use the HSBC rate to convert Mr Ss payment 
into sterling when it was received. He was satisfied too that HSBC had complied with the 
directive and had treated Mr S fairly. Mr S didnt accept the investigators view and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs terms explained that it would use the HSBC rate to convert payments received in 
currencies other than sterling. That was a fluctuating rate and not one that could be advised 
in advance. Im satisfied that HSBC treated Mr S fairly in using that rate when it received the 
payment.   
The Revised Payment Services Directive were transposed into UK law by The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. Article 49 of the directive, to which Mr S has referred, is given 
effect by regulation 46, which requires a payees payment service provider (which in this 
case means HSBC) to provide certain information to its customer after the execution of a 
payment order. That information includes the amount of the transaction in the currency in 
which the payee can access the funds, a breakdown of any charges and, where applicable, 
any exchange rate used. 
I can see that HSBC provided Mr S with this information at the time of the transfer. It didnt 
include any charges, because there werent any. I note that both the directive and the 
regulations require the relevant information to be provided after, not before, execution of the 
payment order.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman