DRN-3384517
The complaint
Miss C complains about the Bus Employees Friendly Societys (Bus Societys) handling 
of her sickness benefit claim.
What happened
Miss C has sickness benefit cover under her policy with the Bus Society. The policy 
pays benefit in the event Miss C cant work because of accident or illness.
On 30 October 2020, Miss C emailed the Bus Society and explained that she was 
isolating for 14 days, and asked if she could make a claim for that period. The Bus 
Society explained that this wouldnt be considered sickness (unless she tested positive 
for Covid-19).
Miss Cs GP then signed her off work from 5 November 2020 due to abdominal pain.
The Bus Society accepted that Miss C had a valid claim from 5 November 2020, and paid 
her claim from that point. However, Miss C said she hadnt been able to work because of 
her abdominal pain from 31 October 2020. The Bus Society thought Miss C had provided 
inconsistent information about this, and so maintained its decision to pay the claim from 
5 November 2020. Unhappy with this, Miss C brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the Bus 
Societys decision to accept the claim from 5 November 2020 had been reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2022. Heres what I said:
The policy explains that benefit is payable in respect of incapacity certificated by a 
medical practitioner. It also says that where a member wishes to claim sickness benefit 
commencing from a date earlier that the date of examination by the medical practitioner, 
the medical certificate must be accompanied by a separate declaration for that period 
(self-certification). It says that such declaration shall not cover a period exceeding seven 
days and shall not be accepted in isolation for sickness benefit claims.
Miss C self-certified herself as unfit to work due to abdominal pain from 29 October 
2020. She signed the form on 2 November 2020.
The initial evidence from Miss Cs employer was that she was absent from work due 
to sickness from 31 October 2020, but it didnt give the reason for this.
Miss C was then signed off work by her GP from 5 November 2020 due to abdominal pain.
Given the conflicting information about Miss Cs first date of absence, and because 
her employer hadnt given a reason for her absence, I can understand why the Bus 
Society chose to accept Miss Cs claim from 5 November 2020.
However, Miss C has since confirmed that she made a mistake on her self-certification 
form and says she wasnt able to work because of her abdominal pain from 31 October 
2020. After the complaint was referred to this service, Miss Cs employer provided 
confirmation of this.
That being the case, I think it would be appropriate for the Bus Society to pay the claim 
from 31 October 2020. However, I only require it to pay interest from the date Miss Cs 
employer confirmed that she had stopped work due to abdominal pain. Confirmation of 
this was provided to this service, and we shared it with the Bus Society on 8 February 
2022.
The Bus Society has raised some concerns about the additional letter provided by 
Miss Cs employer, and has pointed out that the letter was written by a different manager 
to the initial letter. Miss Cs employer has since clarified that the manager who wrote the 
initial letter no longer works there. Im satisfied by this explanation.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision. 
The Bus Society responded to say it thinks Miss Cs claim was fraudulent. It provided a 
timeline and resent information that was previously provided to this service.
Miss C responded to confirm she accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Bus Society says it thinks Miss Cs claim was fraudulent. However, it accepted her claim 
was valid - it didnt turn down the claim because of fraud. The complaint brought to this 
service was about the timing of the start of the claim, which I addressed in my provisional 
decision. 
An allegation of fraud is a very serious matter. It isnt appropriate for a business to allege 
fraud after a claim has been accepted, and expect this service to make a finding on it. I 
therefore havent considered whether the claim was fraudulent. 
I remain of the view that Miss C has provided sufficient evidence to show that she hadnt 
been able to work because of her abdominal pain from 31 October 2020.
The Bus Society provided a timeline of events, which I was already aware of. As the Bus 
Society hasnt provided any new information or arguments regarding my view that the claim 
should start from 31 October 2020, I see no reason to alter my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require the Bus Employees Friendly 
Society to accept the claim from 31 October 2020, and pay the backdated benefit due 
between 31 October 2020 and 5 November 2020.
Interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 8 February 2022 
to the date of settlement*.
* If the Bus Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman