DRN-2923361
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she obtained from BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading 
as MINI Financial Services (Mini Financial Services) under a hire purchase agreement 
wasnt fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality contrary to the requirements of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
  
What happened
In July 2019, Miss H acquired a used car from Mini Financial Services under a hire purchase 
agreement. The car was then some 28 months old and had a recorded mileage of 29,077 
miles. Its cash price was just under £16,000. Miss H paid an advance payment of £8,000, 
and agreed to pay 48 monthly payments of £201.05 each.
Miss H says that in August 2020, while reversing the car, she heard a clunk, and it then 
wouldnt move. The mileage covered by the car was then 49,012 miles.
She had the car recovered to a local garage who said the nearside CV joint had failed and 
needed to be replaced. However, the manufacturer didnt offer replacement CV joints  she 
would need to buy a complete drive shaft and joint.
The manufacturers warranty had expired three weeks before the joint failed. She was 
quoted some £3,000 to have the car recovered and a replacement drive shaft and joint fitted. 
She complained to Mini Financial Services. She didnt think this component should have 
failed in a car of this age and mileage. She wanted Mini Financial Services to meet the cost 
of repairing the car.
Mini Financial Services didnt accept her complaint. It pointed out that as the failure occurred 
11 months after the car was delivered to her, CRA put the onus on her to prove the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. On the evidence it had seen, it didnt agree this 
was the case. So Miss H complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that under 
CRA, which applied to this hire purchase agreement:
there was an implied term that the quality of the goods was of satisfactory;
the quality of goods was satisfactory if they met the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances; and
the quality of the goods included their general state and condition and other things 
like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
Mini Financial Services said the defect appeared 11 months after it supplied the car, and 
after it had covered a further 20,000 miles. It said this was too far on from the point of supply 
to have been present at that time. 
The investigator said the CV joint of a car was expected to last the life of a car, or upwards 
of 100,000 miles, providing it suffered no external damage. Damage to the protective boot of 
the joint could cause the joint to fail. From the evidence she had seen, there was no mention 
of damage to the protective boot, which suggested there wasnt any external reason for the 
joint to have failed.
Miss Hs car had travelled a total of 49,012 miles when it was recovered to the local garage. 
Based on this distance travelled, and the comments made by the garage that this
issue wouldnt be expected in a car of this age, it suggested that the part had failed
prematurely.
On the balance of probabilities, the investigator concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss H - in particular that it wasnt reasonably durable.
Consequently, the investigator thought Mini Financial Services should either meet the cost of 
repairing the car or, if it wasnt willing to do so, that Miss H should be entitled to reject the 
car. In either case she said Miss H should be further compensated, in particular for the time 
she had been without use of the car.
Mini Financial Services responded to say, in summary, that:
no evidence had been produced to show the presence of the fault within six months 
after delivery to Miss H, when the onus would have been on Mini Financial Services 
to disprove liability. So it thought the onus was on Miss H to prove Mini Financial 
Services was liable; 
at delivery to Miss H, the car was more than two years old, with a recorded mileage 
of 29,000 miles. So a reasonable customer should have expected some form of 
wear and tear. Furthermore, to cover themselves for any repairs that might be 
needed, it wasnt unreasonable to expect a customer to take out an extended 
warranty. Miss H hadnt done this and must take some responsibility for this;
although manufacturers might expect parts to last a certain length of time, there was 
no guarantee they would. That was why they only gave guarantees for a limited 
time; and
it couldnt say how Miss H had driven the car.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CRA makes it clear that satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, and one aspect of this is durability. A reasonable person wouldnt expect goods, 
or all their components to last indefinitely. However, they would, I think, expect goods, and 
some of their principal components, to last a certain minimum period.
In this case, I think the CV joint comes into this category. I think a reasonable person would 
expect a CV joint to last considerably longer than this joint did. This is supported by the 
professional view of the local garage that a failure in a car of this age and mileage was 
uncommon. It has also now confirmed that there was no sign of external damage on the CV 
boot.
Mini Financial Services says it cant comment on the way Miss H drove the car. However, 
Ive seen no evidence on this and so discount this comment. It also suggests she should have taken out an extended warranty. However, I think it is unreasonable for it to suggest 
this to remove a liability for which its responsible.
So I conclude the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when delivered to Miss H, and Mini 
Financial Services is responsible for rectifying this.  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Mini Financial Services should take the actions, and pay the 
money, as set out in my final decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
trading as MINI Financial Services:
1. to replace the CV joint, or the drive shaft and CV joint, as necessary, entirely at its 
expense, including the cost of uplifting the car from its present location and 
redelivering the car in working order, all within a timescale reasonably acceptable to 
Miss H;
2. to refund all rentals paid by, or due from, Miss H from the date the CV joint failed until 
the car is redelivered to her in working order as compensation for her loss of use of 
the car; and 
3. to pay yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple on the refunded rentals from the date 
each rental was paid until settlement.(1).
(1)If MINI Financial Services considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman