DRN-4106486
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr K built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata 
Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr K had built up 28 years and 6 months pensionable service in the BSPS between 
November 1987 and May 2016. His annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the 
scheme was £18,134.91. This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed 
amount (by June 2017 it had been revalued to £18,605.28).
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  under 
the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, 
the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the BSPS offered a transfer 
value of £466,080.34 in June 2017)
Mr K was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr K to IFM. On 7 August 2017, the following 
information about Mr K and his wife was recorded by IFM in a document titled Pension 
Review Questionnaire:
He was aged 52 and his wife was aged 51. They were both in good health. They had 
three adult children who werent financially dependent on them;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£31,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future, 
although he planned to retire from age 55 at the latest;
His wife was employed as a teaching assistant by the local council and paid gross 
annual income of about £9,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home, the value of which wasnt recorded. They 
had about £65,000 in cash savings which was earmarked as an emergency fund. 
They didnt have any other savings or investments;
They didnt have any debt or liabilities (the marital home was owned outright);
After paying for bills and essentials, they had surplus disposable income of about 
£1,800 available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) workplace pension scheme since 
June 2016. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 12% of his gross 
annual salary. The value of his DC plan wasnt recorded. He was also on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67;
No details were recorded about his wifes private pension arrangements; and
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit based on a 
multiple of six times his salary.
In September 2017, terms of the BSPS re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees to start 
to talk to members in detail about their options.
On 15 September 2017, IFMs adviser issued his suitability report. This explained to Mr K 
that he had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits, as previously communicated 
by the BSPS. IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report that Mr Ks primary objective 
regarding his safeguarded benefits was to retire earlier than the BSPS normal retirement 
age of 65, preferably at age 55 and, from that point, receive an income of about £1,500 per 
month. It was noted that Mr K would withdraw that level of income from his PPP and reduce 
it by the same amount of the state pension once that started to be paid from age 67. There 
was also reference to Mr K preferring to draw flexible benefits, obtaining control over the 
value of his benefits and to maximise the death benefits available to his family. 
IFM obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report produced by Prudential. This showed 
that Mr Ks estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 was £25,797.85 on the 
basis he took a full scheme pension only. It calculated the critical yield to match that benefit 
as 7.7%. The calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 55  to 
align with the age at which Mr K wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 (Aggressive) was highest 
risk, his risk profile was determined to be 4 or Moderate risk. This was defined as, You are 
happy to take on investment risk and understand that this is crucial in terms of generating 
long-term return. You are willing to take risk with most of your available assets.
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr K 
accept the transfer value of £466,080.34 and transfer to a PPP provided by Prudential for 
the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.
You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The charges associated with the recommendation and deducted from the PPP fund value 
were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.07% (or £5,000)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.65% investment annual management charge
0.35% platform charge
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr K to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
Mr K accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in the following funds to align with            
Mr Ks Moderate risk profile:
Fund Allocation Estimated annual growth 
rate before charges
Prufund Cautious 30% 5.50%
Prufund Growth 70% 6.20%
Weighted estimated annual growth rate before charges was 5.99%
Following the pension transfer, Mr K retired in June 2020 when he was aged 55  in line with 
the recorded objective.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr K, complained to IFM about the suitability of the pension transfer advice it 
had given him in 2017 after the regulator, the FCA, contacted him to make him aware that he 
may have been given unsuitable advice. Based on what the FCA had told him, he believed 
that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss and so wanted IFM to provide 
compensation to put him back into the correct position.IFM didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it stated that Mr K was concerned about the 
issues surrounding Tata Steel and the security of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. It 
considered that the continuing uncertainty at the time was sufficient reason for Mr K to 
transfer away so that he could obtain control of his safeguarded benefits. It said that he 
wanted to retire at age 55 and withdraw benefits flexibly. Overall, it was satisfied it had 
adhered to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr K with all 
the necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed 
decision. It didnt believe the alternative options of the PPF or BSPS2 couldve met Mr Ks 
objectives. In its view, the pension transfer to the PPP was in his best interests and so was 
therefore suitable. 
In March 2023, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it 
be upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Ks best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the PPF on the basis of prospective early 
retirement at age 55. To put things right, our investigator recommended that IFM carry out a 
redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr K transferred to the 
PPF, retired at age 55 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he 
recommended that IFM pay Mr K £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
Mr K accepted our investigators assessment. IFM didnt provide a response to our 
investigator. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding on whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this decision isnt to repeat or address every single point 
raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
IFMs response to this complaint
IFM issued a final response letter to Mr K rejecting this complaint. But it didnt provide a 
response to our investigators assessment. Its unclear why. Regardless of its reasons, Ive 
decided that IFM has had sufficient time to respond and provide any additional comments or 
evidence for me to consider. Based on the available contemporaneous evidence, Im 
satisfied that I have sufficient information to be able to decide this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr K were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R. 
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr K, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ks situation when IFM advised himThe situation for Mr K wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. Three options were available, as stated by the BSPS and repeated in IFMs 
suitability report.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr K. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members or those who expected to draw benefits at or close to the 
scheme normal retirement age of 65. The benefits available under the PPP option would be 
dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity rates available at 
retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. It was known at the time of the advice that the PPF would pay a higher 
level of income and tax-free cash than the BSPS2 on early retirement. Given the FCAs 
position, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the PPF was 
likely to be the better option for Mr K based on his circumstances and objectives. And so IFM 
shouldve only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the PPF if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in Mr Ks best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, its my opinion that IFMs pension transfer advice to Mr K 
was unsuitable. My view can be summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ks safeguarded benefits, accounting for 28 years and 6 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. Other than £65,000 held 
in cash savings, he had limited other assets that could be used to support his 
retirement income needs. Given the lack of other assets, IFM ought to have 
recognised that Mr K was likely to be heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded 
benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to support his standard of living 
in retirement until state pension age. In my view, Mr K had limited capacity for loss. 
He was planning on retiring within a few years and so couldnt replenish any losses 
through employed income. So I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating flexibility, control and 
maximisation of death benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary 
income purpose  unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, the primary aim of the pension transfer was so that 
Mr K could retire early at age 55. But he was then aged 52 and so couldnt access 
any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such a time 
frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more 
difficult to justify;
I think the suitability report misled Mr K about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF option. It stated, Early retirement is unlikely to be an option 
under the PPF. This is incorrect since the PPF permits members to take benefits 
early from age 55 onwards subject to a reduction. This misleading statement likely 
led to Mr K discounting the PPF as an option when, in my view, it was the most 
suitable option for him;
IFM stated that early retirement at age 55 was allowed under the BSPS subject to a 
30% reduction in the annual pension income. It stated that early retirement under the 
BSPS2 would likely be subject to a similar reduction. I think it portrayed the reduction 
as a penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the 
fact that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, 
and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what 
IFM said, its likely Mr K incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took 
benefits early under the alternative options;
IFM stated in the suitability report, Your deferred pension available at age 65 
currently stands at a full pension of £18,605. But that was the revalued annual 
pension in June 2017 when Mr K was aged 51. According to the TVAS report 
produced on 15 September 2017, the estimated revalued annual pension at age 65 
in 2030 was £25,797.85. So the reference to £18,605 at age 65 was misleading;
IFMs adviser attempted to show in the suitability report the early retirement pension 
payable under the BSPS at age 55. He stated, For illustrative purposes only, I 
estimate that if you were 55 now and retiring under the current British Steel scheme, 
the pension would be in the region of £13,000 per year or £9,200 if you took the tax-
free cash sum of £61,500. But that illustration was potentially misleading for an 
inexperienced investor like Mr K. This is because that figure of £18,605 would need 
to be revalued to age 55 before the 30% reduction for early retirement was applied  
but IFM applied it to the revalued annual pension in June 2017 when Mr K was aged 
51. I think the way the information was presented may have misled Mr K to believe 
that the benefits payable under the alternative options at age 55 were lower than was 
actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr K so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer to a PPP from an 
uninformed position in this regard;
As noted above, the basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr K to retire immediately 
but instead in a few years at age 55. It was recorded that Mr Ks annual retirement 
income need from age 55 was £1,500 per month. But theres no reference to whether 
that was a gross or net figure or whether it would need to escalate in payment. Its 
unclear to me how that target income figure of £1,500 per month was established. In 
my view, the starting point is for the regulated adviser to establish a realistic target 
income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, discretionary spending plans and 
excess income for saving. This information would then reveal the core income 
required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age  and this would then provide a basis for the recommendation. But in Mr Ks case, it seems that 
he simply provided a notional figure of £1,500 per month without IFM seeking to 
scrutinise or understand what this was based on to determine if it was realistic. His 
income need may well have been a lower figure. I dont think IFMs approach was 
appropriate because without scrutinising and understanding Mr Ks retirement 
income need its difficult to conclude that the pension transfer to the PPP was clearly 
demonstrated to be in his best interests;
 
Overall, its my view that IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to             
Mr Ks financial situation including his anticipated income and expenditure during 
retirement when assessing whether it was suitable for him to transfer to a PPP to 
achieve his early retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Ks 
retirement income need couldve been met by the PPF but IFM failed to establish 
this. Ultimately, however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in 
Mr Ks best interests to transfer to a PPP at that time to achieve his early retirement 
objective; 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr K. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the PPF had he transferred to that scheme  I cannot see 
that there was any compelling reason for Mr K to take on those risks at that time;
IFM recorded that Mr K preferred flexible income rather than guaranteed lifetime 
income. But it also recorded that Mr K regarded a fixed guaranteed income being 
important to him and that he didnt prefer a less secure adjustable income. Mr K had 
received guaranteed income all his working life. So I think a guaranteed retirement 
income from another source such as the PPF before state pension age wouldve 
been valuable for an individual in his circumstances, but IFM steered him away from 
that option by incorrectly stating early retirement was unlikely to be an option under 
the PPF;
IFM recorded that Mr K was prepared to accept more risk in return for greater 
flexibility over when and how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund. 
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr K had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits in the future. Theres 
no real evidence that Mr K required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable 
income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve 
been met by his cash savings of £65,000, DC workplace pension and the tax-free 
cash under the PPF. This doesnt appear to have been adequately considered by 
IFM;
Mr K and his wife had surplus disposable income of about £1,800 available every 
month. Theres inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these 
additional monies in either a pension, investment or savings account to provide 
flexible income or lump sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
IFM recorded that Mr K was concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
and so wanted control over his pension. But he appears to have been a largely 
passive pension saver up until that point. In my view, Mr K had limited knowledge 
and experience to enable him to understand the risks involved in transferring his 
safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr K was concerned about a transfer to the PPF. While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a transfer 
to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr K wouldve received a 
minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the recommended PPP 
where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. If Mr K was 
concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which would 
result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as an 
inexperienced and Moderate risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to 
a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks where the loss could 
be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to me; 
The suitability report mentioned that Mr K wanted to ensure any unused pension 
benefits be inherited by his family. While I understand that death benefits are 
important to consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mr K about 
what was best for his own retirement provision. He was in good health at the time. 
Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet income and lump sum needs would likely 
mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  
could be much smaller than expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mr K. 
Through his employment he had a generous lump sum death in service benefit which 
was applicable until his expected retirement at age 55. In addition, the value of his 
DC workplace pension plan would be payable as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear 
his wife would receive a large (relative to what was recorded about their wider 
financial situation) lump sum death benefit from other sources in the event of his 
death. And if this was deemed insufficient, the surplus disposable income they had 
available couldve been used to obtain life cover to provide a lump sum on death. 
These factors dont appear to have been adequately considered by IFM;
Its my view that Mr K had no health issues at the time IFM advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his wife. So Im not 
convinced there was any real merit in him transferring to a PPP at that time to 
provide a lump sum death benefit at the cost of losing valuable benefit guarantees;
The TVAS calculation showed that the critical yield figure to match the benefits under 
the BSPS at age 65 was 7.7%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.0% at age 
65, as explained by our investigator in his assessment. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its my view that a required investment 
growth rate of 7.7% was incompatible with Mr Ks Moderate risk profile, discount 
rate and the estimated annual growth rate of 5.99% (before charges) of the 
recommended investment strategy. I think these factors showed that it was likely          
Mr K would be financially worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figure of 7.7% was incorrect. This 
is because the basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to            
Mr K at a cost  but the cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical 
yield. Including that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being 
greater than 7.7%, which further increased the risk that Mr K would be worse off by 
transferring. In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr K was seeking 
to take benefits at age 55. If that was the case then I wouldve expected IFM to also 
calculate the critical yield figure at age 55 to enable Mr K to make an informed 
decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because the critical yield 
figure at age 55 wouldve been greater than 7.7% due to the shorter investment 
timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This 
meant that Mr K wasnt provided accurate information about the level of investment 
growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took benefits early at age 55; 
The wording of the suitability report inappropriately downplayed the importance of the 
critical yield, stating that it will add no value to the process and the results of a 
TVAS are largely academic". I think IFMs approach to the transfer analysis was 
improper and prevented Mr K from making an informed decision; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ks objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, a misleading critical yield figure, downplayed the importance of the 
transfer analysis and misled him about the benefits payable by the scheme at ages 
55 and 65. And it failed to provide sufficient information on the alternative options to 
achieve his stated objectives. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report led to 
Mr K making an uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when this 
was not in his best interests.
Conclusion
In my view, Mr Ks objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility, flexible death 
benefits and control over investment choice were recorded in a generic way, suggesting that 
IFM used a standardised templated approach to pension transfer advice. Theres no 
evidence that the stated objectives were properly explored, scrutinised and challenged by 
IFM to ensure they were appropriate and achievable.
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ks 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
age, good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr K couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr K gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the PPF 
at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr K, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is aligned 
with that of our investigator.
At the time of the advice Mr K was aged 52 and the contemporaneous evidence indicated 
that he wanted to retire at age 55  which is precisely what he did. 
Based on these factors, its my view that the PPF rather than the BSPS2 was likely to be the 
better option for Mr K. I recognise that there would be a 10% reduction in the starting 
pension entitlement within the PPF and that income in respect of service before 6 April 1997 
wouldnt escalate in payment. The BSPS2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred 
members. But the reduction for early retirement under the PPF, proposed here at 55, was 
lower and would likely have more than offset the 10% reduction. The commutation factor for 
converting pension income into tax-free cash was also slightly more favourable under the 
PPF compared to the BSPS2  and its my view that maximum tax-free cash was attractive to Mr K. And so both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been higher 
under the PPF compared to the BSPS2 at age 55. So, compensation should be based on Mr 
K taking benefits from the PPF at age 55. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent Mr K and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ks 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr K accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr K £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr K the balance. 
If Mr K accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr K can accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want 
to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman