DRN-3783284
The complaint
Ms M and Mr W complain about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (Assurant) handling 
of their claim under their mobile phone insurance. 
What happened
Ms Ms mobile phone was damaged so she made a claim. This was accepted by Assurant 
and she was sent a replacement (mobile phone 1). Ms M says mobile phone 1 never 
worked and it wasnt until over two years later, when she made enquiries, she found out it 
had been blacklisted. Assurant found out mobile phone 1 had been blacklisted a few days 
before they sent it to her. Assurant then arranged a further replacement (mobile phone 2). 
Ms M says when she received mobile phone 2, she checked to see it worked by making and 
receiving calls. Ms M says, about a month later, when she actually started using mobile 
phone 2, she noticed it wouldnt connect to mobile data when no wifi was available. Ms M 
says she sought help from her mobile network provider, but they also werent able to resolve 
the issue. 
Ms M then arranged for Assurant to collect it but they returned it a few days later without 
fixing the issue and claiming they couldnt identify any faults. Ms M says she suggested 
Assurant take mobile phone 2 again and ask the engineer to call Ms M when theyre carrying 
out checks so she could guide them on the specific issue  but Assurant declined this 
suggestion. Ms M says Assurant also declined her suggestion to give her a like for like 
replacement, so Ms M and Mr W complained. 
Assurant responded and explained theyd carried out checks on mobile phone 2 but they 
didnt identify any faults. Assurant said they shouldnt have replaced mobile phone 1 as     
Ms M and Mr W were out of warranty with the phone  but because they did replace it, 
theyve allowed mobile phone 2 to come under the warranty to verify the faults on this 
occasion. Assurant said they havent been able to identify any faults with mobile phone 2 so 
they didnt uphold the complaint. Assurant also said, going forward, there is no warranty with 
mobile phone 2 as this had expired.
During our investigation, Assurant said their engineers performed a 40-point quality check on 
mobile phone 2 in line with the manufacturers specifications but were unable to locate any 
faults. Assurant said, to date, they have no evidence of mobile phone 2 being faulty but, if  
Ms M and Mr W get a diagnostic report from the manufacturer confirming the faults, they 
may be able to review the complaint outcome further.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M and Mr W. He thought Assurant hadnt acted 
fairly and recommended they get the diagnostic report from the manufacturer and provide 
Ms M with a replacement phone in the interim  or pay an equivalent cash settlement. He 
also recommended they pay compensation of £100. Ms M and Mr W agreed but Assurant 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I can see Assurant, when they found out mobile phone 1 was already blocked at the point 
they sent it to Ms M, agreed to send a replacement. I note they say the warranty had expired 
at the point they replaced it but, given the issue relating to mobile phone 1, I think the steps 
theyve taken to replace it are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Assurant say they 
also agreed to carry out an inspection of mobile phone 2 even though the warranty period 
had expired. I note Assurants position here, and Ive also seen the letter sent to Ms M with 
mobile phone 1 explaining she has a 12-month warranty. While Ive taken this into account, I 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case not to apply just the narrow 
lens of the terms and conditions and to consider the wider principle of fairness. I agree Ms M 
raised an issue about mobile phone 1 after the 12-month warranty period but theres no 
dispute here that Assurant sent a mobile phone which wasnt a suitable replacement  given 
that it was blocked and therefore didnt work. So, as mentioned above, I think theyve taken 
reasonable steps to correct this error by sending a further replacement. 
The dispute here relates to mobile phone 2 and whether there is a fault. I can see Ms M says 
mobile phone 2 doesnt connect to mobile data when shes out of range for wifi. She has 
provided Assurant with screenshots which show the issue shes experiencing. Two 
screenshots show a search being attempted using an online search engine, one of these 
show a message which says Network error. Check your network connections and try again. 
And the other says No data connection. A further screenshot shows a message which says 
You dont have a network connection. I think its also important to point out that, in all three 
screenshots, the mobile phone doesnt show a symbol which would suggest there is a 
mobile data connection. 
I note Assurant have described the inspection carried out by their engineer, but they havent 
provided any documentary evidence of the results. They have provided a checklist of the 
functional checks they say were carried out by their engineer. I agree this checklist contains 
a thorough list of quality checks  and includes a check on wifi and mobile data. Assurant 
also say they believe the screenshots provided by Ms M show theres no network connection 
on the mobile phone  and not a fault. Assurant say, the mobile phone passed the 
engineers quality control checks, but had there been a fault, it wouldnt have passed the 
signal/connectivity part of the checks. Assurant say mobile phones which pass the quality 
checks dont produce a report  only mobile phones which fail produce a report. They say, 
given Ms Ms mobile phone, didnt produce a report they know it passed all functionality 
checks. 
Given the dispute and the conflicting views, Ive carefully considered the information I have 
to decide what I think is more likely than not the position here. Im more persuaded by the 
screenshots provided by Ms M. I say this because the evidence she has provided shows the 
mobile phone doesnt have mobile data and supports her testimony about this being a fault. 
Thats not to say Ive ignored Assurants comments and evidence, but I dont find a checklist 
to be more persuasive than screenshots of the mobile phone  particularly when that 
checklist isnt paired with a report showing the specific results of the mobile phones quality 
check. I do acknowledge why Assurant arent able to provide a report but, even without this, 
I havent seen any compelling evidence which in any way challenges the screenshots or 
demonstrates that mobile phone 2 doesnt have a fault with its mobile data connection. Taking this all into account, I agree with Assurants suggestion here about obtaining a 
diagnostic report from the manufacturer. But, for the reasons set out above, I believe 
Assurant should arrange this and not Ms M and Mr W.     
Ive also looked at the service given to Ms M and Mr W. Assurant have admitted they sent 
Ms M a mobile phone which was blacklisted. So, while I think they took reasonable steps in 
replacing it, I dont think this factors in the frustration and inconvenience in terms of the time 
spent trying to get mobile phone 1 to work, realising it was blocked and then arranging a 
further replacement with Assurant. I think its right that Assurant should compensate Ms M 
and Mr W for the frustration and inconvenience caused by their poor service. And, I think 
compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Assurant have made an error in sending a mobile phone which was 
blocked, and Im also persuaded its more likely than not there is a fault with mobile phone 2. 
So, Assurant should arrange a diagnostic report from the manufacturer to determine the 
fault. And, in the interim, and if Ms M requires one, Assurant should provide Ms M with a 
replacement mobile phone while the diagnostic report is being arranged. If a fault is 
identified through the diagnostic report, Assurant should consider Ms M and Mr Ws claim 
further.  
Alternatively, Assurant can pay an equivalent cash settlement for mobile phone 2. 
In addition to whichever one of the two options Assurant chooses to settle the complaint, 
they should also pay compensation of £100 to Ms M and Mr W for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman