DRN-4381893
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt close his Barclaycard account and that 
this resulted in adverse information being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B closed his accounts with Barclays in May 2021, but Barclays didnt close Mr Bs 
Barclaycard account. In 2022, Mr B applied for a loan, and this was declined. Shortly after 
Mr B applied for further loans and these were declined due to adverse credit information.
When Mr B complained to Barclays it accepted that it hadnt closed the Barclaycard account 
and that it had registered a default due to there being an outstanding balance on the account 
 the annual charge. Barclays apologised and wrote off the account balance and took steps 
to correct the information it had sent to credit reference agencies (CRAs). Barclays offered 
Mr B £150 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Mr Bs representative brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of 
our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that Barclays had done 
something wrong, but that Barclays had taken reasonable steps to correct Mr Bs credit 
information. The Investigator thought that a payment of £150 was a fair and reasonable 
remedy for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
Mr B asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. As I reached a significantly different 
outcome to that of the Investigator, I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision 
was:
Barclays accepts it shouldve closed Mr Bs credit card account when he closed his 
other accounts in May 2021. Several months later, Barclays applied an annual 
charge to the account, and when it received no payments to the account Barclays 
registered a default.
Barclays accepts this wouldnt have happened if it had closed Mr Bs account in May 
2021 when it should have. In this case Barclays accepts it got things wrong, so my 
decision will focus on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable remedy.
Mr B first became aware there may be an issue with the information held by CRAs 
when he applied for a loan in 2022. Mr B says an initial loan for solar panels was 
declined  after a soft-search - and subsequent loans Mr B applied for with another 
lender were also declined. Ive not seen why the initial loan was declined. Regardless 
of this, Ive seen the subsequent loan applications were declined due to adverse 
credit information. As these loan applications were made around the same time it 
seems more likely than not the default registered by Barclays was a key factor in why 
all the applications were declined.
Mr B says that because the loans were declined, he had to approach another 
business for solar panels, and this meant he paid more for the solar panels and paid 
increased energy bills for several months as a result of the delay. Mr B says that he 
was able to pay for the solar panels without finance and this is how he paid for them 
 albeit with a new supplier. I appreciate Mr Bs frustration and strength of feeling in 
this regard, but I dont think its fair and reasonable for me to decide Barclays should 
pay Mr B the difference in installation costs or for the cost of delay in the solar panels 
being fitted if Mr B could reasonably fund the purchase another way. However, I 
intend saying that Mr B missed the opportunity to purchase the solar panels using 
finance and any remedy should take this into account. 
Barclays says that in June 2022 it took steps to remove all adverse data from Mr Bs 
credit file and reported his account as satisfied to the CRAs. However, Barclays 
accepts that there were some differences in the way the three CRAs recorded this 
data. Mr B has provided copies of credit files that show the Barclays account was still 
showing on some CRAs records, but also confirms that this information has now 
been corrected.
I think Mr B was reasonably entitled to think the account had been closed and that no 
annual payment was due. When Mr B became aware Barclays had registered a 
default on the account, Im persuaded this caused Mr B some distress and 
inconvenience  after all Mr B hadnt missed a payment as he believed the account 
had been closed. The default prevented Mr B from financing the solar panels using a 
loan, and he had to use his own funds to make the purchase, which is not what he 
wanted to do. And then when Mr B believed Barclays had amended his credit files, 
he discovered some CRAs were still showing the adverse credit information and had 
to raise the matter with Barclays once more.
I intend saying the impact of Barclays mistake has caused considerable distress, 
upset, and worry to Mr B. It caused Mr B to miss out on the opportunity of paying for 
the solar panels on finance and Mr B was further inconvenienced when he found out 
that some of the CRAs still recorded a default on his account. So, in the 
circumstances of this case, I intend saying that Barclays should pay Mr B £450.
I asked that Mr B, his representative and Barclays to provide further comments for me to 
consider. Mr B and his representative provided comments for me to consider, and Barclays 
accepted my provisional decision and said it had no further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the comments from Mr B and his representative Ive decided to 
adopt my provisional decision as my final decision. I understand this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but I will now explain why.
Mr B and his representative consider my outcome doesnt take into account the significant 
financial loss the error by Barclays caused him and point out that it was 17 months before 
the information held by the CRAs was corrected. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B had a number of loans declined with another bank, and Ive 
seen evidence these were declined due to adverse credit information reported to CRAs by 
Barclays  this isnt disputed. In my provisional decision I referred to an initial loan 
application with a solar panel provider, but it seems from Mr Bs comments that he only 
made applications to another bank, and Ive not seen any loan application to the solar panel 
provider. Im satisfied this doesnt materially affect my decision.Im satisfied Mr B missed the opportunity to pay for the solar panels using a loan, but Ive 
taken this loss of opportunity into account in my remedy. This caused Mr B some 
inconvenience, but I dont think Barclays should pay Mr B the difference in installation costs 
or for the cost of delay in the solar panels being fitted. Although I understand Mr B has 
strong views to the contrary, it seems Mr B did have the option to purchase the solar panels 
earlier from his own resources, so I think it would be unfair and unreasonable for me to tell 
Barclays it must pay for any cost of any delay. 
Mr B and his representative say I havent taken into account the significant worry and stress 
Barclays caused Mr B and point out that it was 17 months before the information held by the 
CRAs was corrected. I accept this was a worrying time for Mr B and that the information held 
by the CRAs reflected the default, but Im satisfied that my final decision takes this into 
account. The remedy is in-line with guidance published on our website. I believe my award 
of £450 is fair and reflects that Barclays error caused Mr B considerable distress, upset and 
worry. Im satisfied it also reflects the significant inconvenience and disruption in applying for 
loans that were ultimately unsuccessful, and that Mr B needed to take extra steps to sort out 
paying for the solar panels from his own resources.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B 
£450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman