DRN-3977438
The complaint
Mr R complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) provided 
him with loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr R took a total of three loans from Lending Stream, and Ive summarised his borrowing 
history in the table below. All the loans had six month terms. 
loan 
numberagreement date loan 
repayments 
 here is the 
highest due loan amount
(amount 
requested  in 
brackets)Scheduled 
repayment date
1 7 May 2017 £237.44 £560
(£780)20 October 2017
2 25 September 2017 £106.05 £320
(£560)29 March 2018
3 3 November 2017 £115.20 £240
(£560)27 April 2018
It appears that Mr R may have entered a repayment agreement for loan 2 in February 2018 
for £29.06 a month. Mr R did not pay beyond June 2018. Similarly with loan 3  the 
repayment plan amount looked to have been £20.93 a month from February 2018 and he did 
not pay beyond June 2018. 
Lending Stream responded to Mr Rs complaint  a brief email on 7 April 2022 - with its final 
response letter dated 13 April 2022 in which it gave reasons why it did not think it needed to 
put things right for Mr R.
Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators considered it and thought the same  that Lending Stream had not done 
anything wrong and he did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. After I had 
reviewed it I asked Mr R for more information about the debts he had in 2017 and if he could 
send more information to me covering that period. Mr R sent to me his credit file and Ill 
come back to that in the main part of the decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have considered several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs 
income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
As a new customer to Lending Stream, it was reasonable of it to rely on the information Mr R 
told it when he applied for the loan. The term was not long  6 months  and the sum was 
relatively modest - £560. 
Mr R had declared on his application form that he was retired and had an income of £1,400 
a month plus outgoings of £375. For loan 1 this was split into £250 for normal expenses 
and £125 a month for his credit-specific expenses. 
However, I have some concerns here simply because of the figures provided to Lending 
Stream by Mr R which, when juxtaposed with the credit search details it obtained, did not 
appear to make logical sense. I come back to this point later in the decision. 
As for Mr Rs regular expenditure, Lending Stream explained in its FRL that:
We asked what you regularly spent on rent, utilities, food, transport, dependent care, 
etc. We checked what you told us with information from independent sources. These 
sources collect statistics related to the economy, population and society. They look at how much people with different levels of income typically spend. If required, we used 
this information to adjust your expenses upwards, and use these new figures in our 
calculations. This helped us take a sensible view of your finances before making any 
decisions.
 
I do not consider this unusual and for a first loan Id consider it proportionate. 
Lending Stream carried out a credit search for each of the three loan applications and for 
each it said that it found nothing to be concerned with. Mr R had nine active accounts of 
which none had defaults or any delinquency status. 
Lending Stream had discovered that Mr R had around £18,000 of debt and so I consider that 
it was not realistic to accept Mr Rs declaration of £250 for normal expenses and £125 a 
month for his credit-specific expenses. I see from the information it gave in the FRL that it 
increased the normal expenses by £71 to £321 a month. But it made no change to the 
credit- specific expenses for this loan or for the following two either. 
And this was despite Mr Rs declared credit-specific expenses figure reducing to £25 a 
month (for the loan 3 application) whereas his debt figure only reduced by about £1,200 to 
around £16,900 at loan 3. 
An overall debt balance of over £18,000 with a declared credit specific expense of £125 a 
month seems non-realistic. And as a creditworthiness assessment is meant to be one 
undertaken from the customers perspective then I consider that more questions ought to 
have been asked. 
Therefore, recently I asked Mr R to send me some details. He said that it was a loan and a 
car finance account that he had in 2017. Hes also sent me a copy of his credit report and 
I consider it reasonable for me to delve into some of the detail as the Lending Stream credit 
search details were so brief  just a line in a spreadsheet. And I say this because if Lending 
Stream had recognised it needed to do more, then obtaining detail about that £18,000 debt 
figure would be the right starting point. 
The credit report Mr R has sent is of limited use as its dated March 2022 and so not all the 
accounts he had in 2017 show as there is a six year period for debts to be reported on 
individuals credit files. But it does show accounts which may have commenced in 2017 and 
are still open and/or accounts that have closed and are listed from which I can see the ones 
that were open in 2017.  So, that has been helpful. But I do point out to Mr R that a credit 
search carried out by a lending business and a personal credit report do not always retrieve 
the same information from the credit reference agencies (CRAs). I am aware of that and in 
fairness to Lending Stream I have accounted for that. 
 
From that credit report from Mr R, I have gathered  some details. I have omitted from the list 
that follows accounts which had already closed in 2017 or any taken after November 2017 
as they pre-date or post-date Mr Rs lending relationship with Lending Stream and so are 
irrelevant. Mr Rs credit report provides me with the following details I consider relevant: 
in February 2017 Mr R started paying for a loan with a starting balance of £5,500 and 
it was scheduled to be 48 payments of £151. It looks like Mr R has had recent trouble 
paying for that loan as he is in arrears. But those more recent arrears have no 
relevance when I am being asked to consider a complaint about the three loans 
taken in 2017. But it does tell me that when Mr R applied for each of the Lending 
Stream loans he was committed to £151 a month. There are no payment history 
entries for 2017 due to it being over the six year period.
Mr R had the usual utility, phone/landline/broadband and mobile phone 
commitments. Ive no prices for those and these likely would have been included in 
Lending Streams general expenditure research figure anyway.
 
He had two current accounts in 2017
Mr R had a credit card account which started in August 2016. Now it is in early 
arrears but theres no credit limit, or balance information or payment details for 2017.
Mr R had a bank credit card which had commenced in June 1983  theres no credit 
limit, or balance information or payment details for 2017.
He had a credit card that started in January 2017  no payment issues in 2017.
He had a supermarket branded credit card that started January 2017 and the records 
show all was fine with it in 2017.
The Hire Purchase account for the car started in May 2015 with a starting balance of 
£4,594 and Mr R was committed to 48 payments of £123. It was satisfied June 2019. 
The payments since 2015 were showing as all fine. 
He had a bank loan for £5,370 which started 20 February 2017, and Mr R was 
committed to 60 payments of £159. It defaulted in 2019, but the payments in 2017 
were up to date.
 
Mr R had a mail order account which had started 15 February 2016. It was defaulted 
in 2018, and he had early arrears Sept 2017.
Adding up what I consider having been Mr Rs actual credit commitments for loan 1, and 
which I think Lending Stream would have known about if it had asked further questions, then 
I think his total monthly commitment was £433 a month plus he had four credit cards. So if 
I add on an assumed amount of say £100 a month to maintain those then that makes the 
figure of around £533. Plus, Mr R had a mail order account. So, I think I could round it up to 
say £550 a month.
Even doing that research and calculations I think that with an income of £1,400 a month 
Mr R was able to afford loan 1.
My view is the same about loan 2 as although it overlapped for one month, Mr R was 
approved for a smaller loan than when he approached Lending Stream for loan 2 and the 
repayments reduced to about £106 a month. 
After a month, with five months to run on loan 2 still, and having just paid off loan 1 a few 
days earlier in October 2017, Mr R approached Lending Stream again. This time Mr R would have been paying for loans 2 and 3 together for a while but the combined repayments were 
£221 a month which was less than the monthly repayments for loan 1.
Overall, and having investigated the credit element more thoroughly, I think that had Lending 
Stream carried out the same research it would still have approved the loans for Mr R.
I recognise from Mr Rs credit file he sent to me recently that his financial situation has 
deteriorated in recent years and I am sorry to see that. But at the time Lending Stream was 
approving these three loans the overall picture was relatively good. 
So, for the reasons given, I agree with our adjudicators view and I do not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman