DRN-3197881
The complaint
Mr M complains that Simplyhealth Access trading as Simplyhealth refused to refund any of 
his dental insurance premiums or extend his period of cover. My references to Simplyhealth 
include its agents.
What happened
Mr M had dental insurance through his employer, insured by Simplyhealth. The policy 
started on 1 January 2020 and renewed on 1 January 2021.
On 23 March 2020 national restrictions on movement known as lockdown was imposed by 
the UK government due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In June 2020 dentists started to resume 
routine care.
On 20 January 2021 Mr M called Simplyhealth to ask if it would refund some premiums or 
extend the cover period as he couldnt use his dental policy during the first lockdown.  
Simplyhealth said it had offered payment holidays (deferred payments) or benefit extensions 
to some customers if they had contacted it for assistance but that was no longer possible.  
Mr M complained as Simplyhealth didnt contact him to say it was offering payment holidays 
or benefit extensions. He wants four months of premiums refunded or extension of his cover.
Simplyhealth said it had offered payment holidays/benefit extensions options to individuals 
who contacted it and met certain criteria. Mr Ms employer hadnt contacted it to ask if that 
would be possible. There had been information on its website which directed customers to 
contact it to discuss options. And Simplyhealth said that during the lockdown period Mr M 
still had access to his emergency and injury allowance if hed needed emergency dental 
care, as well as some other benefits under the policy.  
Our investigator said Simplyhealth had acted fairly and didnt need to refund Mr M any 
premium or give an extension of his cover.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said dentists were shut during the 
first lockdown, he couldnt get an appointment and Simplyhealth should have written to him 
about his options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I think Simplyhealth has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of the contract with 
Simplyhealth as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
employers contract with Simplyhealth. The plan is for one year and premiums must be paid 
for Simplyhealth to provide cover during that year. There is no provision in the policy for 
Simplyhealth to provide payment holidays or to extend/defer annual policies during the policy 
year.
Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the 
duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy.
Simplyhealth provided cover to Mr M under the policy from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 
2020. Simplyhealth is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of him 
making a claim during the policy year, even if he didnt make a claim.
Dental practices were temporarily impacted by closures and restricted services between 
23 March and June/July 2020. But that means Mr M would have been able to have the full 
benefits provided by the policy for the majority of the policy year affected. So Im satisfied 
Simplyhealth is entitled to retain the premiums paid to cover the risk of a claim being made 
during that time.
The closure of private and NHS dental practices was a result of government restrictions to 
prevent the spread of Covid-19. That was an unprecedented and unforeseen circumstance 
which was entirely outside of Simplyhealths control. But although dental services were 
restricted for a limited period of time, I cant reasonably say the policy benefits were 
unusable. During that period Simplyhealth was still offering its policyholders cover for any 
accident and emergency treatment and other benefits, that it detailed to Mr M, which 
included a 24 hour emergency helpline. Ive listened to the 20 January 2021 call and Mr M 
told Simplyhealth hed been unable to have the root canal treatment he needed as dentists 
were closed. But he also confirmed he hadnt contacted Simplyhealth about the matter and 
I think if he had it could have helped him access appropriate emergency assistance. 
Simplyhealth agreed payment holidays/extension to eligible customers who contacted it 
during the relevant period but this wasnt something offered to all its customers. The 
insurance industry regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), acknowledged that the 
Covid-19 pandemic may impact on policyholders financial situations and issued guidance 
over the months following lockdown which set out some of the options insurers could offer 
their customers to assist them. One of these options was a payment holiday. Given the 
FCAs guidance I think Simplyhealth acted reasonably in offering the options if an eligible 
customer contacted it for assistance, rather than it contacting all its customers to offer the 
options. Mr Ms employer didnt contact it to see if assistance was possible. 
As I think Simplyhealth acted fairly theres no basis for me to require it to refund any 
premiums to Mr M or ask it to extend his cover. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman