DRN-4142535
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat him fairly when his mortgage fell into 
arrears. He asks that it switches his mortgage to interest only payments, extends the term 
and removes adverse data from his credit file. 
What happened
Mr Ms mortgage account fell into arrears during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr M proposed 
switching his mortgage to interest only payments. He says this would have given him time to 
recover financially and return to a repayment basis, or maintain a clean credit file so he 
could re-mortgage elsewhere or make an orderly sale of the property. Mr M says he had 
worked in an industry where adverse data on his credit file would cause difficulties.
Mr M says Barclays unfairly recorded arrears on his credit file and didnt respond to his 
proposals to switch to interest only payments, ideally with a term extension. He says it 
recently passed his account to solicitors, despite confirming that it wouldnt start legal action.
We told Mr M that we cant look into all parts of his complaint. Thats because some parts of 
his complaint were brought to us outside the time limits we must apply. We told Mr M we can 
look into:
his complaint about his account being passed to solicitors, and 
what support Barclays offered to Mr M, how it responded to his proposals and whether it 
recorded data on his credit file fairly from 16 November 2021.
Our investigator said Barclays followed the regulators guidance when it granted Mr M six 
months of payment deferrals during the Covid-19 pandemic. After this, Mr M was unable to 
resume payments. He said Mr M hadnt maintained monthly payments and it was right for 
Barclays to record this on his credit file. 
Our investigator said Barclays started legal action prematurely and should pay £300 
compensation. He said Barclays should now engage with Mr M to explore whether there was 
a suitable solution, taking account of Mr Ms circumstances. 
Barclays agreed to pay the compensation and said it would contact Mr M to discuss his 
arrears and his proposals for repayment.
Mr M said his only request was for his mortgage to switch to an interest only basis, ideally 
with a term extension to maximum age. He said Barclays should have anticipated customers 
with a short remaining term emerging from the pandemic with unaffordable higher payments. 
He said if Barclays had responded fairly, he wouldnt have missed payments, so there would 
have been no damage to his credit file. 
Mr M asked about the basis on which we award compensation. He said £300 isnt enough 
for the impact of being taken to court and facing losing his home. He said Barclays hadnt 
met the regulators guidance or its own statements about supporting customers to stay in 
their homes
Mr M says he now has a good job and hed like Barclays to remove the adverse credit so he 
can re-mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M asked about the basis on which we award compensation. If I find that Barclays made 
an error, I can require it to put matters right. When awarding compensation, I consider the 
impact of the error on Mr M. Theres more information about this on our website.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive set out briefly what happened before mid-November 2021, as its the context for the 
complaint Im looking into. But I must be clear that Im not looking into, or making any 
findings about, Barclays response to Mr Ms proposals before mid-November 2021. As Ive 
said, I can only look into what happened from 16 November 2021.
Prior to November 2021 Mr M made a number of requests to switch to interest only 
payments, preferably with a term extension. His plan was to switch to interest only terms 
until his financial position recovered from difficulties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. He 
says hed have been able to maintain interest only payments and thereby maintain his credit 
record.
Mr M says if hed been told this wasnt possible hed have taken other action  to sell the 
property or re-mortgage. He says this request was never answered and, as a result, 
Barclays recorded missed payments on his credit file. 
Barclays sent a final response letter to Mr M in mid-November 2021. It set out its income 
criteria for an interest only mortgage, and said Mr M would have to evidence that he met this. 
It said it hadnt referred Mr Ms request to its underwriters as there was no possibility of its 
decision (that he didnt meet this criteria) being overturned. Barclays apologised for not 
giving Mr M a clear answer before, and set out details of its customer home assistance 
team, which it said could support him in resolving his arrears. 
Barclays has to record accurate and up to date information with the credit reference 
agencies. By November 2021 Mr Ms mortgage account had arrears of about £30,000. After 
this, further payments were missed or not made in full. I dont think Barclays made an error 
when it reported this to the credit reference agencies, and I cant fairly require Barclays to 
remove the adverse data.
Barclays told Mr M hed need to contact the customer home assistance team and complete 
an affordability assessment to discuss a term extension or change in his payment terms, or 
what other support could be offered. Barclays told Mr M it couldnt assess what help it could 
offer without income and expenditure information. 
Barclays records say it tried to contact Mr M to discuss his arrears without success. In early 
2022 it decided the account met its criteria for litigation and it passed the account to 
solicitors, to start recovery action.Mr M raised a complaint, saying Barclays shouldnt have passed the account to solicitors 
when he was trying to get the account moved to interest only or extend the term.
Rules of mortgage regulation say that taking possession is a last resort, when all other 
reasonable efforts to resolve the matter have failed. This doesnt mean Barclays had to 
agree to Mr Ms proposals. I think Mr M was aware by late November 2021 that Barclays 
hadnt agreed to his proposal to switch to interest only payments, and hed need to contact 
the customer home assistance team to see what options were available.
But I would expect Barclays to explore what options might be available to Mr M and make 
reasonable efforts to reach a suitable agreement about how arrears will be repaid, before 
starting litigation. As Mr M points out, Barclays acknowledges this in its own statements. I 
note also that Barclays made attempts to contact Mr M, and asked him to contact its 
customer home assistance team to discuss his arrears. 
I understand that Mr M believes the proposal he made is right for him. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr M, but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Barclays to switch his 
mortgage to interest only payments. Barclays will need information from Mr M about his 
circumstances to explore what options are available and if theres a suitable solution. Mr M 
will need to engage with Barclays and provide the information it requests for it to consider 
with him what options might be available.
Barclays agreed to pay £300 compensation for the upset caused to Mr M by starting 
litigation prematurely. It says it will contact Mr M to discuss his account. I think this is fair.
Mr M says £300 compensation doesnt recognise the impact of facing the loss of his home 
and tens of thousands of equity due to a forced sale and the impact of the court ruling. 
Theres no doubt Mr M is in a difficult position, and this must be stressful. But I need to take 
into account the wider circumstances. The reason Mr M is at risk of losing his home is due to 
the level of arrears on his account, and not having an arrangement in place to address the 
arrears. Barclays gave Mr M details of the customer home assistance team to discuss ways 
to resolve his arrears. Taking all this into account, I think for the additional distress caused 
by Barclays starting litigation prematurely £300 is fair and reasonable.
Barclays says it will contact Mr M to discuss repayment of the arrears. I would urge Mr M to 
respond to Barclays with the information it requests to explore what options  if any  might 
be available to him. Mr M says he now has a good job and this might mean he does have 
options available. Ultimately though, if Mr M doesnt have other means to repay the 
mortgage debt, Barclays will be entitled to recover the debt through the sale of the property.
Mr M says Barclays didnt provide the evidence bundle or give him time to organise 
advocacy before the court hearing. Courts have their own rules and processes. If Mr M is 
concerned the correct process wasnt followed this is a matter better raised with the court. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300 to Mr M and make reasonable 
efforts to contact him to explore what options might be available to resolve his arrears.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman