DRN-2876345
The complaint
Mr N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt covered his private medical 
insurance claim in full, and thinks that it misled him about a policy limit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts arent in dispute and so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ns policy has a limit of £1,000 per policy year for out-patient treatment, including 
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT). 
In January 2020, Mr N started CBT treatment which had been authorised by AXA. I 
think it was Mr Ns responsibility to keep track of his sessions to make sure he didnt 
go over the policy limit.
In May 2020, Mr N was aware from his online account that his remaining outpatient 
limit at that time was £230. He checked this with AXA, and it confirmed that he had 
£230 remaining for that policy year, based on the invoices it had received. 
The following month, Mr N asked AXA to extend its authorisation for a further six 
CBT sessions. AXA did so. I agree with our investigator that it wouldve been helpful 
if AXA had reminded Mr N how much he had left of his policy limit, given that he was 
approaching the maximum amount. Though I dont think Mr N was disadvantaged by 
its failure to do so, since he knew the previous month that he only had £230 
remaining for the policy year (and further sessions had taken place since then). I also 
note that when AXA authorised the further sessions, it reminded Mr N that his policy 
covered him up to a maximum of £1,000 per policy year. 
It seems Mr N understood that he had £1,000 limit for the policy year, but he thought 
that because AXA was authorising six further sessions, that meant that it was also 
increasing his policy limit. Its unfortunate that Mr N thought this, but I dont think 
AXAs correspondence gave that impression. 
After AXA received further invoices, it paid the policy limit of £1,000. That meant that 
any treatment costs above that amount were Mr Ns responsibility. I think that was 
fair and in line with the policy terms. I dont think AXA misled Mr N about his policy 
limit.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman