DRN-2528378
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a holiday cottage he and his wife rented. Because he 
paid for the rental using his credit card issued by Santander UK Plc, he believes that 
Santander should reimburse him. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr W booked a seven night stay in a cottage in Dorset, starting later that 
month. 
Mr W says that the owner of the cottage explained that there had been a double-booking, so 
he and his wife agreed to take an alternative in the same location. 
There were, however, a number of issues with the accommodation. Mr W says that it was 
not clean, that the equipment and furniture supplied with it were worn out and that it was not 
easily accessible for him as a wheelchair user. Mr and Mrs W cut their holiday short. 
Mr W then submitted a claim to Santander. He said that Santander should refund the 
payment he had made for the cottage, as he had used its credit card to pay for it. Santander 
did not agree. It said the payment had been made to the booking agent, Hoseasons, but that 
Mr Ws contract for the supply of the cottage was with the owner, an individual. 
Mr W referred the matter to this service, where on of our investigators considered it. He 
reached the same conclusion as Santander had. That is, Mr W did not have the protection of 
the relevant parts of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Santander did not have to meet any 
claim he might have against the owner of the property. Mr W didnt accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Subject to certain conditions, one effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is 
that an individual who uses a credit card to pay for goods or services and who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods or services 
may have a like claim against the credit card provider. One of those conditions is that the 
transaction must be financed under arrangements between the card provider and the 
supplier against whom the card holder has a claim. I have therefore considered whether that 
is the position here. 
Mr W made his booking through Hoseasons, which is a trading name of Vacation Rentals 
(UK) Ltd. Importantly, he also made the credit card payment to Hoseasons. Mr Ws contract 
for the rental of the cottage was not, however, with Hoseasons but with the owner of the 
property. Hoseasons booking confirmation said that it acted as agent for the owner, and its 
Booking Conditions set out in several places that it was not responsible for any actions or 
failure to act of the owner or for any faults or problems with the property. 
It follows that Mr Ws contract for the cottage rental was with its owner, not Hoseasons. If he 
has a claim for breach of contract (and I make no comment on that), it is a claim against the 
owner. That contract was not, however, financed under arrangements between the property 
owner and Santander; it was financed under arrangements between Hoseasons and 
Santander. 
Section 75 can also apply where there are arrangements between a credit provider and an 
associate of the supplier of goods or services. The definition of associate however is linked 
to ownership and control of a business; it is not sufficient that one business acts as agent for 
another.
For these reasons, I do not believe that Santander has any liability to Mr W under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and it would not therefore be fair to require it to 
compensate him. I stress however that I make no comment on any claim Mr W might have 
against the propertys owner, and this decision will not affect any rights he may have to take 
action against them.          
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman