DRN-3052308
The complaint
Mr H complains that he called Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) to amend the make 
of television covered under his entertainment equipment insurance policy held with it. He 
says D&G didnt amend its records. So when his television needed a repair it wasnt 
covered. He would like D&G to honour his claim. Or refund him the premiums hes paid for 
cover he says wasnt fit for purpose.
What happened
Mr H started his entertainment equipment insurance policy with D&G on 18 May 2016. The 
policy provided cover for his set-top box and linked equipment. Additional Equipment - such 
as televisions  could be added to the policy. But the terms and conditions required any such 
Additional Equipment to have been registered on the policy before any claim relating to that 
item could be made. 
Mr Hs television developed a fault on 18 August 2019. So he called D&G the next day to 
make a claim. He was told during that call that his television wasnt covered, as it wasnt 
registered under his policy.
Mr H complained to D&G. He said hed called on two previous occasions to update the 
equipment covered under his policy, including his television. He felt D&G hadnt updated its 
records. And that the repair or replacement of his current television should be covered.
D&G didnt uphold his complaint. It said itd reviewed all the calls between it and Mr H since 
the policy take up call on 18 May 2016. But it couldnt find any evidence that hed called to 
amend the television covered under his policy. So it said it couldnt cover the present 
television as it hadnt been registered. And it couldnt be registered now as it had a pre-
existing fault.
Unhappy with the response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He felt that due to 
the lack of cover hed received a refund of premiums for the whole period of insurance 
should be provided. Or his claim should be covered.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She felt that D&G had acted fairly under the 
circumstances. Shed seen no evidence that Mr H had registered the faulty television before 
his claim.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt D&G wasnt being entirely truthful. So his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think D&G made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly. Having 
thought carefully about everything he and D&G has said and the evidence provided, Im 
afraid I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons behind my decision. 
Mr H said that he called D&G shortly after taking out his policy to update the television it 
covered. He said that he did this on two occasions while he held the policy, moving from one 
brand of television, to another, and then finally to the one he was claiming for. 
For me to decide that D&G should refund any premiums Mr H has paid, or should cover the 
claim, I need to be satisfied that it made a mistake. So I need evidence that Mr H contacted 
D&G to update the television covered under his policy with it.
Im satisfied that D&G has provided me with recordings of all the calls made between it and 
Mr H throughout the life of his policy. Ive listened to all of those calls. But I cant find 
anything to show that Mr H called to update the television covered under his policy. 
Mr H is adamant that he phoned to update the television covered under his policy on two 
occasions. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that theres no record of any such 
calls. I acknowledge that this doesnt necessarily mean no calls were made. But I have to 
consider what is most likely to have happened. So Ive also considered what other 
information D&G provided to Mr H. I wanted to confirm if there was any other evidence that 
suggested that D&G shouldve registered the television claimed for on the policy. 
From the information provided, I can see that the policy renewed each year after 2016 until 
Mr H cancelled it on 28 September 2020. Every March, D&G sent information about the 
upcoming renewal. This included details of the Additional Equipment covered under the 
policy. These letters were based on the information D&G held on its systems. So wouldve 
confirmed that the only television covered under the policy was the original television Mr H 
had initially registered. So I consider that Mr H had several additional reminders to update 
the television covered under his policy.
The terms and conditions of the policy state that Additional Equipment can be added to the 
policy by phone, in writing or by email. Section 8f of the terms and conditions states: Note, 
you must register any replacements of Additional Equipment with us if you wish to add these 
to the [name] Policy, as they will not be added automatically. So I note that there were 
several methods of registering a replacement television on the policy. Its the policyholders 
responsibility to update D&G of any changes. But Im not persuaded that the requirement to 
register a new piece of Additional Equipment is particularly onerous.
From what Ive seen, theres no record of Mr H calling D&G to amend his policy. Im also 
satisfied that the renewal letters it sent wouldve shown which Additional Equipment was 
covered under the policy. 
On balance of probability, Im not persuaded that Mr H did update the television covered 
under the policy. So I dont consider that D&G did anything wrong. And therefore it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to refund the premiums Mr H has paid or refund him for 
the replacement television he bought. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman