DRN-3625836
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
turned down its claim for loss of profits. 
Mrs G and Mr H, directors of D, have brought the complaint on Ds behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds includes anything done by the underwriting 
syndicate or their agents. 
What happened
D held commercial insurance with Lloyds which covers a loss of profits. D tried to claim on 
its policy after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. Lloyds said Ds claim wouldnt be covered as it hadnt closed due to a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at Ds premises, as required by Ds policy. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, D brought its complaint to our service. D said that it had 
closed on 16 March 2020 as one of the directors had been feeling unwell the previous week 
with symptoms of Covid-19 which included a loss of taste and smell.
D said one of the directors had called Mrs G on 18 March 2020 and advised that he was 
feeling lethargic and had lost his sense of taste and smell. D also provided a copy of a text 
message from the director detailing some symptoms as well as signed statements from two 
members of staff confirming that the director had told them hed been unwell, which included 
losing his sense of smell and taste. 
D was also unhappy that when it had requested a claim form, Lloyds had instead replied to 
say Ds claim wouldnt be covered. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he wasnt 
persuaded that D had shown it was most likely a case of Covid-19 manifested at its 
premises
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Commercial insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but different 
policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if Lloyds 
have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Ds claim.
D has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all in this decision 
and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint. 
The relevant extension in Ds policy covers:
Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a 
notifiable human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Ds claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. I consider that a court would most likely find that 
for Covid-19 to have manifested someone would need to have either been diagnosed with 
Covid-19 or displayed symptoms which on the balance of probabilities were Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case manifesting at the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
The text message D provided is dated 18 March 2020 and says that the director and his 
daughter are unwell and that the director had felt a bit stuffy with a sore throat since the 
previous day. D said the director had felt lethargic and lost his sense of taste and smell while 
at the premises and then felt stuffy and developed a sore throat a few days later. There are 
also signed statements from two others who work with the director which confirm that they 
were working with him before the premises closed and he told them both he had no energy 
and had lost his sense of taste and smell. 
The contemporaneous evidence indicates that at least some of the directors symptoms 
started at home, after leaving Ds premises, though the witness statements and the 
testimony from Mrs G suggest that the director was unwell beforehand while still working at 
the premises. 
 
However, while the directors symptoms are consistent with Covid-19, they can also be 
caused by other illnesses and I have to bear in mind that many people who were unwell at 
this time didnt have Covid-19.  
While Ive considered the testimony and statements in relation to Ds lack of energy and lack 
of sense of taste and smell, in the absence of other persuasive contemporaneous evidence, 
I dont think D has shown that its more likely than not that Covid-19 manifested at its 
premises. Therefore, I think Lloyds have acted fair and reasonably in finding that this 
extension didnt provide cover. 
D is also unhappy that when it tried to claim Lloyds indicated that its claim wouldnt be 
covered rather than sending out a claim form. I think Lloyds were trying to provide an 
answer as quickly as possible, but I can understand why D found this frustrating because it 
didnt think Lloyds had taken the time to understand its claim. However, even if I thought Lloyds had acted unreasonably, I dont think this caused D a loss as, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think the policy provides cover in the circumstances. 
I recognise this isnt the answer D was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont believe that I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman