DRN-3156882
The complaint
Mr D complains that Openwork Limited (Openwork) made an error when buying funds within 
his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says that having accepted it made an error 
Openwork hasnt used the correct dates when calculating his financial loss.
What happened
Mr D held a SIPP which was administered by Openwork. He had a relationship whereby he 
would contact his adviser to request the buying and selling of various funds, although shortly 
before the events in question his account was held in cash after he withdrew his tax free 
cash lump sum.
On 19 July 2019 Mr D emailed his adviser and support staff to buy into some funds for his 
SIPP and investment account. The instruction didnt go through so Mr D asked for it to be 
retried on 22 July 2019. This instruction was confirmed the same day, however it was 
incorrectly keyed which meant that the wrong amounts were invested in each fund. Mr D 
says the delay meant he paid around £100 more for the funds but he accepted that as 
negligible.
On 30 July 2019 Mr D says he was thinking of selling the funds and engaged in a WhatsApp 
conversation with his adviser which ended with him saying, likely I will (sell) though. 
It was at this time that Mr D says he found out that his original instruction to buy funds had 
been incorrectly allocated. He says he went online to decide what action to take but decided 
he wanted the mistake corrected before he sold the stock and lost out financially.
On 31 July 2019 Mr D discussed how to resolve the matter with his adviser. It was agreed 
that he could either cash in the funds, work out the loss hed suffered, and be repaid by the 
adviser or allow a rebalance trade across his funds. Mr D confirmed he wanted his portfolio 
to be rebalanced. 
 
On 1 August 2019 Mr Ds adviser said hed carried out a calculation which showed Mr D was 
substantially better off as a result of the error but, when he rechecked, he decided that was 
incorrect. Mr D decided to carry on with his request for a rebalance and provided the adviser 
with an analysis of his current position against the one he would have been in had he sold 
the funds on 31 July 2019. 
Mr D says he didnt receive an answer to the analysis but had cause to communicate with 
the adviser over the following week in respect of a withdrawal he needed to make from his 
investment account for the purchase of a car. Mr D says he didnt like the tone of the 
questions he was asked about the reason for the withdrawal and, compounded by the 
previous administrative errors, he decided to give Openwork advance warning of his 
intention to move to another platform in an email dated 5 August 2019. 
Openworks adviser instructed the platform to sell Mr Ds funds on that date and they 
remained in cash until Mr D transferred his plan to a new provider which completed on 
30 September 2019. 
Mr D says he had to encash his funds before they could be invested onto a new provider 
platform and as a result, he complained to Openwork about the loss he said he suffered from 
the dates that were used to rebalance his investment. He said he would like:
The loss he suffered from Openworks calculation compared to his own when 
deciding when he would have sold the funds. He estimated this to be around £6,000.
The adviser charge he incurred when transferring his plan to a new platform.
Any penalties he incurred on transferring to be waived/refunded.
Compensation for any lost investment opportunity when he decided to transfer and 
his funds were held in cash for some time.
Openwork responded to the complaint making the following points:
It didnt believe that the original advice to transfer to its platform in 2017 was 
unsuitable therefore it didnt agree to refund its initial advice fee. Although Mr D later 
confirmed this point related to a misunderstanding around his request for a refund of 
his initial set up costs with his new provider upon transferring in September 2019.
It could see that Mr D often contacted his adviser out of hours to move funds quickly 
and regularly. It said that the advisers role was to give financial advice and although 
he had managed to entertain Mr Ds requests up to now, it didnt think that its model 
was still suitable for Mr Ds requirements with the way he managed his SIPP. So it 
didnt think it should reimburse its fees.
It calculated the loss that Mr D would have suffered if his investments had been 
made correctly on 19 July instead of 22 July 2019 and were sold on 5 August 2019. It 
said it would round up Mr Ds loss to £500 to include recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered. In addition, it sent a payment of £200 compensation for 
the delay in answering his complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree. He said Openwork had simply used the original sell dates of 
5 August 2019 to carry out its loss calculation whereas his intention had been to sell on 
31 July 2019  which he thought hed demonstrated through his submission. He said he 
didnt accept Openworks offer because it hadnt used the correct dates. He was also unable 
to accept its offer for the distress and inconvenience caused because it required him to 
complete a form which declared in full and final settlement, which he didnt accept it was. 
Mr D also confirmed that the advice fee he was requesting to be refunded was the one hed 
incurred from the new provider when hed transferred his pension. 
Openwork didnt change its decision but said it would increase its total offer of 
compensation, to include a further sum of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
to £727.09.
Mr D didnt accept the revised offer and brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought Openworks offer to resolve the complaint 
was fair. He thought the two dates Openwork had used to calculate any financial loss were 
appropriate and he didnt think Mr Ds instruction of 30 July 2019 constituted a clear enough 
request to actually sell his funds at that time. He was satisfied with the basis of Openworks 
calculation and the redress it provided and thought the total payment, including for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D wanted Openwork to explain why it had rebalanced his SIPP on 1 August 2019 but 
used a date of 5 August 2019 in its calculation. He also questioned why it had deducted tax 
from his redress if the money was to be paid into a pension.The investigator explained that he was satisfied with the dates used for the corrections and 
when the funds were moved to cash. He also explained that the notional tax reduction was 
to allow for the income tax that Mr D would have had to pay on the proceeds if hed received 
them as part of his pension benefits. Namely that 25% would have been tax free and the 
remainder taxed at his marginal rate thereby giving an overall reduction of 15% - based on 
being a basic rate tax payer.  
 
Mr D remained unhappy with the outcome and in requesting that his complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman he set out the following summary of his case:
There was no dispute that Openwork made an error in managing his SIPP.
He was the one who highlighted the error to the adviser and the advisers first 
reaction was to create confusion with incorrect calculations.
He believed his actions demonstrated his intention to sell funds by 31 July 2019. 
It was unfair that Openwork used 19 July 2019 as the starting point for the 
transaction as that simply reduced its offer. He had raised no objection to the date 
originally used to calculate the start of the loss - which was 22 July 2019.
The adviser had confirmed by text that a rebalance had been completed on 
1 August 2019, however Openwork used a sell date of 5 August 2019. Mr D thought 
this conflicted with its advisers confirmation. 
We should decide, on the evidence provided, that he was more likely to have 
confirmed his instruction to sell on 31 July 2019.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld, because I thought 
Openwork should use different dates to calculate any potential loss. I made the following 
points in support of my findings:
There was no doubt that Openwork failed to execute Mr Ds original request to buy 
funds and then purchased the incorrect amount of each fund. 
I thought that Mr Ds original request to buy funds on 19 July 2019 should have been 
used as the intending buying date in the calculation as it was clear this was the date 
he made his request.
I didnt think the date of 31 July 2019 should be used as the selling date for the 
calculation as I didnt think Mr Ds message exchange with his adviser constituted a 
clear instruction to sell funds. I didnt believe this exchange was as definitive as the 
previous instructions hed made to sell funds. 
But equally there was no evidence for why Openwork should have used the date of 
5 August 2019 as the sell date in its calculation. Mr D had given no instruction to sell 
funds on this date although he did send an email to the adviser saying that he would 
be seeking an alternative provider for his funds. But he specifically requested that his 
account remained tradeable with Openwork until he found an alternative provider.
The platform provider confirmed that it had sold funds on 5 August 2019 because of 
an instruction from Mr Ds adviser  but there was no evidence that Mr D had asked 
the adviser to make such a request.  
Openwork should calculate any potential loss as a result of its error by comparing the 
value of Mr Ds SIPP portfolio on the date it was transferred against the value it 
would have had if the funds had been bought, in the correct amounts, on 
19 July 2019 and then sold as close to the transfer date as would be allowed under 
Openworks service levels. Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Openwork initially 
asked for evidence that its adviser had instructed the sale of the funds and when we 
provided that information it accepted my findings and proposed formula for calculating the 
redress. However, following information provided by the new provider, Openwork said it 
would use the day after Mr D instructed the transfer as the date his funds would have been 
sold, if I accepted that suggestion.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so and because both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see 
no reason to depart from them.
Mr Ds relationship with his Openwork adviser meant that he would often contact him to buy 
and sell funds in his SIPP and investment account. An instruction to buy amounts of three 
funds was made on 19 July 2019 but unfortunately wasnt placed at the time. Mr D then 
contacted his adviser on 22 July 2019 and the instruction was resent but was keyed 
incorrectly so the amounts purchased in each fund were incorrect. 
When this error was discovered Mr D was asked if he wanted the funds to be sold and 
rebought in the correct amounts  with an adjustment for any loss suffered, or if he wanted 
his SIPP portfolio to be rebalanced. He chose the second alternative, so a rebalance was 
made around 1 August 2019 but it would appear the funds were then sold on 5 August 2019. 
Mr D complained and said the error had caused him to suffer a financial loss. Openwork, 
having carried out its own calculations, said it would pay him a total of £727.09 for the 
financial loss and the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.  Thats because Openwork 
calculated that Mr Ds funds should have been bought on July 2019 and sold, based on the 
evidence it had seen, on 5 August 2019. However, Mr D said he was happy to use the 
buying date of 22 July 2019 on which Openwork did actually buy his funds, but he said his 
intention was to sell the funds on 31 July 2019  which he thought was clear from the 
evidence he provided about the ongoing communication between him and his adviser.
So I need to decide what dates should be used in order to calculate a fair and reasonable 
resolution to put Mr D, as far as possible, as close to the position he would be in now had 
Openwork carried out his instruction correctly.
Mr Ds instruction of 19 July 2019 was accompanied by a text to his adviser confirming as 
requested just a prompt to confirm I have requested some buys this morning but sure it will 
be fine.  Unfortunately, the instruction wasnt carried out and had to be resent on 22 July  
but that doesnt mean Mr D didnt want to buy the funds on 19 July 2019. So I think that, 
when trying to put right any error that occurred, that date should be used as thats when 
Mr D intended to buy the funds. I know Mr D said he was content with the date of 
22 July 2019 being used, but thats not consistent with what he originally requested.
Ive then gone on to consider what date should be used to calculate the end date for any 
loss involved, or in other words the date the funds were or should have been sold. Ive 
considered Mr Ds conversation with the adviser on 30 July 2019, during which he said, hes 
at it again...time to sell out of US again? Futures were up all morning and he tweets...they go 
negative!! and then when asked, is that a request, or are you ruminating at this point?, he 
replied Ruminating. likely I will thoughMr D said this supports his claim that he was going to sell his funds on that date, but I dont 
think it does. I dont consider that the text Mr D sent was a clear sign of intent and I dont 
think it acted as an instruction to sell. And when compared with Mr Ds other instructions to 
buy and sell funds throughout 2019, I dont think the 30 July one was definitive. But even if I 
am wrong in my judgement of Mr Ds intentions, he contacted the adviser the following day 
and said as promised Ive sent you a mail. No sell but rebalance between funds to what 
they should be (unit allocation) if possible as you suggestedta.  
I think this was a clear instruction not to sell, so I cant reasonably say a sale should have 
been instructed on the back of Mr Ds email. I know Mr D says that he didnt sell because he 
wanted Openwork to put right any losses before he sold funds, but I would have expected 
him still to have sold at that time to mitigate his position if he thought that was the right 
course of action. Openwork could still have calculated any loss suffered up to that point. So I 
dont think its fair to use the date of 31 July 2019 as the end date for the calculation.
But at the same time Ive also looked at the date Openwork did use, and Im not persuaded 
that date was correct either. Ive seen that Mr D made Openwork aware of his intention to 
terminate their relationship in an email to the adviser on 5 August 2019. But theres no 
evidence to show that he gave an instruction to sell his funds on that date, he simply asked 
Openwork to provide me with the opportunity to transact as needed until a suitable new 
platform has been sourced.
Mr D would have been aware from Openworks terms and condition that if he switched 
providers he would have needed to encash his investments and couldnt simply transfer 
them in-specie. But he didnt request they were sold at that time as he hadnt found a new 
provider. Ive been provided with evidence from the existing providing platform to show that 
Mr Ds adviser made the request to sell his funds. Its unclear why he did this without a 
specific instruction  although Mr D had requested some encashment from another of his 
accounts at the same time, so it could simply have been confusion which led to the 
instruction to sell of all the funds. But the fact remains that Mr D didnt request that his SIPP 
funds were sold so they shouldnt have been. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to use the 5 August 2019 as the end or selling date to calculate Mr Ds 
potential loss as he didnt request a sale on that date. However, Mr D did ultimately transfer 
his SIPP to another provider, and I think its fair and reasonable to use that date as the 
selling date. In my provisional decision I said Openwork should use the date that it would 
have needed to encash the funds in order to satisfy the actual transfer date. Openwork said 
it would use the day after Mr D instructed his transfer as that would have been when it would 
have sold the funds to cash in preparation for the transfer.
I think thats a reasonable position to take, so Openwork should carry out the calculation as 
set out below, using the date after the platform received an instruction that Mr D wished to 
transfer his funds elsewhere. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly, Openwork must:
Reconstruct Mr Ds SIPP portfolio to reflect the purchases, for the correct amounts ofeach fund, that he asked to make on 19 July 2019.
Establish the position of the portfolio when it was transferred on 30 September 2019,
had the funds been sold prior to the transfer but as close to the transfer date as was
required under Openworks service levels. This has been agreed as the day after the 
platform received an instruction to transfer. 
Compare this to the actual value of Mr Ds SIPP portfolio on the date of the transfer.
If there is a loss, Openwork should apply the percentage of that loss to the funds
represented, as at the date of any final decision, by the transfer on
30 September 2019. Openwork should pay any difference between the actual value
of those funds and their notional value, as calculated above, into Mr D's pension plan
to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Openwork is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension plan, it should
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr D is assumed, as in this case, to be a basic rate taxpayer at the
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, as I assume is
the case here, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Openwork has offered Mr D a total of £400 for the delay in answering his complaint and for
the disruption to his retirement planning. I think Mr D would have been concerned about his
retirement provision during this process as he was worried about losing a significant amount
of it because of the errors in buying and selling his funds.
So I think the amount offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
 and broadly in line with what I would have proposed.
Mr D requested a refund of the adviser charges he would have incurred when he switched to
a new platform in September 2019. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that it was
Openwork that terminated their arrangement and led to Mr D transferring elsewhere. From
the evidence Ive been presented with, it was Mr D who decided to move to another platform,
and I dont think that Openworks actions here were so unacceptable as to warrant it being
responsible for Mr Ds decision to transfer or for any of the costs involved. So I dont think
Openwork should have to refund any of Mr Ds new adviser or platform set up costs.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Openwork Limited. Openwork Limited should pay the amount as calculated from the redress formula set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman