DRN-1371940
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that esure Insurance Limited declined a claim under his motor legal 
protection insurance. 
What happened
Mr K has car insurance with esure. When he bought the policy he chose to add motor legal 
protection to his cover. This means esure will, in certain circumstances, pay for legal 
assistance Mr K might need to recover costs arising from an accident that wasn't his fault.
When he bought his policy in 2019, Mr K declared a non-fault accident in 2016. He says he 
was told this increased his premium significantly.
So Mr K made a claim on his motor legal protection cover. Essentially, he wants legal 
assistance to recover the cost of his increased premiums - for as long as he has to declare 
the non-fault accident - from the insurer of the third party involved in the accident in 2016.
Mr K's claim was declined by esure. They said there was no reasonable prospect of Mr K 
succeeding in forcing the third party insurer to cover his additional insurance costs. They 
pointed out an exclusion in the policy which says they won't cover legal costs in those 
circumstances. 
Mr K complained to esure. They didn't change their position, but as a gesture of goodwill,  
they did refund the £31 Mr K had paid to add motor legal protection to his policy. 
Mr K wasn't happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didn't think esure had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr K's frustration about his insurance premium going up because of an 
accident that wasn't his fault. As esure explained to Mr K, insurers will make their own 
assessment of the risk involved in providing cover and this will affect the price. 
It may seem unfair, but some insurers will regard a customer as a higher risk - and charge a 
higher premium - if they've been involved in an accident and/or made a claim before, even 
when this wasn't their fault. They're entitled to do that in assessing the risk in providing 
cover. Mr K has told us though that this isn't the crux of his complaint. He understands the way 
insurance pricing works. What he wants to do is recover the extra cost of insurance to him 
from the insurer of the third party who caused the accident. 
His complaint is that esure won't cover the legal costs of him pursuing the third party insurer 
to recover his additional insurance costs.
There's no dispute here about the fact that Mr K's policy contains an exclusion which says 
esure will not cover a customer's legal costs where, "...there are no reasonable prospects of 
the claim succeeding or a more advantageous outcome being obtained."   
And esure declined Mr K's claim on that basis. They said there was no reasonable prospect 
of Mr K succeeding in recovering his additional insurance costs from the third party's insurer.
Given the way the insurance industry currently operates, it's not usual for insurers and/or 
their customers to seek to recover additional premium costs from third party insurers in the 
way Mr K is suggesting. 
There's an argument the industry should operate that way, although there might be very real 
difficulties in establishing whether additional premium costs were necessary in any given 
case or simply a result of the customer's choices and preferences. 
However, it's not for me to enter into that debate here. I have to look at whether it was fair 
and reasonable in this particular case for esure to decline Mr K's claim on the basis that the 
relevant exclusion applies.
I'm satisfied that was fair and reasonable, given the knowledge and expertise esure have 
about the way the industry operates at present. In my view, that would enable them to 
properly assess the likelihood of Mr K's proposed action being successful. And I can't say 
they would need any further information and/or legal advice to make that assessment. 
So, I'm not going to uphold Mr K's complaint. I'm satisfied esure have done nothing wrong in 
relying on the exclusion to decline Mr K's claim. And I think they've been fair and reasonable 
in refunding the cost of Mr K's motor legal protection. 
We've given Mr K the contact details for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). As the 
regulator, the FCA can consider Mr K's argument that the insurance industry should operate 
in a different way. Our focus is solely on whether esure treated Mr K fairly and reasonably in 
the particular circumstances relating to his claim. And I'm satisfied they have.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr K's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman