DRN-1105453
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, recorded arrangement 
to pay markers on his credit file rather than a default which wouldve dropped off in six 
years.
What happened
Mr R had a credit card with Barclaycard. In 2012  2013, he experienced a period of 
financial difficulties. He came to a payment arrangement with Barclaycard and sought the 
help of a debt management company. He recalls wanting to allow his debts to default but 
was advised that making small repayments to clear them over a longer period of time would 
be better. 
Through this time Barclaycard recorded arrangement to pay markers on Mr Rs credit file. 
Mr R repaid the balance he owed Barclaycard by 2016. 
But in 2018 Mr R became aware of these markers. He felt that he had never agreed to these 
and was told that they should only be recorded for a period of up to six months. He thought 
that they had put him in a worse position than he wouldve been in if his account had 
defaulted when he first contacted Barclaycard about his financial difficulties, as this wouldve 
dropped from his credit history six years after it had been applied. Instead, his arrangement 
to pay markers were recorded up to the date he repaid the debt in 2016, and so would 
remain on his credit history until 2022.
He complained to Barclaycard in early 2019 and received a phone call from one of its 
complaint handlers who agreed that the markers were applied unfairly and so said they 
would amend his credit record and replace them with a default backdated to March 2013. 
But Mr R contacted Barclaycard again a few months later, when he saw that his credit file 
hadnt been updated. Barclaycard then said it wouldnt be changing what it had recorded, as 
the arrangement to pay markers were an accurate reflection of the situation at the time. It 
said that the previous complaints handler hadnt been authorised to agree the changes they 
did. Barclaycard offered to pay Mr R £60 for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused by this.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Barclaycard had agreed to Mr Rs arrangement plan; gradually reduced the interest 
rate applying to his account and then suspended all interest and charges from being applied. 
The investigator felt that the arrangement to pay markers were a reflection of Mr Rs 
payment history, so he didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong by reporting it this 
way. 
The investigator also said he didnt think these markers were as detrimental to a credit 
record as a default, as it would show other lenders that Mr R was working with Barclaycard 
to repay his debt. He said there were a number of factors that a prospective lender may take into account when considering an application for credit, and he could see that Mr R had 
been able to take out credit while the arrangement to pay markers were on his file. He didnt 
think that Barclaycard was completely responsible for any issues Mr R had experienced in 
taking out credit at an affordable rate.
The investigator said Barclaycard had accepted that it gave Mr R incorrect information when 
it originally said it would amend his credit file, and he thought the £60 it had offered was fair 
compensation for this.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. He said, in summary, that at the time hed 
defaulted on his debts with several lenders, which wouldnt show on his current credit file as 
they wouldve been removed. He had assumed that his account with Barclaycard had also 
defaulted as he was failing to keep up with his contractual repayments. He recognised that a 
default wouldnt take away his obligation to repay his debts so did all he could to try and 
repay them. 
He said his primary concern was that he believed Barclaycard should have placed a default 
on his account at the time, as he had defaulted on his credit agreement with Barclaycard by 
failing to meet the contractual repayments. Mr R didnt believe it was appropriate or relevant 
to compare the arrangement to pay markers with a default as the default would no longer be 
showing on his credit file and the markers would remain on it for six years after the last 
reporting, which is more than nine years since he believed he had defaulted.
He also didnt think the £60 offered was fair as he said Barclaycard hadnt told him it 
wouldnt be amending his credit file as it had previously said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I see it, Mr Rs complaint is about two main issues; the arrangement to pay markers and 
the service he received from Barclaycard in relation to his complaint.
Arrangement to Pay markers
The Information Commissioners Office guidance from the time says that information reported 
on a persons credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up-to-date. It also 
says that where a debt management programme has been accepted by a lender, this should 
be reflected in the information recorded with credit reference agencies and that a default 
would not normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels that Barclaycard shouldve registered a default when he began 
experiencing problems in making his payments; or when he missed some payments that 
were due under his arrangement with Barclaycard. But this wasnt something it was required 
to do, when the guidance indicates situations where a lender may register a default.
And I can see that Barclaycard did send Mr R a default notice in January 2014. Through this 
time it was corresponding with the debt management company and Mr R about the 
arrangement and the payments that had been missed. And Mr Rs payments began again in 
February 2014 which meant that the default wasnt registered. 
So although I appreciate what Mr R has said about not having sight of his credit file through 
the period of his financial difficulties, I think this default notice would reasonably have alerted 
him that Barclaycard hadnt registered a default by that stage. And if he felt this wasnt right, particularly if he had other debts where defaults were being registered, then this is 
something he couldve raised with either Barclaycard or his debt management company at 
the time.
While I appreciate that with hindsight Mr R may now feel that Barclaycard registering a 
default on his account wouldve a better option for him because it would now have stopped 
appearing on his credit record; I think that the information that Barclaycard did record  that 
he had an agreed arrangement to pay  did fairly and accurately reflect his management of 
his credit card account. I say this because he remained actively engaged with Barclaycard 
throughout. Their banking relationship hadnt broken down.
And I think its only right that I say that I acknowledge Mr Rs efforts in repaying the debt to 
Barclaycard. He repaid what he owed. Thats the right thing to do.
How other lenders may have agreed or decided to report their arrangements with Mr R is a 
matter for them; this doesnt necessarily mean that Barclaycard should therefore act in the 
same way. 
Service
Barclaycard has apologised that Mr R was wrongly told the arrangement to pay markers 
would be removed, when the handler agreeing this didnt have the authority to do so. This 
will have given Mr R the expectation that his complaint had been resolved as he wanted; and 
that his credit file would be amended so that a backdated default would be registered. 
And Barclaycard didnt then let Mr R know that it wouldnt be making these changes. It 
wasnt until he complained again that his credit record hadnt changed, that it told him it 
wasnt going to be doing what it previously said it would.
To recognise the upset and confusion this caused Mr R, Barclaycard has offered to pay him 
£60. Overall, I think that this, along with its apology, represents a reasonable resolution for 
his loss of expectation, when Barclaycards representative had agreed to something they 
didnt have the authority to do and the reporting was a true reflection of how Mr R had 
maintained his credit agreement with Barclaycard.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, should pay Mr R £60 as 
it has already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman