DRN-4344464
The complaint
Mr O complains British Gas Insurance Limited handled his boiler breakdown claim poorly.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr Os boiler broke down. He claimed against his British Gas boiler and 
controls breakdown insurance policy.  The claim involved four visits, and various attempts at 
repair, by British Gas engineers. Eventually the boiler was condemned and Mr O paid for a 
replacement. 
Mr Os unhappy with the service he received. He feels the claim should only have required 
two engineer visits rather than four. He says the matter has caused him inconvenience  
including spending around seven hours dealing with the claim and his complaint. Hes 
particularly concerned that British Gas engineer twice declared his boiler safe to use when it 
was actually very dangerous. Hes also upset that an engineer was rude to him. To put 
things right he said he would like British Gas to acknowledge, and apologise for, its mistakes 
and their impact on him.  
Mr O has complained to British Gas. It offered him £150 compensation to recognise some 
poor service it had provided. He wasnt satisfied with that so came to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded by British Gas explanation that the reason for multiple 
repairs was the boiler experiencing several unrelated problems. She felt being given 
misleading information about how long he would need to wait for repairs would be upsetting 
for him. She added he had experienced additional inconvenience as he had to try to 
rearrange a further inspection after an engineer failed to repair the boiler. So the Investigator 
recommended the compensation be increased to a total of £250 to recognise the impact of 
British Gas mistakes on Mr O. 
British Gas didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. It 
didnt accept it had misdiagnosed the fault with the boiler  or that it was ever dangerous. It 
said instead, due to the age of the boiler, there were multiple problems with it.
I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it 
in below.  In it I explained why I didnt intend to require British Gas to pay any additional 
compensation. I invited it and Mr O to provide any further information for me to consider 
before issuing a final decision. Both replied to say they had nothing further for me.  
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr O and British Gas have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
According to British Gas its common for older boilers to experience unrelated faults 
after a component is replaced. It estimates Mr Os was at least 17 years old. Its 
explained that at each visit a separate repair was made. Its position is that is why so 
many visits were required, rather than due to mistakes by its engineers. 
British Gas site visit notes and its explanations give some support to unrelated 
repairs being made for different issues with the boiler. Im persuaded that, mainly, the 
follow up visits werent avoidable  or resulting from its failure to accurately diagnose 
problems.
However, I cant say that with much confidence for one aspect  an insulation panel 
that had fallen onto the boilers burners. That wasnt spotted by the first engineer. But 
I accept its possible it was a problem that only developed after his visit  so 
something he couldnt have been aware of. 
This issue left the property without heating for four days until various ordered parts 
were fitted. However, it seems likely that outcome would have been the same had 
the problem been identified at the initial engineer visit  as either way parts would 
need to be ordered and fitted. 
My understanding of events is that Mr O had an old boiler that ultimately required 
replacement. British Gas made various attempts to repair it. One of those attempts 
may have involved an inadequate inspection or diagnosis. And eventually it was 
accepted that the boiler couldnt be efficiently repaired, so a replacement was 
agreed.  
In conclusion I accept there may have been one example of poor assessment by one 
of British Gas engineers. That may have resulted in Mr O operating an unsafe boiler 
for a few hours (British Gas denies this). British Gas did return to reinspect the boiler 
in reasonable time after Mr O raised concern. Having considered Mr Os account I 
accept one of the engineers was dismissive of his concern and that he was given 
misleading information about how long until one of its engineers would be available 
for a follow up visit.  
Whilst I accept British Gas did get some things wrong, and that these did cause Mr O 
some unnecessary distress and inconvenience, Im not persuaded the impact was 
enough to justify any additional compensation  or for me to require British Gas to 
provide any further apology. The £150 offered already seems a fair amount to me. So 
I dont intend to award any additional compensation or require it to do anything 
differently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O or British Gas provided any further information or comments. So I dont see 
any reason to change from the position set out in my provisional decision. That means Im 
not awarding any additional compensation or requiring British Gas to do anything differently. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr O any 
additional compensation or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman