DRN-4286739
The complaint
Mr C says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) informed him of incorrect transfer 
values for his personal pension over a period of years. He says this impacted on decisions 
he made about funding his income in retirement.
Mr C is represented by his independent financial adviser (IFA).
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension with Aviva which effectively entitled him to take 100% of the 
benefits from the plan as tax-free cash (TFC). His money was invested in a with-profits fund. 
The normal retirement date (NRD) for his policy was when he reached 65, in July 2021. At 
this point his funds were moved into cash. The value of his fund was guaranteed not to fall 
below that achieved at his NRD.
Between January 2019 and March 2021 Mr C and his IFA were notified of the transfer value 
for his personal pension on multiple occasions. At its height, in August 2020 it was said to be 
valued at £35,878. But by the time Aviva issued a quote in March 2021 this had fallen to 
£29,853.
Mr C raised a complaint with Aviva about the falling value of his personal pension. On 8 April 
2021 it responded in the following terms:
Although the values quoted between 28 January 2019 and 30 September 2020 increased, 
the value we quoted on 7 March 2021 decreased because the final bonus is currently lower 
than it was in 2019 and 2020. Any final bonus due when you take your benefits could be 
higher or lower than it was in March 2021.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the response he received and sought more information about what 
had happened. Aviva responded on 22 July 2021. This time it provided an explanation about 
how his premiums had been used to purchase funds. It went on to say:
Your policy is invested in the Providential Mutual With-Profit fund. The initial premiums you 
paid purchased a lower rate fund, with premiums paid after the initial period purchasing a 
higher rate fund. The higher rate fund increases by a guaranteed interest rate of 3.25% per 
annum. Where a regular bonus rate is declared, the bonuses are added to both the lower 
rate fund and the higher rate fund. Both funds and the accrued bonuses form the guaranteed 
minimum amount that would be paid on retirement.
On retirement, we may also add a final bonus. The final bonus is a balancing item that aims 
to pay the difference between the guaranteed benefits and the asset share subject to 
smoothing. For clarity, the asset share is the premiums paid rolled up with investment 
returns and taking charges and expenses into account. Smoothing is a feature of With-
Profits which aims to restrict pay-out movements from one year to the next. Essentially, this 
enables returns from good years to subsidise years where returns are poor.
The transfer value calculation aims to pay asset share and uses a different calculation but 
should tend towards the maturity value in the last year.
Unfortunately for your policy it seems the transfer value was higher last year and hasnt 
smoothed into the maturity value as we would like. This is due to the different way the value 
is calculated from a maturity value.
To ensure you are receiving a fair value at maturity we have checked your maturity value 
against the asset share we hold for this policy and are satisfied that the current value is 
appropriate.
Please accept my apologies that last years value was too high.
Aviva had still not got to grips with Mr Cs concerns. So, his IFA wrote to it on 15 September 
2021. He noted that it wasnt simply that it had provided an incorrect pension transfer 
valuation in 2020, but the problem with its methodology seemed to have been flawed for 
some years. He summarised his concern in the following terms:
That information received, will affect the decision a client makes on deciding whether or not 
to retain a policy, to transfer, or to draw benefits, which your previous response had failed to 
recognise. This being the case, your errors have led to Mr C being substantially 
disadvantaged as his final pension value has now fallen by 15%. This has not been 
acknowledged in your response and needs to be addressed by Aviva through some 
compensatory process.
Aviva responded to Mr Cs IFA on 22 October 2021. This time it had referred his complaint to 
its actuarial department, which provided the following input:
Regretfully, the method used to calculate the transfer values has been overvaluing this 
policy type. We usually aim for the transfer value to tend towards the retirement value, but 
unfortunately this has not been the case. The method used to calculate transfer values is 
currently being reviewed to ensure transfer values better reflect the investment returns of the 
policies and are consistent with retirement values. However, this does not resolve the issue 
of higher transfer values being provided in past years and for this we are deeply apologetic.
It is important to note that the flaw in the system is that your quoted transfer values were too 
high, so with corrected methodology would reduce values in the future. The corrected 
method will simply reduce the transfer value so that it moves smoothly towards the maturity 
value, which is dictated by the asset share.
Please accept our apologies but we are unable to compensate the policyholder as, having 
checked their maturity value against the asset share for their policy, we can confirm the 
retirement value provides a fair return on the premiums given the investment returns of the 
fund over the duration of the policy.
Aviva apologised for what had happened, acknowledging it had made a mistake. It said:
Whilst I realise you feel our errors have led to Mr C being disadvantaged as his final 
pension value has fallen by 15%, this is not the case. The actual value weve quoted is 
correct, whereas previously quoted values were incorrect. These were not actual values and 
they were not guaranteed.
Mr C remained dissatisfied with Avivas position. His IFA brought his complaint to this 
Service on 19 April 2022, in the following terms:
Mr C has a pension plan with Aviva, that was invested in a With Profits fund. Over a period 
of 2-3 yearsAviva has admitted that it made a number of mistakes in providing inflated 
valuations to the pension during this timeframe, see final response letter attached, but has 
taken no further action.
Mr C feels that different decisions would have been made with the pension had correct 
values been provided. The pension is available as 100% TFC and will pay out a lump sum 
death benefit; beneficiary drawdown for example is not available. Given Mr Cs age and life expectancy the pension could have been drawn without incurring tax, invested in his non-
pension portfolio and produced a better investment return. It's not the investment return from 
Aviva that is the issue, it is the ongoing correspondence quoting incorrect and inflated fund 
values that led to a decision by Mr C to retain the pension. Had correct values been 
provided, different decisions could have been considered.
Mr Cs IFA noted the poor returns on his fund between 2017 when it was valued at £29,125 
and the final transfer value in 2021. Had this low return been understood earlier, then it 
wouldve advised him to take a different course of action. Specifically, instead of taking 
income from his general investment fund, where he enjoyed high rates of return, hed have 
advised Mr C to utilise his TFC from the Aviva pension first.
An Investigator considered Mr Cs case and upheld it. She thought hed suffered a loss of 
expectation as a result of Avivas mistake in how it calculated the transfer value of his 
pension. She thought it should pay him £200 in recognition of this. But after considering 
further evidence from the IFA including suitability reports it provided him with in June 2020 
and July 2021, she didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show hed have acted 
differently had he been provided with more accurate information.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision at the end of June 2023 and requested 
further information from both parties to assist my final deliberations. Both parties have 
provided further submissions, which Ive considered carefully in arriving at my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Aviva 
for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Aviva. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Theres no dispute about what went wrong here. Aviva has apologised for providing Mr C 
with incorrect valuations for his pension policy over an extended period of time. It has 
acknowledged a flaw in its methodology, which presumably applies to other customers in a 
similar position to Mr C. A systemic issue has been identified, although I need to focus here 
on the individual case and circumstances.
Mr C has confirmed that his representative started providing advice to him about his Aviva 
pension from around 2015. His Aviva pension benefits were drawn shortly after maturity of 
the policy as he reached 65 in July 2021.
At the heart of this complaint is what Mr C wouldve done had he been provided with correct 
information about the value of his Aviva personal pension in prior years. In responding to the 
Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Cs representative said:
In our view, the key aspects that have been misunderstood are as follows:
-[Mr and Mrs C] began to draw income from January 2021 of £3,000pm from their 
portfolio. Income had ceased in 2020 because of the Covid pandemic; however, prior 
to Covid [they] had withdrawn [sentence ends].
-At that time, the portfolio had provided investment returns of 46.10% over 5 years. In 
the same period, the Aviva pension value had increased from £29,125 to £35,878, 
some 23.1%. This meant the pension was growing ahead of normal retirement date 
and because of the favourable IHT position for pensions, was kept in place. 
However, the pension value was subsequently recalculated to £30,175.
-As youve acknowledged, at [Mr Cs] normal retirement age, the pension was moved 
into a Cash fund. It had a 1% AMC and therefore the fund would be guaranteed to 
lose value. It was at that point the decision was made to realise the value. It was 
100% tax free and there was no prospect for further growth.
-This action demonstrates that if the pension values provided by Aviva had been 
correct, a different course of action would have been taken earlier. If it had been 
known that the value of £29,125 in 2017 had grown to £30,175, it would have been 
realised much earlier, with less income being withdrawn from their portfolio.
-Youve also highlighted that in a report Ive stated that typically, pensions are 
retained because of the IHT position when compared to cash and GIA. This is 
because, typically, when wider investment markets are rising so are pension values. 
In this instance, we only discovered the situation was not typical after the event.
Ive reviewed the suitability letters Mr Cs IFA produced for him and his wife in June 2020 
and July 2021. I think the Investigator was right to highlight the significance of its 
recommendation from the latter which was made in the following terms:
We discussed the option of purchasing an annuity with your Aviva pension fund. You 
advised that you did not want to secure an annuity and that your preference is to receive 
your pension benefit as a cash lump sum. You intend to utilise the money to put towards 
purchasing a holiday home in the future.
You are aware that by accessing your pension fund the funds will be brought into your 
estate for inheritance tax purposes immediately on crystallisation. Currently, the Aviva 
pension is excluded from IHT. However, death benefits are usually payable as a lump sum, 
meaning that if you were to pass away prior to [Mrs C], the funds would still form part of [her] estate. You would like to maximise the opportunity for drawing your pension tax free with the 
intention of using the monies to help to fund the purchase of a holiday home. This means 
that you can hold the funds in cash, but without the ongoing fees that would apply to the 
Deposit Fund, which has an Annual Management Charge of 1%.
I think the argument being made by Mr Cs representative isnt about how he was planning to 
use the cash from his Aviva pension in 2021, but that had he realised its real value earlier, 
hed have taken the benefits before his NRD and used these to supplement his income, 
instead of drawing income from his general investment account.
This argument relied on a number of assumptions, which I invited both parties to provide 
further evidence about.
Mr C has provided information about the value of his Aviva plan between 2009 and 2021. 
This shows it wasnt static. It remained invested up until his 65th birthday. Mr C said of its 
performance:
The data below shows the performance of the pension since Aviva became the pension 
provider. It is clear that there has been steady growth, with some uctuations and of course, 
valuations are dependent on the day / date they are given.
Note that there were high increases in the transfer value in 2013, 2015, 2017, and then 
nally in 2019. These large increases occurred regularly and are important because they 
provide evidence that a consistent method of transfer valuation was being applied.
This performance provided me and BD with reassurance that we were making the best 
decision to leave it invested.
Aviva has acknowledged its fund values reported to Mr C over time were inflated. So the 
base value was too high. But as the data hes supplied shows, his pension fund was 
benefitting from investment growth (positive and negative) up until his NRD.
Mr Cs representative told this Service his general investment portfolio had provided a return 
of 46% over 5 years. Over the same period his Aviva pension had grown around 23%:
This meant the pension was growing ahead of normal retirement date and because of the 
favourable IHT position for pensions, was kept in place
In bringing Mr Cs case, his representative said if it had known the value of his Aviva pension 
in 2017 of £29,125 would only have grown to £30,175, it wouldve been realised much 
earlier, with less income being withdrawn from [Mr and Mrs Cs] general investment portfolio. 
Im not persuaded by this argument which is about investment performance and relies on 
hindsight. I dont find it telling in the context of Mr Cs case.
I asked Aviva to provide me with a re-worked run of what the maturity valuations for Mr Cs 
pension wouldve been over the period in question, it said:
The maturity value is made up of the guaranteed benefits already purchased plus any final 
bonus declared at the date of maturity. The aim is that the maturity value should be a fair 
reflection of the fund performance over the term of the policy.
We are unable to provide another set of historic transfer values as we only have the method 
that was in use at the date the values were originally provided.
As mentioned in our previous response the transfer value was overpaying relative to the 
maturity value, however this was because the methods were mis-alignedBased on the evidence available, Mr C and his representative havent satisfied me that had 
Aviva provided more aligned transfer and maturity valuations, this wouldve had a material 
effect on his decision making. I say this because Ive concluded its more likely than not what 
mattered most to him was that his Aviva pension was growing; that it was shielded from IHT 
provisions; and that it provided an opportunity to maximise the tax-free cash he could 
receive.
What is clear is that Aviva is responsible for several failings. It accepts it provided Mr C with 
misleading valuations for his pension policy over a period of years. This has led to a loss of 
expectation.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Cs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Avivas acts and omissions were greater than just a minor inconvenience 
or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Aviva failed to get to grips with Mr Cs complaint, initially providing him with misleading or 
partial answers. And even in its last response it couldve provided better information to give 
him some assurance.
In recognition of the trouble and upset its failings have caused Mr C, I require Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited to pay him £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint, but not to the extent 
hed like. I now require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman