DRN-2038917
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wasnt clear enough about the criteria surrounding 
interest payments on his account. 
What happened
Mr L has a Club Lloyds account. A feature of this account is that interest is paid on balances 
up to £5,000 if certain criteria are met. When Mr L selected the account, Lloyds website said 
he just needed to pay out two different direct debits from his account each month. 
After receiving interest initially, Mr L called Lloyds in January 2020 to question why he wasnt 
being paid interest for the month of December 2019. Lloyds said that although Mr L had 
made multiple payments by direct debit, they were all to one originator under one mandate. 
And to meet the criteria two different direct debit mandates needed to have been paid from 
the account during the calendar month. 
Mr L complained to Lloyds as he didnt think this was clear from the wording on its website. 
He felt he would have complied with the criteria if it had been clearer, so he considered that 
hed lost out on interest payments due to Lloyds error. He asked Lloyds to pay him the 
interest hed missed out on and compensation for the time hed spent resolving the issue.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it would take on the feedback regarding its website 
but that the terms and conditions of the account were clear and had been correctly applied. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld either and considered that Mr L 
ought to have realised from the reference to different direct debits on the website that he 
wasnt complying with the criteria. Ive been asked to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive only considered Lloyds handling of Mr Ls account in this 
decision. Mr L has said the same issue happened to his wife. But as she has her own 
account shell need to complain about that separately. 
Mr Ls relationship with Lloyds is ultimately governed by the terms and conditions of his 
account. Those terms and conditions say:
We will pay interest on a credit balance in your account for that billing period as long 
as you have a minimum of two different direct debit mandates paid from your account 
during the calendar month.
In my view, this is clear and unambiguous. Mr Ls statements show that in the months he 
didnt receive interest payments, he only made payments under one direct debit mandate. 
Therefore, contractually speaking, Mr L didnt qualify for interest payments in those months.
The wording on Lloyds website said, just pay out two different direct debits each month. 
There was a hyperlink included just below which led to a list of frequently asked questions. 
The answers to those questions said account holders needed to pay at least two separate 
direct debits each calendar month in order to earn the advertised interest. 
In the first two months that the account was live, Mr L made payments under two direct debit 
mandates and was therefore paid interest. In several of the months that followed however he 
made multiple transactions by direct debit, but all under one mandate to the same originator.
Mr L says he thought that this would be considered paying out two different direct debits, 
because the website didnt stipulate that they needed to be paid to two different originators. 
But in practice, Mr L just made a number of transactions through an online payment system 
using a direct debit mandate hed set up with the company that operated it in October 2019. 
Its evident from Lloyds system notes and how the transactions appear in Mr Ls statement 
that only one direct debit mandate exists between him and that company. 
Although these transactions are itemised individually in Mr Ls statements, I dont think they 
can be held to be different direct debits. The direct debit itself was the mandate Mr L gave 
the company that operated the online payment system to claim moneys from his account. 
Whilst Mr L may have paid varying amounts under that direct debit each month, I dont think 
thats the same as him paying out two different or separate direct debits. 
Im pleased to see that Lloyds has said it will take on Mr Ls feedback but taking all of the 
above into account Im not satisfied its responsible for his understanding that hed meet the 
criteria by making different payments to the same originator under one direct debit mandate. 
Mr L has also complained that he spent a long time trying to sort things out. But I can see 
that Lloyds clarified the criteria when Mr L queried it in January 2020. It sent him a final 
response letter a few days later, which it later resent when Mr L said he hadnt received it. 
And it appears Mr L has since set up further direct debit mandates and is receiving interest 
payments as per the terms and conditions. Considering Lloyds handling of the matter in the 
round I dont think it needs to compensate Mr L. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 September 2020.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman