DRN-3586599
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) charged multiple 
international fees to her account while she was overseas during the global pandemic.    
What happened
Miss E has held a Nationwide FlexAccount since September 2018
During late 2020, Miss E was visiting overseas for a period. She was scheduled to return to 
the UK on a flight in December 2020. Due to the impact of the global pandemic, her flight 
was cancelled. This meant she had to remain overseas for an unexpected and prolonged 
period.
During her time overseas, Miss E used her FlexAccount to make cash withdrawals and 
payments. Each time she did that, Nationwide passed charges to her account. Miss E wasnt 
happy that Nationwide had continued to charge her for using her account while overseas 
due to the pandemic. So, upon her return to the UK, she contacted them. 
Miss E says she spoke to Nationwides Coronavirus relief team who told her they had no 
way to reimburse members who were financially impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. So, 
she decided to complain
Nationwide responded in writing to Miss Es complaint in January 2022. They said the 
charges theyd applied were as per the terms and conditions of the account. They 
reminded Miss E of those charges and provided a link to the relevant part of their website. 
Nationwide said that the only account they offered with no international fees is their FlexPlus 
account which costs £13.00 each month. They invited her to apply if she was interested. 
Nationwide thought theyd acted correctly and didnt uphold Miss Es complaint.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Miss E referred her complaint to this service. Having 
looked at all the information and evidence, our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong.
Miss E didnt agree with our investigator. She said our investigators findings were based 
upon inaccurate information and was unfair for clients seeking remedy from financial 
institutions during the global pandemic.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Es complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its generally accepted that the impact of the global pandemic has been far reaching. 
Because of this, various initiatives and guidance were introduced by both the UK 
Government and the various regulatory bodies from early 2020 onwards in an attempt to 
mitigate the effects of that impact on consumers. 
The FCA issued various Covid-19 guidance updates between March 2020 and September 
2021 relating specifically to UK regulated financial institutions. Their guidance was focussed 
upon specific and distinct areas of support and included mortgages, consumer credit and 
insurance. Ive considered the details of these guidelines within the context Miss Es 
situation. Having done so, Im unable to find any specific guidance that would apply to Miss 
Es circumstances here.
From what Miss E has told this service, fees and charges were levied by Nationwide for 
transactions she undertook while overseas. Nationwide have said that when Miss E opened 
her FlexAccount, she was provided with details of their terms and conditions, together with 
details of charges that apply to her account. Ive found that these are also easy to find on 
Nationwides website. Having reviewed them, I believe they make it clear that any 
transaction involving foreign currency either within or outside of the UK will be subject to a 
charge. This is commonplace with most UK banks and financial institutions. Given the 
associated costs involved with processing foreign currency transactions, I dont consider 
charges for this service to be unreasonable.
Having reviewed copies of Miss Es account statements, it appears Nationwides charges 
complied with their terms and conditions together with their published charging tariff. So, I 
cant reasonably say that those charges were wrongly applied.
I then considered whether Nationwide shouldve done anything differently, given Miss Es 
circumstances. Its clearly very unfortunate that Miss E became stranded overseas as a 
consequence of the global pandemic effects. I can appreciate how this wouldve been a very 
worrying and distressing time for her and her family. However, I cant reasonably hold 
Nationwide responsible for her situation. They wouldnt have had any control over that.
As Ive already concluded above, the FCAs Covid-19 guidance makes no provision for such 
situations. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that financial institutions were advised to 
suspend charges in such cases. So, any concession would ultimately be a business decision 
for Nationwide here. And because of that, it wouldnt be something that this service would be 
able to influence or insist upon.
I appreciate that Miss E will be very disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Nationwide 
did anything wrong here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman