DRN-2141527
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that the advice they received from ReAssure Limited in 1991 to 
invest £20 per month into the Maximum Investment and Protection Plan (MIPP), was 
unsuitable.
Mrs and Mr R are represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
Mrs and Mr R took out a MIPP in mid-1991 with an initial premium of £20 per month. It 
matured in August 2016. Mr and Mrs R received over £14,800 when the plan matured.
Mrs and Mr Rs representative complained to ReAssure about the suitability of the advice 
they had received. It said it didnt think Mrs and Mr R should have been advised to take out a 
unit linked endowment, over a 25 year term, as the level of investment risk was too high for 
their stated attitude to risk.
ReAssure didn't uphold the complaint. It said it felt the advice it gave was suitable. It noted 
that in 1999 it had contacted Mrs and Mr R about their MIPP as part of a business review. 
Following this review, it said:
it was concluded that you would have been more comfortable investing over a 10 year 
period. As a result, you were appropriately redressed; however I note that following this 
review, you chose to retain the policy for the full 25 years.
It also noted that Mrs and Mr R had received annual statements, setting out the value of their 
plan with a projection of the amount they could expect to receive at maturity. 
Mrs and Mr R werent satisfied with ReAssures response and their representative brought 
their complaint this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that, based 
on the limited information available from the time the MIPP was set up, he thought the 
premiums had been affordable and the plan had met Mrs and Mr Rs objective of a regular 
savings plan with the added benefit of joint life cover. 
He noted that Mrs and Mr Rs attitude to risk was assessed as three out of seven. ReAssure 
said this corresponded to a medium attitide to risk. Our investigator said he thought the 
funds selected were in-line with a medium attitude to risk.
He also noted that in 1999, following a review by ReAssure the plan was, in effect, converted 
to a ten year plan by adding additional units. He said he didnt think a 10 year regular 
savings plan was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr R. He also explained that a ten year term was 
the minimum term permitted to ensure that the plan was qualifying for tax purposes.
In relation to the life cover offered by the plan, he said it appeared that at the time they took 
out the plan Mrs and Mr R had a child and a mortgage. In view of this  and in the absence 
of anything to show that Mrs and Mr R had other life cover in place - he said he couldnt 
safely conclude that the life cover provided by the plan was unnecessary.
He also noted that ReAssure hadn't raised any objections to this service investigating Mrs 
and Mr Rs complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Rs representative didnt accept our investigators view. It said:
There is actually no evidence to show the clients were experienced investors and the fact is 
their recorded risk profile was 3 on a scale of to 1 to 10. Even if the clients had some 
experience the investment funds recommended are medium to high risk which makes the 
advice unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information available, I dont think Mrs and Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I havent seen anything that shows, or suggests that the premiums were not affordable for 
Mrs and Mr R. In particular, I note that they maintained the premiums throughout the term of 
the plan. I also note that they chose to continue with the plan for the full 25 years despite the 
term being reduced to ten years in 1999. 
Likewise, I must take into account that Mrs and Mr R received annual statements showing 
how their plan was performing. If they were unhappy with the fluctuations in the value of their 
plan or felt that the funds were too high risk for their attitude to investment risk, I would have 
expected them to have raised this with ReAssure at the time. 
I note that Mrs and Mr Rs representative has said that in 1991 their attitude to investment 
risk was assessed as 3 on a scale of 1 to 10. On this basis it says it feels the funds 
recommended were not suitable for Mrs and Mr R. 
But, from information I have seen and from the information ReAssure has provided, it 
appears that Mrs and Mr Rs attitude to risk was recorded as 3 out of 7  not 3 out of 10. 
ReAssure has told this service that a 3 out of 7 attitude to risk on its risk rating scale 
corresponded to a medium attitude to risk. I am satisfied that the mix of funds chosen when 
the plan was set up in 1991, the Managed, International, Perpetual and Foreign & Colonial 
funds were in line with a medium attitude to investment risk. 
As this is the case, I dont think the funds recommended were unsuitable for Mrs and Mr R. I 
am satisfied that they were able to take the investment risk involved and I dont think the 
advice they received in 1991 was unsuitable.My final decision
My decision is, that for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman