DRN-2780003
The complaint
Mr J complains that he cant access his online account with Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One).
What happened
Mr J has an account with Capital One. In 2018, he had problems logging into his online 
account and says this was due to changes Capital One made to its software. He complained 
to Capital One at the time and it suggested that he try using a different web browser. He did 
so and was able to access his account.
But Mr J says hes now having issues again and cant log into his account using either his 
preferred browser or the one recommended by Capital One. He raised a new complaint, but 
it wasnt upheld as Capital One said it couldnt identify any issues from its side which would 
prevent Mr J from logging in. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
says he has used his computer in the past to successfully log into his account. He says he 
hasnt changed anything on his computer so the problem cant be at his end. Whereas 
Capital One has changed its security software and he says thats the problem.
Mr J says that Capital Ones new software prevents him from using the browser of his 
choice. He says that Capital One is effectively requiring him to use a particular browser or 
newer computer in order to log into his account. He says its preventing him from accessing 
his online account. He says that Capital One had told him it would fix things so that he could 
access his account using the browser of his choice, but that still hasnt happened.
Capital One says it has checked its error logs to see if other customers are having the same 
problem. But it says it hasnt identified any other cases with the same issue. It says it has 
also checked for any reports of incidents on the specific days that Mr J had problems but 
found no evidence of a wider issue on those days. Capital One says that the absence of any 
other issues suggests the problem is with Mr Js software as it hasnt identified any issues 
with its own system. It says that issues tend to arise if customers are using older software or 
less popular browsers. As it hasnt identified any errors from its side, it says it cant offer a 
solution here.
Our investigator didnt think Capital One had acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything. 
But Mr J didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J feels strongly about his complaint and has raised a number of points for me to consider. 
I can assure him Ive taken them all into account in reaching my decision. But, in writing this 
decision, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points. So, if I dont comment on a 
specific point, it isnt because Ive failed to take it into account. Its because I dont think I 
need to comment on it specifically here in order to set out my overall findings on the 
complaint clearly and concisely.
The crux of Mr Js complaint is that he cant access his account using the browser of his 
choice. I havent seen any conclusive evidence which explains why this is the case. But 
Capital One has said that issues can arise if a customer is using a less popular browser and 
I think thats a reasonable explanation. I understand that its inconvenient for Mr J not to be 
able to use the browser of his choice. But, as he was (at least for a time) able to access the 
account using an alternative browser, I think the inconvenience of this particular issue was 
minimal.
When logging into his account using the browser recommended by Capital One, Mr J said 
he had to input a code which Capital One sent to his phone each time by text. He found this 
very inconvenient and frustrating and I note that he asked Capital One at the time to make 
his account exempt from this security feature. 
Capital One said this was an extra layer of security which it had added to its online system. It 
said it added a cookie to the customers device which remembers the device so that it wont 
ask for another activation code for 90 days. It explained that, if Mr J blocked or removed 
cookies, then he would be asked for an activation code every time he attempted to log in. I 
note that Mr J told Capital One in 2018 that he deletes browsing data including cookies after 
each use.  
Its for Capital One as a business to decide what online facility its going to offer customers 
and what security measures and procedures it puts in place. Equally, its for Mr J to decide 
what software he uses or whether he wants to have cookies on his device. But I wouldnt 
expect Capital One to change its security measures specifically for Mr Js account and I 
dont think it acted unreasonably by saying it couldnt make his account exempt from these 
measures. If Mr J doesnt want the cookies on his device, I dont think its unreasonable to 
ask him to input a code each time he wants to log in, in order to keep his account secure.
But Mr J says he now cant access his account whichever web browser he uses. I havent 
seen any evidence which confirms conclusively why he cant log in to his account. But 
Capital One says that no other customers are reporting this problem and that there were no 
issues with its system on the dates and times when Mr J experienced difficulties. So I cant 
fairly conclude that Capital One is responsible for Mr J being unable to access his online 
account. 
Capital One has offered to investigate in more detail and has provided a phone number for 
Mr J to call. I think thats a fair approach. I understand that Mr J doesnt want to speak to 
Capital One on the phone and thats his choice to make. But, in the circumstances, I dont 
think Capital One needs to do any more.
During the investigation of this complaint, Mr J wanted to update the address which Capital 
One holds for him and asked to receive statements by email. Our investigator has put these 
requests to Capital One for him. I understand it may not be possible for Capital one to send 
out statements by email but Capital One has tried to contact Mr J to discuss this and help 
with his requests. Capital One has tried calling Mr J twice and has left messages asking him 
to call back. I understand that Mr J is unwilling to speak to Capital One over the phone. But, 
in the circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable that it has tried to contact him in this 
way. I would urge Mr J to get in touch with Capital One directly about these issues.I realise Mr J feels very strongly about his complaint and that my decision will disappoint 
him. But I havent seen any evidence of a mistake on Capital Ones part here, and I dont 
think its acted unreasonably. So Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman