DRN-3027881
The complaint
Miss D complains about delays in the transferring of her Junior ISA and that National 
Savings and Investments wont pay her interest from the date she feels it should.
Due to her age, Miss D is represented in this complaint by her father and it was her father 
who requested the transfer and was communicating with NS&I.  But, for clarity, Ill just refer 
to Miss D in my decision.
  
What happened
Miss D first requested the transfer of her Junior ISA from her previous provider to NS&I on 
6 June 2020. NS&I then wrote to her asking for a transfer authority form to be completed, 
and it appears NS&I received this form back around 23 June 2020. NS&I then wrote to the 
previous provider on 3 July 2020 asking for the funds to be transferred, but says the cheque 
from the previous provider wasnt received until 4 August 2020.
Miss D complained as her previous provider told her it had sent the cheque to NS&I on 
16 July 2020 and so, as NS&I had only started paying interest from 4 August 2020, shed 
lost out on the interest she should have earned between those two dates. She highlighted 
industry guidance which said interest should be paid by the new provider from the earlier of 
the date on the cheques from the previous provider or 16 days after the transfer authority 
forms were received. So she felt NS&I should have paid her interest from 14 July 2020, as 
this was 16 days after the forms were received by NS&I.
NS&I investigated but said it had banked the cheque on the day it was received and had 
dealt with the transfer process within reasonable timescales and without excessive delay. So 
it didnt agree to change the date it had started paying interest. It did pay Miss Ds father £50 
for not acknowledging that it had received the funds from the previous provider. Miss D 
wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt it was unfair that NS&I had only 
paid interest from the date it received the cheque from the previous provider. They felt it 
would be fair for NS&I to pay interest from 16 July 2020, the day after the previous provider 
stopped paying interest, so that Miss D hadnt lost out on any days interest. NS&I agreed 
but Miss D disagreed, as she felt NS&I should pay interest from 14 July 2020, regardless of 
when the previous provider stopped paying interest. As Miss D didnt agree, the case has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As NS&I has now agreed to pay interest on Miss Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020, Ive 
focused my decision on whether I think this offer is fair.
The rules about how this service makes decisions are set out in the Dispute Resolution rules 
(DISP)  which can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules say 
that an ombudsman will take into account the law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
relevant codes of practice and what they consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. But it also says that the ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, 
in their opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Throughout her complaint with NS&I and her case with our service, Miss D has referred to 
industry guidance about the transfer of ISAs  most recently, suggested best practice 
guidance published by the government. And I recognise that this guidance says that interest 
on funds transferred as part of an ISA transfer should be backdated either to the date on the 
cheque, or to the date which represents day 16 of the transfer process, whichever is earlier.
But, in this case, Miss Ds previous provider paid interest on her ISA until 15 July 2020. So if 
NS&I was required to pay interest from day 16, which would be 14 July 2020, Miss D would 
have been paid interest by two different providers on the same funds for the same dates. 
And I dont think it would be fair for Miss D to be paid interest for this period twice or to 
require NS&I to pay this additional interest just because, in these circumstances, the 
guidance says it should. I think the fairest outcome would be for Miss D to be put in the 
position she would have been in had the ISA transfer been completed without delay  which 
would be for her to earn interest each day from NS&I after her previous provider stopped 
paying interest.
Miss D has been asked to provide evidence of the interest rate on the Junior ISA with her 
previous provider, in order to see whether she has suffered a financial loss as a result of the 
interest for 14 and 15 July 2020 being paid by her previous provider rather than by NS&I. But 
shes refused to do so. So I havent seen any evidence to suggest Miss D will suffer a 
financial loss as a result of NS&I paying interest from 16 July 2020.
As NS&I paying interest on Miss Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020 means it will have paid 
interest each day after her previous provider stopped, she wont have lost out on any days 
interest, and I havent seen anything to suggest she will have suffered a financial loss, I think 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances.
Miss D has made a number of further points about whether NS&I correctly followed its own 
protocols, on what basis it decided the date to pay interest from and whether it dealt with the 
complaint and awarded redress in line with its own guidance. But its not the role of this 
service to determine whether NS&I followed either internal or external guidance correctly, 
only to look at whether a customer has been treated fairly. And, for the reasons given above, 
I think the offer NS&I has made to pay interest on Miss Ds Junior ISA from 16 July 2020 is 
fair.
NS&I has paid Miss Ds father £50 for not acknowledging that it had received the funds from 
the previous ISA provider. As it is Miss D that is the complainant here, rather than her father, 
I cant require NS&I to pay Miss Ds father any further compensation. And as Miss Ds father 
has been representing her and communicating with NS&I on her behalf, and I can only make 
an award for distress and inconvenience suffered by Miss D herself, I dont think it would be 
fair to require NS&I to pay any further compensation.
  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint and require National Savings and Investments tobackdate the interest paid on Miss Ds Junior ISA, so it is paid from 16 July 2020
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman