DRN-2823922
The complaint
Mr U complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus)
irresponsibly provided unaffordable credit to him.
What happened
Cashplus provided Mr U with a Creditbuilder account in April 2014 and two iAdvance loans 
of £50 each in July and September 2014. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr U and Cashplus had told us. 
As Mr U complained about having been irresponsibly lent to and the Creditbuilder account 
involved a pre-paid account which didnt include credit (no interest or fees) were charged, 
our adjudicator explained that the Creditbuilder account hasnt formed part of this complaint.
And after considering the two iAdvance loans, our adjudicator thought that Cashplus hadnt 
done anything wrong when it provided these. Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the 
loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Us circumstances and his history with the 
lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Cashplus to ask Mr U for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think there was any information that Mr U had provided or Cashplus 
shouldve seen which shouldve prompted it to start verifying what Mr U had said in support 
of his loan applications.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr U had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time he was borrowing from Cashplus shouldve shown 
Cashplus that he mightve been having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Us 
complaint. 
Mr U disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr U mainly said that although the adjudicator said he didn't have any 
defaults/poor credit markers showing at the time of application he believes he had several.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Us complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator and Im not upholding Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why.
Cashplus needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means that 
Cashplus needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr U 
could afford to repay before providing him with the credit it did. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount being lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Cashplus has little information available from the time that it agreed to provide Mr Us 
iAdvance loans. But given how long its been since these applications for credit took place, 
I dont think that this is surprising  and its not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
I understand that Mr U was asked what his income was. I dont know for sure what Mr U 
declared or what was recorded at the time  Cashplus said he reported his income as 
£80,000. I dont know how likely that is. But given what Mr Us bank statements appear to 
show Im satisfied that any declaration he made would have led Cashplus to reasonably 
conclude he would be able to repay a £50 loan. And in the event it appears he paid the first 
iAdvance loan within a few days of taking it out  so Cashplus had no reason to think he 
would have any difficulty with the repayments he was signing up to make on his second 
iAdvance loan when he asked to borrow the same amount again a few months later.
Cashplus also carried out credit checks before agreeing to lend. It cant tell me in any detail 
what the credit report it obtained showed. But I've seen a brief summary of its results and 
also relied on information shown in a credit report and bank statements from the time that 
Mr U has sent me to help build a picture of what Cashplus is likely to have seen.
As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Cashplus saw anything too concerning on its credit 
checks  it looks like Mr U mightve made some payments a month or two late on other 
credit accounts he had at the time, but overall he successfully passed the scoring system 
Cashplus relied on. And looking at what I can see on his bank statements and the credit 
report that Mr U has sent us, I dont think its likely that Cashplus would have seen enough 
adverse information to make it think that a £50 loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable 
for Mr U. 
 
I've taken into account that Mr U says he had black marks showing on his credit file. Bearing 
in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record 
and sometimes an impaired credit history, I havent seen anything in the information 
available to me that Id expect a reasonable lender to be unduly concerned about. It was 
early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Cashplus to agree 
to lend these £50 loans. 
I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances wouldve required Cashplus to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Us finances or ask Mr U to prove what he was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Cashplus to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr U has sent me. So although these show information that suggests 
Cashplus possibly didnt have a proper understanding of Mr Us actual financial situation at 
the time, if this wasnt information that Mr U told Cashplus about, then Cashplus couldnt 
have known about it and I cant fairly say that Cashplus shouldve known about it. I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr U but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman