DRN-2572750
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Aldermore Bank Plc loaded fraud markers against his name after he 
says he was the victim of fraud. 
Hes also unhappy with the length of time Aldermore took to investigate his concerns and 
that it didnt do more to advise him on how to resolve the issue.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr H made application for finance through a broker to Aldermore. As part of 
the application, Mr H produced statements from his bank account to Aldermore.
Following additional checks, Aldermore discovered that the bank statements provided had 
been falsified to show an inflated balance to that genuinely in the account at the time. 
Aldermore declined Mr Hs application and loaded a marker against his name using the Cifas 
and National Hunter databases.
When Mr H became aware of this, he says he discovered that an employee at his company 
had been stealing money from the accounts where the statements had been produced. And 
as the employee didnt want to be discovered, hed altered the statements provided to Mr H 
to avoid detection. Mr H dismissed the employee and supplied Aldermore with evidence to 
support this. Within the signed document, the employee admitted to the theft and alteration 
of statements. He also agreed a repayment plan with Mr H to return the funds hed stolen. 
This document was signed with the employees signature.
Aldermore looked into Mr Hs claim, but after considering the evidence decided that the fraud 
marker loadings would remain. It said that there were sufficient discrepancies in the 
evidence to justify the markers in the circumstances; some of these include:
 The document supplied providing admission of guilt by the employee was of poor 
quality and contained a number of errors
 It questioned why an employee of Mr H would have unrestricted access to his 
personal bank account
 It couldnt understand why Mr H hadnt reported the fraudulent activity to his banking 
provider
 Mr H told it that hed agreed a repayment plan with the employee of £400 per month 
in 18 instalments (£5200) but hed alleged that only £4380 had been stolen
Mr H remained unhappy with Aldermores handling of his claim. He said that hed provided 
as much evidence as he could to disprove his involvement in the fraud and questioned what 
more he could do. He added that hed provided signed documentary evidence to show a 
third-partys admission of guilt and hed reported the matter to the police; to which hed 
supplied the reference number and a letter. He also felt frustrated with Aldermores delayed 
investigation, failure to respond to his communications within deadlines and lack of support 
in assisting him to rectify the issue and proving he was a victim himself. As Mr H remained 
unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
An Investigator at our service began looking into Mr Hs concerns. During this investigation, 
Mr H supplied a signed affidavit from his former employee signed in the presence of a 
legal representativeconfirming that hed stolen the funds from Mr Hs account and had 
altered the banking documents to mask his wrongdoing. Upon presenting this to Aldermore 
for consideration, it made a decision to remove the Cifas marker the following day. It also 
downgraded the National Hunter marker from fraud to inconsistency.
Mr H remained unhappy with the way in which Aldermore dealt with his claim. He didnt think 
the initial Cifas loading was justified and wanted to be compensated for the damage this 
caused to his business, subsequent declined finance applications and impact on his 
personal health. He also remained unhappy with the way in which Aldermore handled his 
claim; such as the delays, poor communication and lack of support.
In addition to the complaint points already made, Mr H made further complaints regarding his 
discovery of the National Hunter marker placed against his name and that Aldermore had 
failed to respond adequately to a data subject access request.
After reviewing the evidence provided by both parties, the Investigator concluded that he 
didnt think Aldermore had made an error in its actions. He felt the initial Cifas loading was 
fair as it did adhere to the evidential standards expected by Cifas. He also agreed that that 
Aldermores downgrading of the National Hunter marker from fraud to inconsistency was 
fair when considering the requirements set out by National Hunter. Whilst he acknowledged 
that complaints regarding data subject access requests were normally handled by the 
Information Commissions Office (ICO), he felt that Aldermore had adequately actioned the 
request. But if there was any further information Aldermore held, he said it should go ahead 
and disclose the information.
Mr H was unhappy with the Investigators assessment of the complaint. He said:
He wasnt satisfied that Aldermore fulfilled the Cifas burden of proof throughout its 
investigation.
The narrative hadnt changed up until, and at the point of, submitting a signed 
affidavit, meaning that the Cifas marker was an inaccurate representation.
The Investigator hadnt addressed the distress and inconvenience caused.
It had been ignored that Mr H had reported the matter to Action Fraud and the Police. 
He also failed to recognise that Mr H had fulfilled his legal obligation as an employer 
to terminate the employment of the perpetrator for gross misconduct.
There was no reference to Mr Hs submissions of the perpetrators bad character 
provided in newspaper reports of his previous fraudulent conduct.
Despite admissions by Aldermore that itd mistakenly closed Mr Hs complaint, the 
Investigator hadnt addressed the intentional frustration of matters and delay.
He was unhappy that reference had been made to the account being a personal 
account and that Mr H had allowed an unnamed account holder access to it. Mr H 
said that he was a sole trader and that it was imperative that he allow his staff access 
to the account.
He remained unhappy with the National Hunter loading despite him proving his 
innocence. He made submission that this continued to have a negative impact on his 
financial affairs unjustly.
As Mr H remained unhappy with the Investigators findings, the matter has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H remains unhappy with the reasons the original Cifas loading was applied against his 
name as he feels he adequately evidenced he was a victim of a fraud himself. So, I must first 
consider if Aldermores application of the marker was fair in the circumstances.
For Aldermore to apply a marker against Mr Hs name to the Cifas database, its required to 
operate within the terms of the National Fraud Database Handbook. Within the handbook, it 
sets out that members can only record information with Cifas if its supported by evidence 
and meets the four pillars burden of proof; namely:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police;
Its accepted by all parties that the document supplied was falsifiedand this was verified 
through the financial business where the statement was purported to have originated. As 
such, the first pillar has been met in that Aldermore had reasonable grounds to believe a 
fraud had been committed or attempted. But Mr H has pointed out that this was done so 
unknowingly as the falsified document had been supplied to him by an employee.
The second pillar requires that the memberin this case Aldermorehas sufficient 
evidence to report the specific conduct of the subjectin this case Mr Hto the police. In 
basic terms, Aldermore has to be satisfied that Mr H himself is responsible for the conduct, 
and it must have clear, relevant and rigorous evidence to support this.
Mr H provided a signed confession and letter of misconduct proceedings against his former 
employee. However, Aldermore didnt deem this to be sufficient in the circumstances. It felt 
that the information contained in the document couldnt be verified as legitimate, there were 
discrepancies and errors held within the document that further undermined its legitimacy, 
and it was suspicious as to why Mr H had allowed an employee access to his personal 
accounts.
While I sympathise with Mr Hs situation, I dont find Aldermores assessment of these facts 
to be unreasonable. Mr H clearly found it difficult to prove beyond what hed provided that he 
was in fact a victim of fraud himself. He felt that the admission and dismissal of the alleged 
culprit, and evidence to support this, was sufficient to prove his innocence. But I find it 
reasonable that Aldermore be suspicious of unverifiable documentary evidence provided by 
the person alleged to have been party to the conduct. I dont necessarily feel that the errors 
in the document were sufficient to decline Mr Hs claims, but there were other reasons given 
by Aldermore to support its decision to retain the marker.
I acknowledge that allowing unrestricted access to a personal account in Mr Hs name does 
present a difficult position for both parties. Mr H says that this was necessary as a sole 
trader to run his business. But as the employee wasnt an account holder or signatory on the 
account, Mr H is unable to evidence that the employee is the person responsible for the 
download and amendment of the fraudulent statements. However, I find it reasonable for 
Aldermore to give weight to this fact considering that it is unusual, and generally against the 
terms and conditions of an account, to allow a third-party access. I can also see that the 
account appears to be a personal account rather than a business account.
Mr H has also pointed out that he reported the matter to Action Fraud, which he says proves 
he took the matter seriously and was innocent. But evidence submitted to our service shows 
that the matter wasnt taken any further following reporting. I acknowledge that law enforcement may have decided not to take things further due to its own internal procedures, 
but this does appear unusual considering the alleged culprit was a named individual, had 
previous bad character and there were viable lines of enquiry to pursue. Im also conscious 
that Mr H had a repayment plan in place with his former employee and may not have wanted 
to pursue matters as a result of the agreement reached. But I can understand why this 
further added to Aldermores reasoning for retaining the marker.
In addition to the above, Aldermore contacted Mr Hs banking provider to ask if the 
fraudulent use of his account had been reported. Having seen the correspondence between 
Aldermore and the banking provider, this clearly indicates that Mr H hadnt reported the 
funds removed from his account or the issue of statements being downloaded and amended 
by the employee. Having said this, I understand the points Mr H has made to explain this. 
Hes pointed out that a repayment plan was agreed with the employee, and hed changed 
the information required to access his account so that further access would be denied. But it 
must be acknowledged that thisas well as other factors covered abovegave Aldermore 
sufficient grounds to fulfil the burden of proof set out by Cifas.
Again, I sympathise with Mr Hs position. He provided as much as he felt he could in the 
circumstances, including some articles regarding the employees previous bad character, a 
letter of dismissal/admission and reported the matter to Action Fraud. But the reasoning 
behind Aldermores decision to retain the marker is reasonable for the reasons Ive set out 
above. Mr H has submitted that Aldermore could have done more to help him understand 
what he needed to provide to prove he was a victim himself, but that isnt Aldermores role. 
My findings set out if Aldermore was fair in its placing of the marker against his name, and in 
the circumstances of this complaint, I find that it was. As such, I cant consider any impact 
the marker had on Mr H when it was applied as I find it was applied fairly in the 
circumstances. I also find the original National Hunter loading to be fair for the reasons Ive 
set out above.
Mr H is also unhappy with Aldermores handling of his claim and subsequent complaint. He 
felt that Aldermore were obstructive and caused unnecessary delays to the investigation into 
his claims.
Having looked at the evidence provided by both parties, there appears to be a gap of circa 
two months between Mr Hs legal representative registering a claim against Aldermore and 
his complaint being brought to our service. Without breaking down the communication 
between both partiesand when considering the Christmas and New Year holiday periodI 
dont find this to be an unreasonable time in which to investigate a claim. I can see that 
Aldermore requested further documentation to support Mr Hs testimony, and after this was 
received, Aldermore responded to Mr Hs representative highlighting its decision to retain the 
marker.
Aldermore has said that it treated the representatives letters as pre-action to civil court 
proceedings as it was coming from a solicitor. Im not sure why it interpreted these 
correspondences in such a way considering that the solicitor was initially questioning the 
validity of the marker rather than setting out an intention to pursue court proceedings, 
nevertheless, I dont think this error caused a significant and unnecessary delay to the 
investigation. Nor do I think it would have impacted the marker placed against Mr Hs name.
Ive also considered Mr Hs claim that Aldermore obstructed hisand his representatives
efforts to rectify issues by not allowing direct communication with its legal department. Its 
not our role to tell a business how it should or shouldnt communicate with its customers, but 
Mr H and his representative did have an open line of communication with the business and 
its legal team; albeit not directly. I dont find this to be unreasonable as Aldermore are 
entitled to decide how its legal team communicates with its customers. I understand Mr Hs frustrations with it not being direct, but I dont find this to be unreasonable.
During the investigation carried out by our service, Mr Hs representative disclosed a signed 
affidavit by Mr Hs former employee admitting to the fabrication of the statements. This was 
signed in the presence of a solicitor. Following disclosure of this to Aldermore, it made the 
decision to remove the Cifas loading and downgrade the National Hunter marker to an 
inconsistency. 
While Mr H was happy that the Cifas loading was removed, he was unhappy that this was 
accepted over the signed admission and dismissal letter provided previously. But this 
document was different in that it had been verified independently in the presence of a third-
party solicitor. So, I can understand why Aldermore placed more weight on this document 
over the one hed provided previously, and when considering the other discrepancies Ive 
already covered above.
Mr H is also unhappy that despite accepting this evidence, Aldermore has still failed to 
remove all markers from the National Hunter database. Hes also claimed that this marker 
remaining on his file continues to impact his ability to receive financial products.
According to National Hunter guidance, inconsistency markers are allowed to be recorded in 
cases where information provided by the consumer doesnt match information found by the 
recording business. As that has been the case here, and there is no dispute in this fact, this 
marker has been applied in line with the guidance and is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr H has told our service that this marker continues to affect his ability to obtain financial 
products, but from the information provided Im not persuaded that this is the case. National 
Hunter guidance on inconsistency markers states that no case can be declined based on a 
National Hunter match alone and the member must investigate their own case in full. 
Therefore, a declined application on this basis would be a matter for the declining business 
to answer rather than Aldermore. Ive also looked at the communication provided by Mr H 
where he has claimed to have an application declined as a result of the inconsistency 
marker. Unfortunately, this doesnt give the specific reason(s) for decline. So overall Im 
satisfied that the National Hunter marker hasnt impacted him in the way hes claimed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman