DRN-2370792
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE delayed in paying a claim on his 
guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ms car was deemed a total loss by his comprehensive motor insurer. He claimed on his 
GAP policy for the difference between his motor insurers settlement of his claim for the total 
loss of the car and the amount he bought it for. Great Lakes told him it would aim to deal 
with his claim within fifteen working days. It settled the claim but took 20 working days in 
total to do so.
Mr M said this caused him a financial loss because he had to keep paying the finance on the 
car in the meantime. Great Lakes apologised for its delay. Mr M didn't think that went far 
enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't 
think Great Lakes needed to do anything else. Mr M didn't agree, so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Great Lakes explained that, owing to an issue with its system, its payment to Mr M was 
delayed. As a result it missed its target for settling Mr Ms claim by a few days. But it said its 
15 working day target is only an estimate and it doesn't give any guarantees it will settle 
claims in that time frame. And from the information I've seen I agree thats the case.
Mr M said that because of Great Lakes delays hes significantly out of pocket, as hes had to 
make further finance repayments for the car. But any payment Mr M had to make to settle 
his finance isn't Great Lakes responsibility. It was only required to settle his claim fairly and 
reasonably. And while its not ideal it couldn't do that within its target time, I don't think its 
short delay means it acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Also, usually, a finance repayment will reduce the total finance debt by the amount of the 
repayment. If thats not what happened in Mr Ms case then this might be something he 
wishes to take up with his finance company. But its not something Great Lakes is 
responsible for. It follows that I don't think Mr M is out of pocket because of Great lakes 
delay in settling his claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman