DRN-3070911
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he signed in January 2019. He says that he took the car to a garage in June 2021 
because of a noise issue and was told that it needed a new engine. He took the car to 
another garage which also told him that it needed a new engine. He then took the car to a 
third garage and was told that it was a recall issue so he complained to MotoNovo Finance.
He says that he was told to take the car to a manufacturers dealer which said that the timing 
belt had broken which would have been caused by the oil not being changed often enough 
or the incorrect oil being used. It also said that this wasnt a recall issue. MotoNovo Finance 
said that there was no evidence that the car was unfit for purpose at the point of sale. Mr B 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that the car had been serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations 
which had contributed to the engine failure  and she thought that Mr B wouldnt have been 
able to cover over 40,000 miles in the car if it had been suffering from a significant engine 
fault at the time of sale. She thought that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied and that it wouldnt be fair to ask MotoNovo Finance to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. She said that she couldnt see that gap insurance was included in the 
finance agreement and it wasnt listed on the dealers sales invoice.
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
our investigators recommendations in detail and has explained why he doesnt agree with 
her findings. He says, in summary, that:
he wouldnt have been able to drive the car to the manufacturers dealer if the timing 
belt had snapped;
he was told that this was a recall issue;
full servicing is only recommended and he looked after the car fine; and
he paid for gap insurance.
The dealer arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in September 
2021. MotoNovo Finance has provided a copy of the experts report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr B was about two and a half years old, had been 
driven for 36,099 miles and had a price of £9,489;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car was supplied to Mr B in January 2019 and he said that there were no 
significant issues with it until June 2021, more than two years later;
the car was serviced in August 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 60,432 and 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that the car was serviced 
between January 2019 and August 2020 (and it was driven for 24,333 miles in that 
time) or since August 2020;
Mr B says that full servicing isnt required - its only a manufacturers 
recommendation and he looked after the car fine  but I consider that its reasonable 
to expect a user of a car to have the car serviced broadly in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations and, if that doesnt happen, I consider that its 
more likely that damage to the car will result;
Im not persuaded that the car was serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations and I consider it to be more likely than not that that has 
significantly contributed to the engine failure;
the manufacturers dealer says: The cause of the failure is down to the timing belt 
break up and there are parts of it in the sump. There are 2 causes of this, either the 
oil has not been changed often enough or the incorrect oil has been used;
Mr B says that he wouldnt have been able to drive the car to the manufacturers 
dealer if the timing belt had snapped  but hes provided no other evidence to show 
that the timing belt hadnt snapped and I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
timing belt had snapped when the issue was investigated by the manufacturers 
dealer; 
the car was inspected by an independent expert in September 2021 when its 
mileage was recorded as 77,788, so between the service in August 2020 and the 
engine failure the car had been driven for a further 17,356 miles without being 
serviced;
the experts report concludes that the engine had failed  as a result of a lack of 
regular servicing ;
Mr B says that the engine failure is a recall issue but the manufacturers dealer says: 
The difference between the recall for the de-gas hose is that the hose would break 
and cause a coolant leak which would overheat the engine. This has not been the 
cause of the failure so we would be unable to proceed with this route;Ive seen no evidence to show that the engine failure on Mr Bs car has been caused 
by a broken de-gas hose and Im not persuaded that its been caused by a known 
issue or that the manufacturers recall is applicable;
Mr B was able to use the car to drive more than 41,000 miles between January 2019 
and the engine failure in June 2021  I dont consider that hed have been able to do 
so if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him and Im not 
persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show that the engine failure has 
been caused by a known issue with the car that was present at that time;
Mr B says that he paid for gap insurance - but gap insurance wasnt included in his 
hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance, nor was it included on the dealers 
invoice for the car, so I dont consider it to be likely that Mr B bought gap insurance 
from the dealer;
I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that hes had with the car and for the other 
difficulties that hes described but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require MotoNovo Finance to allow Mr B to reject the car, to pay for it to be repaired, 
to end the hire purchase agreement, to pay any compensation to Mr B or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint; and
I suggest that Mr B contacts MotoNovo Finance to discuss his options under the hire 
purchase agreement and to explain his financial difficulties to it - its required to 
respond to any financial difficulties that hes experiencing positively and 
sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman