DRN-3228400
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC transferred payments in the wrong currency.
What happened
Mrs N says she made a series of payments to an account. She says the payments were 
made in Pound Sterling (GBP) and the designated account was also a GBP account. But 
Barclays transferred the money in Euros which meant a double currency exchange. Mrs N 
says as a result of the mistake she lost over £4,000 and says when she called Barclays, she 
wasnt told the payments were in Euros or told the default currency was Euros. She would 
like Barclays to reimburse the money.
Barclays says Mrs N made the payments online and it isnt responsible for the currency 
choice. It says its records show the payments were made in Euros and the online screen 
Mrs N would have seen, would have had details of the exchange rate used. 
Mrs N brought her complaint to us and says her transaction print outs say the currency was 
GBP. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Barclays systems defaulted to 
Euros and that Mrs N had the choice to change the currency. The investigator didnt think it 
possible to say Barclays made a mistake or that she was told in a telephone call that the 
payments were in GBP.
Mrs N doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays systems didnt make it clear 
the currency was Euros and disputes that she saw the same screen shots that it has 
provided. She says her account was a GBP account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs N will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly she feels 
about what took place. I have no doubt Mrs N intended to transfer the money in GBP but 
equally I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for what took place for the reasons I will 
explain.
I have looked carefully at Barclays systems and the information Mrs N would have been 
presented with when she made the online transfer. Im satisfied Mrs N made the transfer and 
that she was responsible for making sure all of the information and details were correct. Im 
also satisfied that Barclays systems show the currency the payment would be sent in and 
provided a dropdown list of other currencies. I can also see that the exchange rate was 
provided which showed the amount to be transferred.
So, Im satisfied that it was up to Mrs N to check the currency and cant see that Barclays 
made a mistake here. I appreciate Mrs N may not have noticed the default currency or the 
exchange rate calculation, but I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for that. I have also 
looked at the advice slips which clearly have Euros as the payment currency as well as the 
exchange rate. So, I think that information would have been available for Mrs N to view 
before she authorised the transaction.
I appreciate Mrs N says Barclays staff told her the payment was made in GBP when she 
called it. I have not seen or heard evidence of that in the various telephone calls between the 
parties and think Mrs Ns main concern at that stage was the account block removal.
Overall, I cant fairly conclude Barclays has made a mistake here and think on balance it 
followed Mrs Ns instructions. I have explained that I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible if 
Mrs N didnt appreciate the default currency setting. For those reasons I cant in these 
circumstances order Barclays to refund Mrs Ns loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman