DRN-4454503
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P found some damp on a wall in their home. Initially, Mr P and Mrs P thought 
the issue was due to a neighbours guttering. Action was taken to deal with the issue, but the 
damage to Mr P and Mrs Ps home got worse. So, they arranged for a damp specialist to 
investigate the issue. The damp company thought the issue was with the wall and started 
work to fix it. However, when the damp company investigated further, it found a burst pipe 
under the kitchen floor, which was causing the damage. 
When Mr P and Mrs P contacted AA to make a claim, AA investigated it and declined it on 
the basis of a gradually operating cause. So, Mr P and Mrs P complained to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mr P and Mrs P had proactively tried to fix the 
issue and followed the professional advice they were given. So, she didnt think it was 
reasonable for AA to decline the claim on the basis of a gradually operating cause. As Mr P 
and Mrs P had repaired the damage at their own expense, our investigator said AA should 
cover their costs and that it should also pay £500 compensation for the impact on them. 
As AA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr P and Mrs P first found a patch of damp, they investigated it and a void was found 
between their property and their neighbours home. A gutter was found to be blocked, which 
it was thought was likely to be causing the gutter to overflow. This was unblocked and they 
were advised that the wall should then dry out over warmer months. The neighbour also 
filled the void. So, I think Mr P and Mrs P took action when they found an issue and that it 
was reasonable for them to think the issue had been resolved.
However, the wall didnt dry out over the months that followed. So, Mr P and Mrs P 
contacted a damp specialist company to look at the issue. The damp company thought the 
build-up of debris between Mr P and Mrs Ps property and their neighbour was likely to be 
the cause of the issue. The companys report said no obvious plumbing leak was identified 
at that time. It recommended injecting the damp proof course and replastering.
Mr P and Mrs P agreed to the work being carried out by the damp company. It was only 
when the work commenced, including removing kitchen cupboards, that a leak was found 
under the concrete kitchen floor. So, I think Mr P and Mrs P had continued to take 
reasonable steps to try and find the source of the damp and that it was only when the 
cupboard was removed that it was possible to identify there was a leak. They then contacted 
AA promptly to log a claim.
The policy covered damage caused by water leaking from heating installations, appliances 
and pipes. The leak was from a burst pipe. So, Im satisfied the type of damage was covered 
by the policy. However, the policy said it didnt cover gradually operating causes. So, Ive 
thought about whether it was reasonable for AA to apply this exclusion.
Im aware that AAs surveyor said Mr P and Mrs P hadnt carried out their due diligence in a 
timely manner, as they had said the issue kept coming back and hadnt carried out further 
investigation. As Ive already explained, I think Mr P and Mrs P took reasonable action to try 
and identify the source of the issue. Even when a damp specialist investigated the issue, it 
didnt identify a leak. The leak was only found when kitchen cupboards were removed as 
part of other work identified to fix the issue. I wouldnt expect a policyholder to remove a 
kitchen cupboard unless they had a specific reason to do so and I dont think they could 
have known about the leak under the floor without doing so. 
Where damage happens gradually and the policy says it doesnt cover this, we would 
normally say it is reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim. However, we would also 
consider whether the consumer should have been aware of the damage happening and 
whether they took reasonable action as soon as they became aware of it. Mr P and Mrs P 
were aware there was a problem. In my view, they took reasonable steps when they found 
the issue, including clearing a gutter, informing their neighbour, who then filled the void, and 
contacting a damp specialist when the issue continued. So, I think Mr P and Mrs P took 
reasonable steps to deal with the damp issue and that it is therefore unfair for AA to apply 
the exclusion. Mr P and Mrs P have had the work carried out. So, I think AA should settle the 
claim at the cost to Mr P and Mrs P to have the work carried out to fix the damage. 
Ive also thought about compensation. Mr P and Mrs P were caused inconvenience by AA 
declining the claim, including having to arrange their own contractors to carry out the work. 
Its my understanding that this put a financial and emotional strain on Mr P and Mrs P as 
they couldnt afford to do the work but felt they had no other option than to pay for the work 
to try and restore their home. So, I think AA should pay £500 compensation to recognise the 
impact on Mr P and Mrs P.
Putting things right
AA should settle the claim at the cost to Mr P and Mrs P to have the work carried out and 
pay £500 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle the claim at the cost to Mr P and Mrs P for work to repair the damage covered by 
the claim, subject to them providing suitable evidence of this.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman