DRN-3197242
The complaint
Mr S complains he was asked to leave a Santander UK Plc branch when he checked 
information about making a cash withdrawal. Mr S also complains about how Santander 
handled an international transfer. Mr S has told us he feels branch staff discriminated 
against him when he visited. 
  
What happened
Mr S has explained he visited a Santander branch in Scotland on several occasions last year 
to ask about the process of obtaining English bank notes as he was planning to move 
abroad. Mr S has explained he didnt want to take Scottish bank notes with him. Mr S says 
branch staff provided inconsistent information about whether English bank notes could be 
supplied. Mr S says that during a particular visit in May 2020 he was asking counter staff 
about the process but was interrupted by the branch manager who was rude and told him to 
leave the branch having threatened to call the Police. Mr S complains the branch manager 
discriminated against him due to his race. 
Mr S visited the same branch of Santander to ask about costs and exchange rates when 
completing an international transfer. Mr S says he was told Santander charged £25 to 
complete the transfer. Mr S also says branch staff told him he could cancel the transfer if he 
was unhappy. Mr S says that when the transfer was processed he found the total charges 
came to £150 so asked to cancel. Mr S says he had another option available to transfer his 
funds for £27 and wanted to use that. 
Mr S says Santander then told him the transfer couldnt be cancelled as he had approved it. 
Santander says Mr S approved the transfer via Chip and Pin authorisation after it provided 
the full details of fees and exchange rates. Mr S has told us he was asked to step away from 
the counter then return to the branch later in the day. But when Mr S returned, the branch 
manager told him the transfer couldnt be recalled. Mr S went on to raise a complaint. 
Santander issued a final response but didnt agree it had misled Mr S regarding the costs of 
completing an international transfer. But Santander accepted there may have been a 
misunderstanding and offered Mr S £100 to apologise. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said Santander had awarded Mr S £150 which recognised the fees and 
exchange rate Mr S had paid. The investigator didnt think Santander had treated Mr S 
unfairly and felt his experience in branch reflected the situation as a whole. 
Mr S responded and said he hadnt received any complaint responses from Santander and 
wasnt aware of any compensation paid. Mr S also said he was the only non white non 
British person in the branch during the visits in question and that he feels the language used 
by the manager was directed at him as a minority. Mr S said he wants Santander to ensure 
training is provided to the staff involved. As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently asked Santander to confirm how much compensation its paid to date and whether 
it made the offer of £150 known to Mr S. Santander responded and said its offer was £150, 
not the £100 it noted in the final response. Santander also said it couldnt show whether the 
payment was ever made to Mr S. Santander has told us it will pay Mr S £150 if he accepts. 
Santander has confirmed that if Mr S doesnt have a UK account it can make arrangements 
for compensation to be paid into an overseas account. 
Id like to thank Mr S for the level of detail hes given us concerning his experiences in 
branch. I understand Mr S felt he was treated differently to other customers and 
discriminated against because of his race. I can understand why Mr S is upset and 
appreciate he feels Santanders staff treated him unfairly. 
As a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equalities Act 
2010. But I have taken that legislation and what it says about how businesses should treat 
consumers into account when considering Mr S complaint. 
I understand Mr S asked for the CCTV footage to be viewed and considered. But the CCTV 
isnt available for review. I also think its reasonable to note that Santander has confirmed it 
doesnt record audio in branch, so even if we had been able to view the footage its unlikely 
to have helped show what happened in branch. 
As the investigator set out in detail within their findings, Santander obtained statements from 
the staff present during the incidents raised. They include staff who answered Mr S 
questions about obtaining English bank notes as well as staff who were in branch when the 
transfer was completed. 
Santanders branch staff say Mr S asked for English bank notes on a number of occasions 
and they always tried to assist as far as possible. But its clear that Mr S found the 
information provided by staff to be inconsistent. And I understand that ultimately led to staff 
telling Mr S they couldnt guarantee what sort of bank note would be supplied. Mr S says he 
was asked to leave by the manager while he was asking counter staff about the process 
involved. 
The counter staff who served Mr S have say they gave Mr S as much information and help 
as possible and had answered his questions during his visit. I know Mr S feels he was 
treated differently, but Santander has explained other customers also require access to 
different bank notes. And just because Mr S was depositing English bank notes through the 
ATMs doesnt mean the physical notes were going directly into his account, the money 
deposited goes into the same cassette and is bagged to be dispersed to customers 
throughout the day. I think the answers provided by members of staff reflect different options 
they were considering to try and help. 
Mr S says the manager made him feel discriminated against because she said the bank 
didnt want to help customers like you. Mr S has explained that during his visit he was the 
only non white person in the branch. But the statements weve received from branch staff 
dont indicate that Mr S was denied assistance or asked to leave the branch.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I dont think Santander treated him unfairly in branch. But I 
understand why Mr S was upset by the way his branch visit went. 
Mr S attended the branch again to complete an international transfer. Santander says Mr S 
was given full details of the exchange rate and costs during the transfer process. Santander has also explained Mr S authorised the transfer at the final stage with his chip and pin and 
that it couldnt have gone ahead without his say so. Mr S says it wasnt clear how much he 
would be charged before the transfer was processed and that he lost out on around £150. 
Santander has offered Mr S £150 to resolve his complaint. If he accepts, that means Mr S 
wont have lost out as a result of fees and the exchange rate used for the transfer. 
I dont doubt how the situation made Mr S feel and I dont seek to diminish what hes told us. 
But I think the situation Mr S experienced in branch most likely became heated when the 
parties involved disagreed. Santander says that Mr S asked for information about making a 
bank transfer which was provided and that he went on to approve it. The branch staff say the 
situation escalated when Mr S was unable to cancel the transfer. Its clear thats different to 
the way Mr S remembers events, but I have to take all parties comments into account when 
reaching a decision. In my view, the difference of opinion concerning the information Mr S 
was given most likely caused the disagreement. I havent been persuaded that Santander 
treated Mr S unfairly in this case. 
In his response to the investigator Mr S said he hadnt received Santanders final response. 
Santander recently confirmed it was sent to Mr S via secure online messaging. If Mr S cant 
get a copy, hes welcome to request one from our investigator. I also asked Santander about 
the process of updating Mr S address but have been informed hes closed his accounts. 
Santander has confirmed its offer of £150 remains open to Mr S. As Im satisfied thats a fair 
way to resolve Mr S complaint, Im not telling Santander to increase the award of take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman