DRN-3137332
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund money he says he lost as 
part of a scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Revolut has provided evidence to show that the mobile device and IP address 
frequently used by Mr M to access his account was the same device used on 
22 January 2020 to make the 800EUR payment. Mr M hasnt said that he had lost his 
device or had lent it to anyone else. And there are no records of any attempted logins 
from any other devices. So on balance, it seems most likely that Mr M authorised the 
payment himself from his own mobile device (although I accept, he may have been 
tricked into doing so by a scammer), as theres nothing to suggest that any other 
device was used by anyone else to access his account in order to make a payment. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Revolut should have done more to identify the 
800EUR transaction as potentially being fraudulent, such that they shouldve 
prevented Mr M from making it, because there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character for him. 
However, taking into account Mr Ms usual account activity and payment history, I 
dont think the payment was particularly unusual for him at the time. It wasnt of such 
a large amount that it would appear unusual in comparison with his spending history, 
for example, such that the amount ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that he might have been at risk of falling for a scam. So I dont think 
Revolut can fairly be held liable for Mr Ms loss here as I dont think there was any 
obligation on them to intervene or prevent the payment in these circumstances.
Mr M says that Revolut changed his PIN number several times before he fell victim to 
the scam, which he thinks helped contribute to his money being lost. However, 
Revolut has provided our service with evidence that shows there were in fact no PIN 
changes on his account from July 2019 to July 2020, which is inclusive of the date 
when Mr M said he was scammed on 22 January 2020. I understand Revolut said 
that Mr M had deactivated his card on 11 December 2019, which he disputes as he 
says he was still making card payments after that point. But in any event, theres no 
evidence here to substantiate his position that Revolut continuously changed his PIN. 
Even if they had, I still dont think this would be enough to demonstrate that Revoluts 
acts were the proximate cause of Mr Ms loss of money in these circumstances. 
I note that Mr M is also unhappy about being locked out of his account after he 
reported the fraud. But I can see that on multiple occasions Revolut requested 
information from him, which he didnt provide, such as a copy of the email he 
received from the fraudster pretending to be from the bank that provided a fake 
telephone number. Revolut has explained that in line with its fraud protocol it cannot 
unlock the account until it has completed its security procedures, so I dont think it 
has done anything wrong here by keeping the account locked until it received the 
necessary information to investigate the fraud and secure the account. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Revolut has done anything wrong here, or that theres any fair and 
reasonable basis in which to hold them liable for the 800EUR payment made from his 
account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman