DRN-4293657
Complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In May 2020, Moneybarn provided Mr M with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £5,050.00. Mr M paid a deposit of £100 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £4,950.00. The loan had interest charges of 
£4,896.51. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £9,846.51 (not including Mr Ms  
deposit of £100) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £166.89.
Mr M complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr M provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr M which showed his existing 
borrowing levels were low and that he hadnt had obvious recent difficulties with credit such 
as defaults or county court judgments (CCJ) against him. And when the repayments to Mr 
Ms existing commitments plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ms living expenses were 
deducted from his monthly income the repayments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr M says he was already struggling with his existing commitments and 
had defaulted accounts, which meant that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable 
and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr M and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks 
Moneybarn carried out did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Ms living costs given the amount being borrowed, 
the total amount Mr M had to repay and the amount of the monthly payment Mr M had to 
make. 
I think this is especially the case as Mr M had CCJs against him. Moneybarn might not have 
considered these recent but I still think that they were relevant. That said, I dont think that 
obtaining further information on Mr Ms actual living costs would have made a difference to 
Moneybarns decision to lend. 
I say this because as Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide 
what I think Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further 
information from Mr M. What I need to think about here is what did Moneybarn need to do in 
order to answer the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were 
Mr Ms actual regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already 
validated by the credit search)?  given this was a first agreement and Mr M was being 
provided with a car rather than cash.
The information Mr M has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from what was going into 
his account, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments 
due under this agreement. 
Mr M says that the benefit payments going into the account werent his. I accept its possible 
that this is the case. But nonetheless it looks like Mr Ms household expenditure was going 
from this account. And when all of this is deducted from what was going into to the account, 
there was enough left over to make the payments to what was, in any event, going to be an 
asset that the household had the opportunity to benefit from. 
I should also ex[lain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could 
possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable 
bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr M did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. So Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Mr M when it agreed to provide the 
funds.As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr M. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ms account and it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman