DRN-3797813
The complaint
Ms B, through a representative, complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
 
What happened
Ms B was advanced six home collected loans between March 2019 and March 2021. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 21/03/2019 19/09/2019 20 £7.50
2 £130.00 16/10/2019 18/04/2020 34 £6.50
3 £300.00 27/07/2020 20/03/2021 34 £15.00
4 £200.00 15/08/2020 23/12/2020 34 £10.00
5 £200.00 23/12/2020 sold 34 £10.00
6 £200.00 24/03/2021 sold 34 £10.00
Ms B had some problems repaying her final two loans and Morses statement of account 
shows these balances were sold to a third-party collection agency in February 2022. 
Following Ms Bs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Ms B then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  5 so he didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint about these loans. But he 
thought the lending was now harmful for Ms B by the time loan 6 was granted and so he 
upheld Ms Bs complaint about the loan. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below.
For loan 6, Ms Bs income was verified and therefore Morses believed only about 5% 
of her income was being used to meet her loan repayments. The loan looked 
affordable.
Loan 6 was for the same value as the previous two loans. 
Ms B did have problems repaying loan 5 in January 2021, but the contact note 
provided by Morses shows this was caused by the pandemic. But she was back 
working and receiving her salary when loan 6 was approved. 
Ms Bs representative has acknowledged receipt of the outcome reached by the adjudicator. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms B. These factors include:
Ms B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms B.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms B was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms B (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  5. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
I would add, that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans. So, I say no more about these loans. 
For loan 6, Morses has shown that it asked Ms B for details of her income and expenditure. 
She declared, an income of £368.36 with outgoings of £272 per week. This left Ms B with a 
weekly disposable income of £96.36 per week to make her weekly repayment for loan 6 of 
£10. But with loan 5 being outstanding than the total weekly commitment to Morses was £20 
per week.  Based solely on Ms Bs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms B had been 
indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew about Ms 
Bs lending. For example, Ms B returning for further borrowing on the same day a previous 
loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very 
least, started to have verified the information it was being given about her expenditure. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest it carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude the loan was unaffordable for Ms B.  
And I say this because in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at 
the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a 
point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms B was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms B had taken out five previous loans in 2 years. So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms B was having to borrow to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
Ms B was generally provided with a new loan either on or around the same day a 
previous loan was repaid, and it seems the new loans were partly used to repay the 
previous loans. For example, it seems that some of loan 5 went towards repaying 
loan 4. To me, this is a sign that Ms B was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in 
her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Morses says that Ms B had some previous repayment problems, but this was caused 
by the pandemic. I can see no payments being received between December 2021 
and February 2022. But, shortly after loan 6 was approved, Ms B didnt make a 
payment for nearly two months  indicating that her repayment problems were likely 
still affecting her when this loan was granted. 
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Bs weekly commitments generally 
either increased or remained static  any decrease was small. The total commitment 
for loan 6, was £20 per week which was more than three times as large as when the 
relationship started. However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive 
and overlapping manner, ought to have led Morses to realise the lending wasnt 
sustainable anymore. 
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 2 years after Ms Bs first loan and was to be repaid over a longer term  34 
weeks. Her final loan was also twice the size of her first loan.  Ms B had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
My view is further reinforced, that loan 6 was unstainable, because Ms B had further 
repayment problems that resulted in Morses selling the debt to a third-party collection 
agency.
I think that Ms B lost out when Morses provided loan 6 because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint about loan 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms B with loan 6. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses are not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from loan 6, and treat any 
repayments made by Ms B as though they had been repayments of the principal 
towards loan 6. If this results in Ms B having made overpayments then Morses 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms B. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms B. E. The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Ms Bs credit file. 
Morses do not have to remove loan 6 from Ms Bs credit file until it has been repaid, 
but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms B as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman