DRN-1715042
The complaint
Mr H complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc handled his chargeback dispute.
What happened
In 2017 Mr H had a new conservatory built, and part of his payment for that (nearly £5,000) 
was made with a NatWest debit card. The work was unsatisfactory for a number of reasons, 
and it is not in dispute that Mr H complained immediately, but he says that the builder failed 
to engage with him. Mr H therefore approached another ombudsman service, but that 
service failed to resolve his complaint since it was apparently not able to cope with the 
volume of evidence and correspondence generated by the case. So in early 2019 Mr H 
raised a chargeback dispute with NatWest about his debit card payment.
At first NatWest told Mr H that he had left it too late, under Visas chargeback rules, to raise 
a chargeback dispute. But when her persisted, NatWest relented and raised a chargeback 
dispute. That dispute was defended by the builder and was taken to arbitration before Visa, 
and at that stage Visa denied the claim because it had been brought out of time.
Mr H complained to NatWest, which maintained that it was not its fault that the chargeback 
claim had failed. NatWest conceded that some of its communication with Mr H could have 
been better, and paid him £105 compensation for that, but it said that this had not affected 
the outcome of his chargeback claim.
Mr H brought this complaint to our Service, but out investigator did not uphold it. She quoted 
the time limits in the Visa rules and concluded that Mr H had waited too long to approach 
NatWest and raise a chargeback dispute. She thought £105 was fair compensation for the 
matters to which it related.
Mr H explained that he had only waited until 2019 to raise the chargeback dispute because 
he had wanted to exhaust the other ombudsman services procedures first. He insisted that 
he had acted promptly because he had complained to the builder right away. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin, I would like to express my sympathy to Mr H and his wife, on whose health 
this whole ordeal has taken a toll. I have no doubt that the builders work and his subsequent 
handling of the matter has been very stressful for them both. 
However, for the reasons given below, I am unable to uphold this complaint. As our 
investigator explained, my remit here is only to consider NatWests handling of Mr Hs 
chargeback claim, and not the actions of any third party. The fact that I do not think that 
NatWest is at fault for the outcome of the chargeback process is not an exoneration of the 
builder (I expressly make no findings about the quality of the builders work), nor is it meant 
as any criticism of Mr H for taking the time to pursue his complaint with the other 
ombudsman service to its conclusion (if conclusion is the right word for it, as it was really 
inconclusive).
I am afraid that the fact of the matter is that Mr H did not bring this matter to NatWest within 
Visas chargeback time limits (I will explain why), and NatWest has no power to waive or 
extend the time limits, which are strictly applied. I am therefore unable to say that NatWest is 
responsible for the outcome, and so I do not think it would be fair and reasonable of me to 
order NatWest to refund Mr Hs debit card purchase anyway.
Mr H has drawn our attention to the October 2019 version of Visas chargeback rules. 
However, the rules which applied when NatWest raised the dispute, and when Visa declined 
Mr Hs claim at the arbitration stage, were the October 2018 version. The Visa chargeback 
rules use the word Dispute with a capital D, to refer to a claim brought by NatWest against 
the builders bank under the rules. The word Dispute does not refer to Mr Hs negotiations 
with the builder (which are referred to in the rules as negotiations).
The rules read as follows (I have omitted the footnotes because they are not relevant here):
A Dispute must be processed within both:
120 calendar days of either:
 The Transaction Processing Date
 The date the Cardholder received the merchandise or services
60 calendar days of the date the Issuer received the first Cardholder
notification of the dispute, if both:
 There is evidence in the notification of previous ongoing negotiations
between the Cardholder and the Merchant to resolve the dispute.
 The negotiations occurred within 120 days of the Transaction Processing
Date.
In this case, the transaction processing date (i.e. the card payment) and the services were 
both in December 2017, so the 120 day time limit in the first paragraph expired some time in 
April 2018. But the Dispute was not begun until 2019. I accept that the negotiations between 
the Cardholder (Mr H) and the Merchant (the builder) occurred within the 120 day time limit 
in the second paragraph, but the two paragraphs are independent  its necessary to comply 
with both of them. So although Mr H challenged the builder promptly, that doesnt alter the 
fact that he did not ask NatWest to raise a Dispute until it was too late. By then, the outcome 
was already out of NatWests hands. (NatWest tried anyway, but that doesnt mean that 
Mr H still had a chance.)
I understand Mr Hs reason for not trying NatWest earlier  he was waiting for another 
ombudsman service to deal with his complaint first. Unfortunately, Visas rules dont provide 
for that scenario by making an exception or allowing for an extension of the time limit. A 
failure to meet the deadline is fatal to a chargeback claim, and so it was not NatWests fault 
that Mr Hs claim was unsuccessful.
NatWest could have explained this better. Mr H was originally sent a letter telling him that 
the reason his chargeback claim had failed was because the evidence was weak, which was 
not in fact the case and was misleading. NatWest apologised for that, and paid him £105 for 
that and for some other communication issues. I think that is fair compensation for that 
matter.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman