DRN-3813013
The complaint
Mr S and Miss C complain that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr S and Miss C made a claim on their policy to pursue legal action against their new homes 
building warranty for poor construction of their home. 
Amtrust declined the claim due to a policy exclusion which says there is no cover for claims 
made against the insurer. It said as it is also the insurer of the building warranty, the legal 
expenses policy isnt going to pay the costs of taking legal action against itself.
Mr S and Miss C raised a complaint. They said it was an unreasonable technicality to decline 
the claim, as they werent aware of who the insurers for both policies were given that theyre 
marketed under different brand names. And they didnt choose the building warranty, this 
was provided by the builder.
As Amtrust maintained its position, Mr S and Miss C brought their complaint to our service. 
And our Investigator upheld it. She didnt think the policy exclusion had been applied fairly in 
the circumstances of the case. 
Mr S and Miss S accepted this outcome, but Amtrust didnt. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy exclusion Amtrust relies on, as set out in the terms and conditions of the legal 
expenses section, says:
There is no cover forclaims made by or against Your insurance advisor, the 
Insurer, the Advisor or Us.
The policy defines Insurer as Amtrust Europe Limited. 
This isnt an unusual policy exclusion, as insurers are understandably unwilling to fund the 
costs of taking legal action against themselves. But Ive thought about whether its been 
applied fairly in the circumstances of this claim, and I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
As Ive said, its reasonable for Amtrust to specifically exclude claims against itself under its 
policy. But it doesnt exclude claims against all insurers. So arguably, a claim against 
another insurer would be covered under this policy subject to it meeting the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. 
In this case however, it just happens that the insurer of the other policy is also Amtrust. And 
whilst that would be a claim against itself, its a claim against itself in another capacity  the 
insurer of the building warranty, not the insurer of the legal expenses policy. Im persuaded 
by Mr S and Miss Cs argument that this is a technicality which has been applied unfairly.
Im also persuaded by their comments that this situation was outside of their control. They 
didnt choose the building warranty; the builders did. And the legal expenses insurance is an 
add on to a home insurance policy underwritten by another insurer. So I dont think its fair to 
penalise Mr S and Miss C for Amtrust holding a percentage of the insurance market.
In summary, Im not satisfied that Amtrusts rejection of the claim based on this policy 
exclusion is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So it should reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to 
reconsider this claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman