DRN-1921876
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) administered his motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to pay him £400 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
UKI made a mistake with the direct debit for Mr Ss policy and this led to missed payment 
markers being added to his credit record. Mr S discovered this when his credit card provider 
told him it was lowering his credit limit due to adverse credit information. 
UKI agreed it had made a mistake. It said it would correct the reported missed payments and 
it offered Mr S £50 compensation. But Mr S didnt think this was enough. He was also 
unhappy that his credit card provider wont restore his credit limit. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
restored Mr Ss position. And he thought £50 compensation was sufficient for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr S replied that he wasnt satisfied by this. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss dismay and frustration that this mistake occurred. He said that six 
missed payments suddenly appeared on his credit record and this then affected his credit 
score and also one credit card limit. 
UKI investigated Mr Ss concern and found that it had been taking payments for Mr Ss 
policy from another customers account. When this was corrected, at that customers 
instigation, Mr S was left with six missed payments. He said hes now paid these and UKI 
has corrected his credit record. But he had the trouble of having to sort this out. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I can see that when Mr S told UKI of the error, it corrected it immediately. I think this was fair 
and reasonable as wed expect a business to act promptly to correct an error when its 
pointed out. 
UKI also offered Mr S £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. From what I can 
see, I think the error didnt have a significant impact on Mr S. But I can see that he had to 
call UKI, his credit card provider and the credit reference agency to resolve the issue. And I 
can see that he had to check his credit record to make sure it was correct. I think £50 is 
sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Its in keeping with what 
Id award in similar circumstances. So I dont require UKI to increase this.
Mr S also said his credit card provider wouldnt restore his credit limit. He said it had dropped 
his limit due to UKIs adverse information on his credit record. But, as this is a separate 
business, I cant consider Mr Ss complaint about it here. Mr S would have to complain to the 
credit card provider if he thinks it has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman