DRN-4030527
The complaint
Mr W says that he was misled into buying a long-term holiday product. Because he paid for 
the product in part using his credit card, issued by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, he says 
that he has a claim against RBS in the same way as he has a claim against the seller.
What happened
On 2 June 2011 Mr and Mrs W bought a holiday product from MVCI Holidays SAS (MVCI), 
a company registered in France. The documents from the time of sale indicate that they 
bought the right to occupy a 3-bedroom property for one silver season week each year at 
MVCIs resort. The total price was £15,469.99, including a down payment of £1,547. Mr W 
made that payment by credit card on 17 June 2011.
In July 2019 Mr W contacted RBS to say that he had been misled about what he had bought 
and that he therefore had a claim against the bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. Specifically, he said that, in 2012/2013 he and Mrs W had visited one of MVCIs 
resorts but had been told that their silver membership did not allow them to use the facilities 
there.
The bank responded to say that it thought, given the time that had passed since the 
purchase, any claim against MVCI was likely to be out of time. It did not therefore agree to 
meet the claim.
Mr W referred the matter to this service. In doing so, he referred in addition to a claim under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that any claim 
for misrepresentation against MVCI was likely to be out of time and was not persuaded that 
Mr W had a claim under section 140A. He also considered the effect of section 56.
Mr W did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. In doing so, he said that the usual time limits did not apply because the initial 
transaction had been fraudulent. He said too that no affordability checks had been carried 
out by RBS.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I noted that the credit 
card was in Mr Ws sole name, so only he was eligible to bring the complaint. (It had been 
referred to us jointly on behalf of Mr and Mrs W.) I went on to say:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa or Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements. I am 
satisfied that such arrangements were in place in this case, so I must consider what Mr W 
has said about the sale and the actions of MVCI.
Misrepresentation
Mr Ws primary case is that he has a claim for misrepresentation against MVCI. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr W into buying the 
timeshare were made on or before 2 June 2011. Mr W did not however raise any complaint 
with until around July 2019, more than eight years later. I think it very likely therefore that an 
English court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the 
time limit in the Limitation Act.
Mr W says however that the limitation period should be extended under section 32 of the 
Limitation Act because it was abundantly clear that fraudulent misrepresentations were 
made.
Section 32 says that, in cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, a period of limitation does 
not begin to run until the claimant has discovered the fraud, concealment or mistake.
I am not persuaded that there was fraud or concealment in this case, still less that it was 
abundantly clear. The evidence I have seen lacks any real detail  for example, it does not 
explain what use Mr W has had of the holiday product or why he waited so long to raise any 
issue. There is no evidence at all that he complained at any point to MVCI. The only specific 
claim that is made concerns events in 2012 and/or 2013, when Mr W says he discovered 
that the membership did not provide the benefits he thought it would. So, far from being 
concealed from him, the representations he says were false were evident within a year or 
two.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the alleged unfairness ended. As far as I am aware, Mr W still has the credit card 
account, but the parties can tell me in their response if [he] has.Mr W has not said why he thinks the credit card agreement created an unfair agreement, 
other than by reference to the contract with MVCI. But he already had the credit card when 
he entered into that agreement, and his decision to open a credit card account was 
unconnected with anything MVCI said or did. He seems to have used it regularly both before 
and after the payment to MVCI. I think it unlikely that a court would conclude that there was 
an unfair relationship in this case.
Affordability
The suggestion that the bank did not properly assess whether Mr W could afford to borrow 
the money to pay MVCI was not made until after our investigator issued their assessment. It 
has not been supported with any evidence, and Mr W does not appear to have suggested to 
RBS that he was having difficulty paying his credit card bills.
Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it 
is referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of 
the date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had 
cause for complaint.
Any assessment of affordability here was not linked to the contract with MVCI. It took place 
when the bank set (and, possibly, changed) Mr Ws credit limit. That would have occurred 
before (and possibly a long time before) June 2011. I do not believe therefore that I have any 
power to consider that part of the complaint.
My provisional decision was therefore not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Neither party 
responded substantively to it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have not provided with any further evidence or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that set out in it. 
Neither Mr W nor the bank has said whether the credit card account is still open, so  as with 
my provisional decision  I have considered the claims under section 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on the assumption that no Limitation Act defence would be available to 
the bank. But, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think it unlikely that a court 
would make orders under those provisions. 
As far as the assessment of affordability is concerned, I have considered too whether it is 
arguable that Mr W was unaware he had cause for complaint  perhaps because he did not 
know what checks RBS should have carried out when setting or changing his credit limit. As 
I said in my provisional decision, however, I have seen no evidence to suggest that it was 
set at a level which was not affordable or that more detailed checks would have led to a 
different credit limit being approved.       My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require The Royal Bank of Scotland to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman