DRN-3428815
The complaint
Ms As complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to their withdrawal of a 
mortgage offer they had issued, which she says led her to spend £700 on a survey. Ms A 
feels this to be unfair and wants Barclays to compensate her for the lost survey fee arguing 
she would not have incurred this had it not been for the mortgage offer being issued.
What happened
On 1 April Ms A completed and submitted to Barclays an application for a mortgage though 
an independent broker. This was in respect of a leasehold property she wished to purchase. 
On the application form she confirmed there were 51 years left to run on the lease, the 
property was not situated above commercial premises and had brick walls and a tiled roof.
On receipt of the application Barclays performed an automated valuation and later issued a 
mortgage offer to Ms A. Following that, on 13 May, Ms A arranged her own survey for which 
she paid £700.
On 18 May Ms As solicitor wrote to Barclays raising certain issues in relation to the lease 
and asking them to confirm they were happy to proceed with the loan. As a result, Barclays 
decided to obtain a physical valuation of the property which confirmed (a) the property was is 
in a block constructed with concrete panels and considered to be of non-standard 
construction and (b) it was above commercial premises.
Barclays then decided in the light of this new information that the property did not meet their 
lending criteria and withdrew the mortgage offer returning to Ms A the product fee she had 
paid. Barclays considered Ms As complaint and her request for compensation in relation to 
the survey fee but rejected her complaint on the basis that it hadnt done anything wrong, 
had correctly followed its processes following the solicitors letter, and in the light of the new 
information revealed by the physical survey had been entitled to withdraw the offer as the 
property did not meet its lending criteria. 
Ms A was unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Ms A didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
The problem here stems from the incorrect completion of the mortgage application form. As 
that form contained two factually incorrect statements Barclays issued its mortgage offer 
based on incorrect information. When the correct facts were ascertained by the physical 
valuation, Barclays were entitled to reconsider the application afresh to see whether, in the 
light of the changed information, the property still met its lending criteria. In this case it didnt. 
I have no power to dictate to Barclays what their lending policy should be or to say they 
shouldnt have withdrawn the offer in those circumstances.
Ms A feels that if Barclays had wanted to carry out a physical survey on the property they 
should have done so initially rather than conducting an automated survey and agreeing to 
lend based upon that. It is because of the mortgage offer which in turn is based on the 
automated survey, that Ms A felt comfortable in paying for her own survey. I can understand 
why she is unhappy that Barclays then went on to withdraw the offer of mortgage, but had 
the correct information been disclosed at the time of application then I am satisfied Barclays 
would have applied that information against the lending criteria and declined the mortgage 
application. 
It follows that I cant find that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman