DRN-2351881
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M and Mr M have a home insurance policy with Aviva. Amongst other things, this 
covers them for loss of or damage to their personal belongings outside their home.
Miss M and Mr M say a jacket, expensive watch and money were stolen from Mr M whilst he 
was on the beach during an overseas holiday. Mr M says the watch is worth close to 
£10,000. They made a claim to Aviva.
Aviva declined Miss M and Mr Ms claim. They said there were discrepancies between what 
Mr M told them when he called to make the claim and what he later told their investigators.
Miss M and Mr M werent happy with this and made a complaint to Aviva. And when they 
maintained their stance on the claim, Miss M and Mr M brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint. She thought Aviva hadnt provided a 
satisfactory explanation to Miss M and Mr M about why the claim was declined. And she 
asked Aviva to re-consider the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that the policy covers the loss of Miss M and Mr Ms possessions 
whilst abroad. And their policy schedule includes the watch in question as a specified 
valuable item.
Aviva told Miss M and Mr M that the claim was being declined because of discrepancies in 
the information provided by Mr M. 
They said Mr M told them during the claim call that hed packed the bag for the holiday 
himself and that hed reported the incident to the hotel he was staying in and to security on 
the beach. 
When their investigators spoke to Mr M, Aviva said they were told his children had helped 
him pack his bag and that hed reported the theft to the police.
Mr M has said he took the watch on holiday by accident. It happened to be in the pocket of 
the jacket which he packed when he was preparing to leave for the holiday. Aviva told Mr M 
they found it strange that he hadnt noticed the weight of the watch in the jacket pocket.
Thats all Aviva have told Miss M and Mr M. They havent told them which policy term theyre 
applying in declining the claim. And despite our persistent requests, they havent told us that 
either.
I dont think it would be fair for Aviva to decline this claim on the basis that Mr M told them 
hed packed his bag but told the investigators his children had helped him.
Having someone help you pack your bag doesnt mean  to most people, I would suggest  
that you didnt pack it yourself. And one can see how Mr M might have represented these 
same events in slightly different words on two separate occasions. 
Its also not immediately apparent to me why its relevant who packed the bag. Mr M was 
covered for personal belongings outside his home. I cant see any restriction on where he 
went with his belongings in the policy. Hes said he accidentally took the watch  but whether 
he took it accidentally, deliberately or carelessly  and whether he packed it or his children - 
its still covered.
The question of who Mr M reported the theft to may be more relevant. There is a term in the 
policy which says the policyholder must, as soon as they become aware of an event which 
may lead to a claim, tell the police immediately.
Mr M says he tried to speak to a uniformed individual on the beach. He may have said that 
was beach security in the claim call, but on reflection hes certain it was the police. By 
Mr Ms own account, it wasnt possible to report the detail of the incident because of the 
language barrier.
Mr M says he then spoke to reception at his hotel, who said they would send someone to 
speak to him but didnt in fact do so.
Theres a term in the policy which says the policyholder must provide all reasonable 
information to Aviva when making a claim. But I dont think Aviva can say Mr M hasnt 
provided them with the information they reasonably need to assess the claim. 
And I dont think the confusion about whether the armed and uniformed individual Mr M tried 
to speak to was beach security or police is  in and of itself - enough to allow Aviva to fairly 
decline the claim on the basis Mr M hasnt provided them with a full account.
Aviva certainly havent told Mr M why they think that confusion, or discrepancy, means that 
any of the conditions or exclusions set out in the policy applies.
So, on balance, Im satisfied Aviva havent yet provided Miss M and Mr M with a justified 
explanation for why their claim has been declined, by reference to the terms of the policy. 
Putting things right
Miss M and Mr Ms policy contains a number of conditions and exclusions, as is typical for 
this kind of policy. Thats absolutely normal and perfectly reasonable. 
Its not for me to assess Miss M and Mr Ms claim and decide whether any of those terms 
justify Avivas decision to decline the claim. 
I can say whether I think the reasons Aviva have given to Miss M and Mr M so far are 
sufficient to allow Aviva to fairly decline the claim. And I dont think they are  for the reasons 
set out above. But its not for me to apply the entire terms of the policy and determine 
whether any of the conditions or exclusions might apply.
So, I agree with the position taken by our investigator. My decision is that Aviva should assess the claim again, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I hope it goes without saying that I think Aviva need to explain their decision on the claim to 
Miss M and Mr M by reference to the specific terms and conditions of the policy which they 
are applying.
I should also say that, given the information Aviva already have in hand, I can see no reason 
why there should be any undue delay in their re-assessing the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss M and Mr Ms complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must re-asses Miss M and Mr Ms claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman