DRN-2778342
The complaint
Mr I complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined his claim for storm damage 
to his roof under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr I said he awoke during storm Ciara to a strong noise and found a big 
part of his roof had flown across the road. He claimed for the damage to Aviva and Aviva 
appointed loss adjusters to deal with the claim.
Mr I said as water was entering his home he was desperate to get the repairs done. He said 
he asked Aviva if he could employ local builders to carry out repairs. He said he provided a 
quote for the work at Avivas request and some photos of the damage and it told him he 
could get the work done and it would reimburse him the cost. 
Mr I sent Aviva the costs but said it then declined his claim saying the damage wasnt storm 
related and denied telling him he could go ahead with the repairs. Mr I complained and Aviva 
told him it declined his claim as his policy excludes damage that happens gradually such as 
wear and tear. Aviva said it hadnt confirmed to Mr I at any point that it would cover his claim.
Aviva sent its loss adjuster to assess the damage at Mr Is home after the repairs had taken 
place. The loss adjusters noted internal water damage consistent water ingress. They said 
the roof work had been completed and so the damage couldnt be seen, but said Aviva 
probably had liability for the claim because of the storm.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva had failed to 
provide Mr I with information about how his claim would be progressed. And when he called 
to say he would use his own builder the loss adjuster didnt question this and only said it 
would get this closed down. She said Aviva had given Mr I to understand he could get the 
work done and it would reimburse him, and she said Aviva should now do so.
Aviva disagreed with the investigator. It said Mr I commenced the works before its loss 
adjuster could attend after it had been made clear to Mr I that the loss adjusters would deal 
with his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the records of Mr Is claim, but disappointingly theres not much 
information available for the first ten days after it was made. This is important as Mr I said he 
was unaware of the role of Avivas loss adjusters. We dont know what was explained to him 
about the various parties involved or how his claim would be progressed.
I can see that Aviva told Mr I to obtain a quote for the repair of his roof. Its normal for an 
insurer to respond to a policyholders request to move quickly on a claim to request a quote. 
This allows the insurer to see what repairs are required and the likely cost. It would be 
unusual for an insurer to authorise an estimate for several thousand pounds without having 
its loss adjuster assess the damage, as this would prevent it from seeing if all the work was 
covered by the policy and if it could carry out the work more cheaply.
In this case Aviva had passed the claim on to its loss adjusters and when Mr I called them 
he said he wanted to repair his roof quickly and had found local builders to do the work. The 
loss adjusters adviser said that was fine and he would get it closed down on their side. It 
seems clear the adviser thought that Mr I was not proceeding with his claim rather than 
proceeding with it in a way that was acceptable to Aviva.  
Mr I then asked the loss adjuster if he needed to inform Aviva further and the adviser stated, 
not normally if youre carrying out the work yourself. I think this should have prompted the 
adviser to realise that Mr I wasnt closing the claim, but it didnt. I dont agree with Aviva that 
Mr I simply carried out the works before the loss adjuster could attend or that the loss 
adjusters role was clear in that it would resolve his claim. I think the loss adjusters closed 
the claim down in error and so missed their opportunity to validate and assess Mr Is claim 
before the work was carried out.
 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Mr I was properly informed about the parties involved in 
his claim, their role or how his claim would be progressed. I think it likely that Mr I made 
arrangements to have the work carried out following some unclear advice about what was 
going to happen. I agree with the investigator that Mr I would have been unlikely to have 
carried out the repair work had he realised the requirement for the loss adjuster to validate 
his claim. It follows that I dont think Aviva has treated Mr I fairly in declining his claim in very 
difficult circumstances for him and his family. 
Avivas loss adjusters visited Mr Is home after the roof repairs had been completed. Their 
report makes no reference to gradual damage or wear and tear in fact it states that liability is 
likely to engage because of the storm conditions at the time. I cant see any reason to justify 
Aviva declining the claim for the policy exclusions it has referenced.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr Is claim for his roof repairs less any excess 
applicable in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman