DRN-4008731
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MI Vehicle Finance Limited, trading as Mann Island, wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mrs Cs 
partner is also involved in her complaint.
What happened
I issued provisional decisions on this compliant in September and November 2022. I 
described what happened in my provisional decisions as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mrs C under a hire purchase agreement with Mann 
Island that she signed in July 2020. There were some issues with the car and it was 
inspected by an independent expert in April 2021. The cars steering rack was 
replaced in July 2021 under the cars warranty but there continued to be issues with 
the car so Mrs C complained to Mann Island. It said that Mrs C hadnt provided 
evidence to show that the faults were linked to the previous repair or fault.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. A garage 
reported issues with the car and it was then inspected by another independent expert 
in April 2022. Our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be 
upheld. He felt that there was sufficient evidence that the previous repair attempts 
had failed and he thought that it was fair for Mrs C to be able to reject the car. He 
recommended that Mann Island should return Mrs Cs deposit, make necessary 
amendments to her credit file, refund 20% of her payments from April 2022 and pay 
her £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs C says that she paid £2,455.83 for a tow bar to be fitted to the car in August 
2020 and that she should receive more compensation from Mann Island. She made a 
settlement proposal to Mann Island which it didnt accept. Mann Island hasnt 
accepted or rejected our investigators recommendations (but it has referred to the 
cars MOT test in July 2021) so I have been asked to issue a decision on this 
complaint.
I said in my provisional decision in September 2022: I consider that this complaint should be 
upheld for these reasons:
Mann Island, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs C was about four years old, had been driven for 
33,174 miles and had a price of £49,995;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there were some issues with the car and Mrs Cs partner arranged for it to inspected 
by an independent expert in April 2021  the cars mileage was recorded on the 
inspection report as 42,813 miles and the report identified issues with the cars 
steering rack and said that:  taking into consideration the time and mileage since 
finance inception the fault would have been developing at that time;
the cars steering rack was replaced under warranty in July 2021 and the invoice 
recorded the cars mileage as 42,830 miles;
the car failed an MOT test later that month because a steering rack gaiter was 
missing but it was tested again later the same day and passed with a recorded 
mileage of 42,874 miles;
Mrs C says that there continued to be issues with the car so she complained to Mann 
Island and then to this service;
a garage that was working on the car in April 2022 reported: We found that the 
steering felt rough and noisy to turn either way but no free play was felt at the time of 
inspection but on closer inspection of the power steering oil it looked contaminated 
and having been told by the customer the rack has only been fitted a few months 
previously I suspect the contaminants in the oil are from the previous rack issues and 
the system hasn't been flushed and cleaned out properly causing premature wear to 
the new rack. The correct repair from here would be to replace the rack, pipes pump 
and fluid reservoir to ensure the car is in a safe road worthy condition; anything less 
would only lead to a recurrence of the current fault;
Mann Island arranged for the car to be inspected by another independent expert in 
April 2022  the inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 55,431 miles and 
said: Theres an audible noise from the steering rack when operated from lock to 
lock, there are also a number of issues which the customer has raised which are 
listed above  the engineer would not expect this issue with the vehicle only having 
covered around 13,000 miles since replacement;
the first independent inspection identified a fault with the cars steering rack which the 
inspector said would have been developing when the car was supplied to Mrs C, the 
steering rack was then replaced but a garage and a second independent inspection 
have identified continuing issues with the steering rack and the inspector said that 
the faults wouldnt be expected to have occurred so soon after it was replaced;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault with the cars steering 
rack when the car was supplied to Mrs C which caused the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality at that time  the steering rack has been replaced under warranty 
but issues with it continue;
as I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs C 
and the repair hasnt dealt with the issue, I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mann Island to allow Mrs C to reject the car and to take the actions described 
below;
Mrs C has complained about other issues with the car and the second independent 
report said that there were a number of other issues with the car but, as I consider 
that Mrs C should be able to reject the car because of the issues with the steering 
rack, I dont consider that its necessary for me to make any finding as to whether the 
other issues would have been enough to have caused the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs C;
I find that Mann Island should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Mrs C  both at no cost to her;the hire purchase agreement shows that Mrs C made an advance payment of 
£17,462.89 for the car to be supplied to her - I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Mann Island to refund to her the advance payment that she made, 
with interest;
Mrs C says that her use of the car has been limited since the ongoing issues with the 
steering rack were confirmed in April 2022 - its mileage later in April 2022 when it 
was inspected was 55,431 miles and the car passed an MOT test in August 2022 
when its mileage was recorded as 57,041 miles;
the car has passed an MOT test and was driven for about 1,600 miles between April 
and August 2022 - our investigator recommended that Mann Island should refund 
20% of Mrs Cs monthly payments under the agreement for the period from April 
2022 as compensation for her impaired use of the car and I find that to be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances - Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Mann Island to refund a larger proportion of those 
payments, or any other monthly payments, to Mrs C;
Mrs C paid £2,455.83 for a tow bar to be fitted to the car in August 2020 and the car 
was driven for nearly 24,000 miles between July 2020 (when it was supplied to her) 
and August 2022 (when it passed the MOT test) so I consider that Mrs C will have 
had considerable use from the tow bar - but the term of the hire purchase agreement 
was five years and Mrs C will be deprived of her expected use of the tow bar for at 
least the remaining term of the agreement so I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Mann Island to reimburse Mrs C for three- 
fifths of the cost of the tow bar which I calculate to be £1,474;
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mrs C and I find 
that it would also be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to pay her £100 to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience;
I understand that Mrs Cs account with Mann Island is in arrears so I find that the 
payments referred to above should be applied to her account to pay the arrears with 
the net amount then paid to Mrs C; and
I find that Mann Island should also remove any information about the hire purchase 
agreement that its recorded on Mrs Cs credit file.
In response to that provisional decision Mrs C said that she paid a total of £19,999 to the 
dealer, that she had to pay £352.50 for the car to be repaired in October 2022 and that the 
impact of this on her business and relationship hasnt been mentioned. I issued a second 
provisional decision in November 2022 in which I said:
Mrs C has provided evidence to show that she paid the dealer £1,000 in July 2020 
and £18,999 in August 2020. The invoice shows that a deposit of £1,000 was paid for 
the car by Mrs C and that the total amount due from her was £51,532.11. The hire 
purchase agreement shows that the cash price of the car was £49,995 and that 
Mrs C made an advance payment of £17,462.89. I consider that the evidence that 
shes provided shows that she made advance payments totalling £19,999 for the car 
to be supplied to her and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to 
refund to her the advance payment that she made, with interest.
Mrs C has also provided evidence to show that she paid £352.50 for work on the car 
in October 2022. The invoice refers to work on the steering and electrical issues 
about which Mrs C had complained to Mann Island. In addition to the findings that I 
set out in my provisional decision, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann 
Island to pay Mrs C £352.50 to reimburse her for cost of that work, with interest. 
I said in my provisional decision that Mrs C had clearly been caused distress and 
inconvenience and I agreed with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Mann Island to pay her £100 to compensate her for that distress and 
inconvenience. That distress and inconvenience includes the impact that these 
events have had on her business and her relationship and Im not persuaded that 
more compensation is justified in these circumstances.
Subject to any further comments or evidence from any of Mrs C, her partner and Mann 
Island, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mrs C has 
provided a detailed description of what has happened. She says that she and her partner 
now feel that they should have the choice to: send the car, that took them over a year and a 
half to find, back and receive their full deposit with any payments made whilst the car has 
been defective and a more realistic compensation amount; or keep the car, restart the 
payments from the moment this is all finalised; or instruct their solicitor to take the matter 
further.
Mann Island says that it understands that Mrs C is still using the car after having the steering 
rack replaced under the parts warranty and its had no contact with her since November 
2022. It says that her account is now over £8,000 in arrears and no payments have been 
made towards the agreement since June 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the outcome that I set out in my 
November 2022 provisional decision. For the reasons set out in my provisional decisions, I 
consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs C and the 
repair hasnt dealt with the issue so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann 
Island to allow Mrs C to reject the car and to take the actions described in my November 
2022 provisional decision. 
I said in that provisional decision that Mann Island should refund to Mrs C the advance 
payment that she made for the car, with interest. I also explained why I thought that it was 
fair and reasonable for Mann Island to: refund 20% of her monthly payments under the 
agreement for the period from April 2022 as compensation for her impaired use of the car; 
reimburse her for £1,474 of the cost of the tow bar and the repair costs of £352.50; and pay 
her £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused. I 
still consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances. 
Mrs C has had considerable use from the car and I consider that its fair and reasonable that 
she should pay for that usage, less the compensation for her impaired use referred to above. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Mann Island to refund 
to her a larger proportion of her monthly payments or the cost of the tow bar or to increase 
the amount of compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Mann Island says that Mrs Cs account is now over £8,000 in arrears and no payments have 
been made towards the agreement since June 2022. As I said in my provisional decisions, 
the payments to be made to Mrs C should be applied to her account to pay the arrears with 
the net amount then paid to Mrs C. I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Mrs C to be allowed to keep the car 
and restart her payments from the moment that all is finalised. If Mrs C doesnt accept my decision, she will be able to take other actions, including instructing her solicitor to take the 
matter further.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mann Island to take the actions described in my 
November 2022 provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I order MI Vehicle Finance Limited, 
trading as Mann Island, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs C 
 both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs C the advance payment that she made for the car.
3. Refund to Mrs C 20% of the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
for the period since April 2022 as compensation for her impaired use of the car.
4. Pay £1,474 to Mrs C to reimburse her for part of the cost of the tow bar.
5. Pay £352.50 to Mrs C to reimburse her for the cost of the work on the car in October 
2022.
6. Pay interest on the advance payment at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
7. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Mrs Cs credit file.
8. Pay £100 to Mrs C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
The payments referred to at 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 above should be applied to Mrs Cs account to 
pay the arrears with the net amount then paid to Mrs C. HM Revenue & Customs requires 
Mann Island to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to at 6 above. Mann Island 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman