DRN-3708865
The complaint
Mr R complains that a vehicle he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory condition. He wishes to reject it.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr R entered into a 50-month conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
for a used van. The van was around seven years old and had a mileage of about 112,500. 
The van was supplied with a three-month warranty.
Around the end of February 2022 Mr R says that he noticed some problems with the van as 
there were warning lights illuminating on the dashboard and its doors were difficult to open. 
He had the van inspected by another garage who provided him with a diagnostic report 
which set out a number of fault codes they had found.
Mr R contacted the supplying dealer about the van. The supplying dealer says that Mr R was 
going to go through the warranty to have issues with the van fixed.
Near the end of March 2022 Mr R made a complaint to Moneybarn about the condition of the 
van. He said there were issues with the brakes, the fuel injectors, emissions, the windows 
were not working, the speedometer was not working, the sliding door and the rear doors had  
issues shutting, there was water ingress in the load area of the van and that it was 
experiencing loss of power. He asked to reject it. 
Moneybarn arranged for the van to be independently inspected and this took place in April 
2022. The independent engineer reported that they could find no issue with the electric 
windows but had been unable to test the speedometer as the vehicle would not start and so 
no road test could be conducted. This was due to the battery being flat and, due to the way 
the van had been parked, jump leads could not be attached.
The independent engineer said that the door seals were split, and the doors needed 
adjustment. This was also the cause of the water ingress. A diagnostic interface check was 
carried out and a number of fault codes, some relating to electrical components, were 
identified.
The independent engineer said that Mr R had covered an additional 8,015 miles between the 
point of supply and the date of the inspection.  And in light of the amount of use Mr R had 
had of the van they didnt consider the reported faults would have been developing or 
present when hed acquired the vehicle.
However, as the van couldnt be started when this inspection was carried out Moneybarn 
arranged for a second one to be conducted. This was carried out in May 2022 after the 
battery had been replaced.
The second independent engineer was able to start the van and two messages were 
illuminated in the dashboard in respect of check emissions and check injection. No loss of 
power was found, the speedometer worked as did the windows. No faults were detected with 
the brakes. Four fault codes were found but the independent engineer said that the van 
drove as would be expected for its age and mileage. 
At the time of the second inspection Mr R had driven a total of 12,065 miles in it since the 
agreements inception. The independent engineer said that they didnt consider the faults 
found with the van would have been developing or present at the point of supply.
Moneybarn said that in light of the independent engineers findings it would not be upholding 
Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. He said that 
the van had been in a poor condition and disagreed that the faults hadnt been present when 
he had acquired the van. He said that the law stated if faults were found in the first six 
months then the would be treated as having been present from the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He said that due 
to the age and mileage of the van that it would be reasonable to expect that parts of the van 
had already suffered wear and tear and so there was a greater risk of repair and 
maintenance being required sooner than one which had been subject to less use.
Our investigator said he wasnt persuaded that there was anything wrong with the van other 
than expected wear and tear issues. He said that looking at the mileage undertaken by Mr R, 
then it would be reasonable to say that the faults would have developed fairly soon through 
that use and he accepted the evidence of the two inspections that they had not been 
developing or present at the point the van had been supplied to Mr R. Our investigator said 
he thought the van had been of satisfactory quality.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view. He said he obtained a report about the van two 
weeks after he had acquired it that set out the faults with the van which he disagreed had 
suddenly arisen. Mr R said under the law the van had to be faulty free and wear and tear 
were brakes and tyres not the issues that had been found with the van.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr R is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was around eight years old and had a mileage of about 112,500. So, issues 
of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. Mr R says that the report he 
obtained around two weeks after he acquired the van is evidence the van had these 
issues either developing or present at its point of supply. He also says that in law any fault 
that is found within the first six months of the contract are taken to have been present at 
the point of supply.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an assumption if a fault arises within the 
first six-months from the inception of an agreement then it was there from the point of 
supply. However, the retailer may be able to show this was not the case. Here Moneybarn 
is relying on two independent inspection reports which state that the faults with the van 
arose from wear and tear following Mr R acquiring it. Mr R says the report he obtained 
two weeks after acquiring the van contradicts the evidence provided by Moneybarn.
Looking at the diagnostic report from the garage Mr R visited, I can see this shows that 
fault codes were found and that two lights were illuminated on the dash for check 
emissions and check injector. But it doesnt provide any details about these codes nor 
does it provide any opinion as to whether these codes would have been present at the 
point of supply. Ive also seen that the first independent engineer carried out diagnostics 
and appears to have noted some different codes as were the codes noted by the second 
independent inspection. The number of codes found also differed in number from each 
inspection.
Ive also noted that some of the issues Mr R complained about with the van, such as the 
windows and speedometer, werent then found to be faulty when it was inspected. 
I dont think the diagnostic report provided by Mr R is one I can attach much weight to as 
opposed to the independent reports. The independent engineers explain in more detail 
what they found, and in the case of the May 2022 inspection, the van was taken for a test 
drive. I dont know anything about how the inspection was conducted by the garage Mr R 
used for the diagnostics. Mr Rs report doesnt provide sufficient detail as to the nature of 
any faults and thats important because some faults, such as electrical ones, are ones 
that can occur without warning and so wouldnt have been developing or present at the 
point of supply of the van. Just because the van was found to have faults when looked at 
the end of February 2022 doesnt necessarily mean these faults were present at the point 
of supply. And looking at the evidence, Im satisfied that Moneybarn has shown that the 
faults found werent present or developing at the point of supply and resulted from wear 
and tear from Mr Rs use. 
As I am accepting the independent reports provided by Moneybarn as to the condition of 
the van, I therefore need to look at whether the van was as durable as would be expected 
by a reasonable person. Ive seen the van was eight years old and had a mileage of 
112,500 so I think a reasonable person would expect maintenance and repairs to arise 
within a short period. And I think, looking at the additional mileage Mr R added to the 
vans odometer, that it is reasonable to think faults could have occurred or been 
developing by the time it was inspected at the end of February 2022 which hadnt been 
developing at the point of supply. So, I think the van was as durable as would have 
reasonably been expected.
I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr R, but Im not upholding his complaint. I 
think on the evidence I have seen that the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I also think the vehicle was reasonably durable when looking at its age and 
mileage and the use Mr R had from it when the faults arose.My final decision
For the reasons set above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman