DRN-2286561
The complaint
Mr N, on behalf of himself and his wife, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent personal 
documents relating to their joint account to the wrong address. Hed like a detailed 
explanation as to how this happened and compensation for the upset.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr N received a message from Barclays saying, Thank you for writing to 
Barclays, we are dealing with your request, and will respond within 5 working days". Mr N 
called Barclays but it couldnt explain why hed had the message. He got another message 
and again queried this with Barclays but when Barclays said it couldnt explain, he asked it to 
stop sending them. After receiving a third message he found Barclays had changed the 
address on the accounts held by him and his wife at their local branch to that of his daughter 
and son-in-law. As a result, some of his statements and other correspondence from Barclays 
had gone to this other address and one of the statements had been opened. This was a 
breach of his data security
Mr N says he had recently agreed to be a guarantor to his daughter and son-in laws 
mortgage but had made it clear that he wouldnt be living at this new address. He feels 
Barclays has breached his data security and is concerned that it hasnt been able to properly 
explain why it happened. Hes also unhappy that Barclays initially said the change had been 
requested by him or his wife when that wasnt correct and that, even after hed instructed it 
to change the address back to the correct one, it failed to do so and had sent further 
documents to the wrong address.
Although this hadnt caused him an actual financial loss, it had caused significant 
inconvenience and worry at a time when he was recovering from a serious health problem. 
He wanted an explanation and reassurance this wouldnt happen again as well as a review 
of the compensation offered by the bank.
Barclays said the problem seemed to be caused by the mortgage application form that 
showed Mr N as an applicant rather than a guarantor. As a result, when the mortgage had 
been completed, his address had automatically been changed to this new one and that had 
affected all accounts linked to him at this branch. It said it had raised this internally as a 
breach. It also agreed that when Mr N contacted the bank to ask about the messages, and 
later to ask for his address to be put back to the correct one, he hadnt had the service he 
was entitled to expect.  It apologised and offered him £450 compensation.
Our investigator agreed that thered been a mistake by the bank in changing Mr Ns address 
and that it hadnt acted as quickly as it could have done to put matters right once it had been 
told about the problem. However, the address was corrected in January 2020 and the 
problem appeared to have been solved. In the circumstances he felt £450 was fair for the 
distress and upset Mr N had had and, for that reason, he wouldnt be asking Barclays to do 
anything more.
Mr N disagreed and said he didnt feel the breach of data security had been fully considered 
or the failure by Barclays to act on his and his wifes instructions. Her asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that this complaint relates to a joint account held by Mr N and his wife but that the 
complaint is being brought by Mr N. For that reason, I will only refer to Mr N in my decision 
although the decision does of course apply to both account holders.
I should also explain that in the absence of any clear information on any particular point or 
where the information available is incomplete or disputed, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words whats more likely than not to have happened.
I can understand why Mr N was so concerned to find that personal documents relating his 
joint account had been sent to the wrong address and that by mistake one of those 
documents was opened. However, its not my role to make a decision as to whether there 
has been a specific breach of the relevant data security regulations as thats a matter for the 
Information Commissioners Office. My role is to consider whether Barclays made a mistake 
in its handling of Mr Ns account and, if so, how best to put matters right. 
I can also understand Mr Ns frustration that when he first contacted Barclays about the text 
messages, it wasnt able to tell him why this had happened or take any action to prevent 
them re-occurring. If it had, then it may be that the issue could have been resolved at that 
stage, Unfortunately it wasnt and the bank went on to make the change to Mr and Mrs Ns 
account details and to send the statements on their account to this new address.
Ive seen Barclays says the problem was an automated internal request which may have 
been caused by the mortgage application form, which Mr N had completed along with his 
daughter and son in law and which appeared to show Mr N as an applicant rather than 
guarantor. Ive reviewed this form and Id agree its not clear in precisely what capacity Mr N 
was involved and for that reason I think its possible this may have caused the mistake. And 
thats supported by the fact that the statements were sent to this new address, which was 
linked to Mr N through this application.
I know Mr N would like a more detailed explanation but Barclays has said that its reported 
what happened as a breach internally and is dealing with it. I think thats reasonable and for 
that reason, I wont be asking it to share more information about its internal processes with 
Mr N.
However, once Barclays was aware there was a problem I dont consider that it acted as 
quickly as it could have done to put matters right. The change of address wasnt corrected 
until 20 January 2020 and in the meantime statements continued to be sent to the wrong 
address. I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr N and why he felt so disappointed at the 
service he received.
I note Barclays has accepted this. Its apologised and offered Mr N £450 compensation for 
the upset hes had. Mr N, however, doesnt consider this to be sufficient to reflect the impact 
on him and his wife. In this case there was no actual financial loss so the question is whether the compensation 
offered by Barclays is enough. Theres no precise way of calculating such awards but Ive 
taken into account the impact on Mr and Mrs N at this time. Having done so I consider that 
£450 is fair and reasonable and in line with what Id have awarded for a complaint of this 
type. I note Barclays has said that its offer is still open for Mr N to accept and, if he wishes to 
do so, Id ask Mr N to contact Barclays direct
I realise that this isnt the decision Mr N was hoping for but for the reasons set out above, I 
consider that Barclays has dealt with the complaint fairly. I wont, therefore, be asking it to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman