DRN-3290566
The complaint
Mr G complains that the loans he had from Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
Moneyboat) were unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr G had four loans from Moneyboat between September 2020 and October 2021 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 1 Sep 2020 £800 121d £314.15 31 Dec 2020 14 Jan 2021
2 2 Feb 2021 £850 115d £326.04 28 May 2021 On time
3 1 Jul 2021 £1,000 105d £356.58 14 Oct 2021 30 Sep 2021
4 1 Oct 2021 £850 122d £334.42 31 Jan 2022 1 Dec 2021
Mr G says if Moneyboat had carried out better checks it would not have lent him the money. 
He says he had existing short-term loans and he was using one loan to repay another, 
leaving him in a worse financial situation. Mr G adds that he had a gambling addiction and 
that if Moneyboat had done better checks it would have seen clear evidence of that.
Moneyboat says it checked Mr Gs credit file and there was no evidence of financial difficulty. 
It says it also asked Mr G to provide figures for his income and expenditure and they showed 
the repayments to be affordable, even after adjustments were made based on its other 
checks. Moneyboat adds that Mr G did not choose the maximum term for the loans and so 
committed to higher payments which would have made little sense if he couldnt afford them. 
It says Mr G also repaid loans early and that it was never made aware of any financial 
difficulties, including gambling. Moneyboat said it was satisfied its checks were proportionate 
and its lending was not irresponsible.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayments were 
unsustainable.
Mr G responded to say, in summary, that if Moneyboat had looked at his bank statements it 
would have seen he had a gambling addiction. He adds that he has had similar cases 
upheld by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loan 1
When Mr G applied for this loan, Moneyboat verified his income, asked him about his 
expenditure and carried out a credit check.These checks showed:
Mr Gs income the previous month was almost £3,300;
His declared expenditure, including a figure of £60 for credit, was £1,070;
He had 13 active credit accounts:
oFive of these were bank accounts with no overdrafts;
oThree were credit card accounts with a combined balance of £474 and a total 
limit of £550;
oTwo loans and a car finance account were being repaid well, although the 
total monthly commitment was £775;
oA short-term loan which had been taken out in March 2020 was in arrears. 
The scheduled monthly repayments were £296, but the account status 
indicated the account was being queried;
oA credit card account that was defaulted in June 2017 and was with a debt 
collection agency with a balance of £350;
Mr G had one further defaulted account - a bank account had defaulted in November 
2016 but was satisfied in November 2018.
As this loan was Mr Gs first and the repayments were less than 10% of his verified income, 
Im satisfied these checks went far enough. Although there were some negative entries on 
Mr Gs credit file, and hed significantly understated his existing credit commitments, I cant 
see there was anything in the available information that should have indicated to Moneyboat 
that the repayments were unaffordable on loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr G repaid loan 1 two weeks late but explained that hed been ill, and his income was lower 
as a result. He applied for his second loan almost three weeks later and it was for a similar 
amount, with similar repayments. Moneyboat carried out the same checks again and found:
Mr Gs income was around £3,100;
His declared expenditure, including a figure of £60 for credit, was £1,100;
He had 10 active credit accounts:
oFive of these were the bank accounts with no overdrafts;
oThe three credit card accounts now had a combined balance of £488;
oThe two loans had been settled and he continued to pay £325 per month on 
time towards the car finance account;
oThe short-term loan continued to be queried;
oThe defaulted credit card account had also been settled;
Moneyboat had adjusted Mr Gs expenditure up by £63, although this was not enough to 
take into account the entries on his credit file. Either way, the loan repayments were just 
over 10% of Mr Gs income and the checks indicated they were affordable to him. As Mr Gs 
credit file also showed an improving picture, Im again satisfied Moneyboats checks were 
proportionate and there was no information to suggest the repayments were unsustainable.
Loan 3Mr G repaid loan 2 on time and it was over a month before he applied for a further loan. This 
time it was for slightly more money and the repayments were slightly higher. Mr Gs credit 
profile had improved again and it now showed hed settled the queried account and his credit 
cards all had a zero balance. A further defaulted account had appeared on his credit file, but 
this was from four years earlier.
The checks again showed the loan repayments were affordable to Mr G and there was 
nothing to indicate he was struggling financially, or that further checks were required. So I 
cant conclude Moneyboat made an unfair lending decision for loan 3.
Loan 4
Mr G repaid loan 3 early but applied for his fourth loan the next day. Moneyboat had carried 
out the same checks again, but this time I consider it should have gone further. I say that 
because:
This was Mr Gs fourth loan in just over a year which might be an indication he was 
becoming dependent on the lending;
There was no gap between repaying loan 3 and applying for loan 4;
Mr G was making very limited repayments to the defaulted account;
Mr G now had four credit card accounts and the combined balance was now £900;
Mr G had taken out four cash advances from three of his credit cards in July 2021.
Although Mr Gs most recent payslip showed an income of £4,200, I consider there were 
clear indications that Mr G might be struggling to manage his money and that further checks 
were required before approving additional lending. In this case, I consider Moneyboat should 
have found out whether Mr G had additional short-term loans that may not have been 
recorded on his credit file.
Ive had a look at Mr Gs bank statements from the time and I can see that he did take out a 
short-term loan in September 2021 that wasnt yet showing on his credit file, but I cant see 
there was enough evidence to show that the repayments on loan 4 were unsustainable.
So I find that, even if Moneyboat had carried out proportionate checks for loan 4, it was 
unlikely to have declined the loan application and, therefore, it made a fair lending decision. 
I acknowledge Mr G says Moneyboat would have seen his gambling addiction if it had 
looked at his bank statements, but a lender is not obliged to request that information for all 
lending decisions. In this case, I dont find it would have been proportionate for Moneyboat to 
request the level of information that was needed to show the gambling transactions.
I also accept that this service has upheld similar complaints from Mr G about other lenders. 
Whilst this is the case, we must consider every case on its individual merits and, indeed, in 
the two cases he cites, the lending was taking place over different periods of time so the 
circumstances were unlikely to be the same.
So, in summary, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman