DRN-3492957
The complaint
Mr O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2018, Mr O was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr O decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In July 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Os behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr O to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced once or twice during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500 each 
time).
The CMC also said:
it was never explained that the system would deteriorate over time and generate less 
energy;
P had not given Mr O a copy of its quote until after the system was installed, and 
instead had left him with two pages of handwritten figures which were misleading and 
which it said were more generous than the figures in the actual quote; and
in 2020 Mr O noticed a leak in his roof, which he believes was caused during the 
installation of the system, although he does not know when the leak started.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr O, or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr O and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had not taken the handwritten pages into account;
the adjudicator had given too much weight to the quote;
Mr O could have afforded to pay for the system without taking a loan, and had only 
been persuaded to take the loan because he had been assured that the system 
would make enough money to cover the loan payments from the start;
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook has denied doing this, and I have seen no evidence to show that 
this is the case.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr O says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation, and two pages of 
handwritten figures. Ive considered these, along with Mr Os testimony and recollection of 
the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this document formed a central part of the sales process and that Ps 
salesman would have discussed this in detail with Mr O, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Mr O denies seeing the quote until after the system was installed, 17 days later. But I dont 
think its likely or plausible that Mr O simply took the salesmans word for it when he was told 
that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-
bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see something 
to that effect in writing (other than some scribbled notes). Its more likely that Mr O has 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the three and a half years between the sale and the 
bringing of his claim. And it appears to have been signed by Mr O, on pages 11 and 24, and 
dated on the same day as the sales meeting. I think it is more likely than not that this is his 
signature, and that it was signed on that date. So on the balance of probabilities, I am 
satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr O agreed to 
enter into the contract, and I accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. 
Therefore Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Os version of events, when considering 
if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
There are also two pages of handwritten notes, consisting of a few figures. But it is not clear 
what these figures are supposed to refer to, and I do not think there are any conclusions 
which can safely or reasonably be drawn from them  other than that these notes could not 
possibly have reassured a prospective customer that the system would pay for itself, or have 
been viewed as a satisfactory alternative to seeing the actual quote. Save for that 
observation, I attach no weight to them.
Leak in the roof
I have seen no evidence to support the allegation that the installation of the solar panels 
caused the leak in the roof, or even that there is a leak at all. It is not even known when the 
leak started. I do not uphold this complaint point.
FIT payments and savings
Mr O has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Os recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr O could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr O could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £167.52, which results in an average monthly income of £13.96. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £88.13. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr O was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr O could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £158.40 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr O, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £389.28. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused mainly on the table for 120 months, as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr O entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £99.64. (This figure is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £99.59. But the difference  5p  is too small 
to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £99.64, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives 
a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make 
enough money to cover the loan payments.
(The 180-months table has been highlighted, so I have considered that too, in case it was 
discussed. But it also shows that the system would never make enough money to cover the 
loan repayments during a 15-year loan term.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr O could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr O wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Os version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding and system deterioration
Ill now consider whether P told Mr O that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 5p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments figure). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr O, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr O was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in a large font that it would take 15 years for the 
overall benefits that Mr O could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 15-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This also shows that during year 15 the overall benefits that Mr O could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,347.50.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 25 at 91.2%. So Im satisfied that the quote did take into account 
that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would have been factored into the 
table, and into the quote generally.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr O that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 15 years, as supported by the graphic and the table above, which were included in 
the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 49 years for the system to pay for 
itself, when the cost of the loan is taken into account. So Ive gone on to consider the 
performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr O.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,643 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Os FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,585 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (97.8%), so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr O has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr O hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr O could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr O entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told [consumer] that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but 
that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr O to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman