DRN-4351128
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a credit card Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco 
Bank) provided to him. 
He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided before its credit limit was increased as it 
should have been clear from his credit file that any lending was inappropriate.
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr D with a credit card with an initial limit of £250 in October 2021.      
The credit limit on Mr Ds account was increased to £600 in April 2022. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Tesco Bank had told us. And he thought 
Tesco Bank hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card. 
So he didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mr D could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mr Ds initial application and then increased his credit limit 
after it obtained information on his income and carried out a credit search. And the 
information obtained indicated that Mr D would be able to make the low initial, as well as the 
increased, monthly repayment due on this credit card. On the other hand Mr D says that he 
had a poor credit file and shouldnt have been lent to under any circumstances.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr D was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Tesco Bank was initially required to understand whether a credit 
limit of £250 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A 
credit limit of £250 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Ive also seen records of the information Tesco Bank obtained from Mr D about his income 
and what was on the credit search carried out. This information doesnt indicate to me that 
Tesco Bank ought to have realised that Mr D didnt have the funds to make the low monthly 
payment that would be required for this credit card. 
Mr D says that he had previous repayment difficulties  in the form of defaults and a County 
Court Judgment recorded against him - at the time of his application and when he was 
offered the increase. I accept that this is the case. But I dont think that these issues in 
themselves meant that Mr D shouldnt have been lent to. In my view, what this meant that 
was that Tesco Bank needed to take more caution which it did do by offering a very low 
initial limit.
Furthermore by April 2022, Mr D was already showing indications of having the funds to 
make the payments to an increased credit limit. For example, hed made repayments of over 
£100 in April 2022. This not only reduced what he owed to less than half of his existing limit 
but payments of this amount suggested that he may have had well in excess of what hed 
need to pay to repay £600 within a reasonable period of time.
Given the low amount being lent here and the credit searches Tesco Bank carried out not 
showing that Mr D shouldnt be lent to in any circumstances in the way he suggests, I dont 
think that Tesco Bank needed to further verify what was in the information it had before 
lending. I do accept that Mr D says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse 
than what the information Tesco Bank obtained showed. Im sorry that to hear that Mr D has 
struggled to make his payments. 
That said, Tesco Bank would not know this might have happened when making its lending 
decision. There wasnt anything to indicate this in the information provided at the of the initial 
application and Mr D didnt have an increased amount of adverse information by the time of 
the limit increase either, to suggest that Mr D couldnt repay this credit card.
Equally, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that Tesco Bank had, 
including Mr Ds existing indebtedness bearing in mind his declared income, which meant it 
shouldve asked Mr D to provide supporting evidence, particularly given the payments he 
made in the period between October 2021 and April 2022. Im also mindful that given Mr D 
was only ever provided with the ability to spend £600. So its unlikely that Tesco Bank ought 
to have realised that there was a risk it might have been increasing Mr Ds unsustainably 
either.  
Overall while I can understand Mr Ds sentiments and Im sorry to hear about his situation, I 
dont think that Tesco Bank treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with 
his credit card, or increasing his credit limit. It carried out proportionate checks before 
providing him with his card and increasing his credit limit and reasonably relied on the 
information provided which suggested that the facility was affordable for Mr D. 
Consequently Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman