DRN-2533392
The complaint
Mr C complains about how his call with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) on 13 February 2020 was handled.
What happened
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. Having listened to the call he 
concluded that BPF had done nothing wrong.
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Cs complaint 
about how his call with BPF on 13 February 2020 was handled. Im not considering any 
other complaint Mr C might have including, but not restricted to, how other calls were 
handled by BPF or the content of letters sent to him by BPF.
Like the investigator Ive listened to the call of 13 February 2020.
Its clear that towards the end of this call Mr C became very upset and anxious, but I cant 
see that was as a result of anything BPFs representative did or failed to do. Im also 
satisfied that at no time did the representative raise her voice, talk over Mr C, or suggest 
how he should manage his finances. I also think its worth pointing out the representative 
acknowledged Mr Cs anxiety very early on in the call and later suggested a note to this 
effect be added to his customer profile. Finally, Im also satisfied that once Mr C started to 
show outward signs of anxiety the representative did her best to try and reassure him and 
she also asked if he wanted to break and take a drink of water.
I know Mr C will be disappointed. But given what I say above I can confirm that Ive come to 
the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons, that is BPF did nothing 
wrong in its handling of Mr Cs call of 13 February 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
