DRN-3226890
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and 
their failure to submit her claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) before the 
PPI deadline.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs W instructed QFL to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against lender B on 
her behalf. Lender B responded initially stating they were unable to find any PPI on her 
accounts. QFL requested Mrs W provide them with any evidence she had of accounts 
containing PPI and this evidence sent by Mrs W was received by QFL on 10 August.
QFL then requested a new letter of authority (LOA) from Mrs W, which she signed alongside 
a PPI questionnaire in September 2019. QFL submitted a PPI claim to lender B the same 
month. But in January 2020, lender B rejected Mrs Ws claim saying it had been submitted 
after the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Mrs W forwarded lender Bs response to QFL and 
she was asked to complete another PPI questionnaire. But no further action was taken and 
Mrs W chased QFL for updates without a meaningful response.
In August 2021, QFL wrote to Mrs W stating she shouldve received a response from lender 
B and that her claim had been settled. But she hadnt received this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Mrs W was unhappy with how long her claim had taken without a successful conclusion. And 
Mrs was unhappy that each time shed chased QFL, she received the same update which 
turned out to be incorrect. So, she wanted to be compensated for the upset this had caused 
her as well as her loss of opportunity to submit a PPI claim. QFL didnt respond within the 
eight-week time period they are afforded, so Mrs W referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought QFL had failed to 
submit Mrs Ws PPI claim before the PPI deadline and so, Mrs W had lost her opportunity for 
her claim to be considered. They also thought QFL had failed to provide Mrs W with the 
correct information when she sought updates which had elongated the claim process for a 
significant amount of time. And in doing so, prevented Mrs W from being able to refer her 
complaint about lender B and the mis-sold PPI to the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, 
considering this, and the fact Mrs W was able to evidence there was PPI attached to her 
accounts, she thought QFL should pay Mrs W £500 to recognise their errors.
After our investigator provided their view, QFL issued their response to Mrs Ws complaint to 
Mrs W directly. And within this, they accepted theyd given her incorrect information when 
updating her. And they recognised they had failed to submit Mrs Ws claim in time. To 
recognise this, they offered to submit a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) claim to 
lender B on Mrs Ws behalf free of charge to determine whether the claim could still be 
raised. But Mrs W remained unhappy with this.
And QFL didnt agree with our investigators view. They thought their offer of submitted a 
DSAR free of charge was fair as without this, it wasnt able to be determined whether Mrs 
Ws PPI was mis-sold. So, they didnt think compensation should be considered till after this. 
And even so, they thought the £500 recommended was too high and failed to fall in line with 
our services usual approach. As QFL didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
In QFLs response to Mrs Ws complaint, sent after our investigators initial view in December 
2021, theyve accepted they failed to submit Mrs Ws complaint in time. And theyve 
accepted they provided Mrs W with incorrect information when updating her after January 
2020, as their system wasnt noted correctly. As these errors arent in dispute, I dont intend 
to discuss them any further as QFLs acceptance of these errors satisfies me they acted 
unfairly. 
Instead, my decision focuses on what I think QFL should do to put things right as Im aware 
QFL didnt agree with the recommendation proposed by our investigator.
Putting things right
When considering what I think QFL should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mrs W back in the position she wouldve been, had QFL acted 
fairly in the first place. But the award or direction must not place Mrs W in a position of 
betterment as this decision must remain fair to both parties.
In this situation, its not disputed that Mrs W has lost an opportunity for her claims for mis-
sold PPI to be considered by lender B. And I think this wouldve been upsetting for her. Ive 
also seen evidence that shows Mrs Ws account had PPI attached to them so I can 
understand why she believes these claims wouldve been successful. So, I can understand 
why Mrs W may argue that QFL should pay her the amount she was likely to have received 
from these claims.
But I must also consider the fact that, even though PPI was present on the accounts, this 
doesnt necessarily mean it was mis-sold. And as the claims werent considered by lender B, 
Im unable to speculate whether the claims wouldve been upheld or not. So, Im unable to 
direct QFL to pay Mrs W what she may have received from a successful claim, as shed be 
placed in a better position if those claims were upheld. So, I think QFL should compensate 
Mrs W for the loss of opportunity and the emotional impact and upset this had.
QFL have explained our usual award for this type of complaint would be around £250 and 
this isnt incorrect. But just because our usual award is for around this amount, doesnt mean 
every complaint should be decided the same. Each complaint is decided on his own merits 
and individual circumstances.
And in this situation, Ive seen Mrs W forwarded lender Bs letter to QFL explaining the claim 
was out of time which QFL accept they didnt process correctly. Within this letter, lender B 
advised Mrs W she had six months to refer her complaint about lender B and their selling of 
PPI to the Financial Ombudsman Service if she wished to do so. And I think she referred this letter to QFL for their expert advice on how to progress. By failing to process this letter 
correctly, I think QFL prevented Mrs W from pursuing that complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So, I think Mrs W lost two opportunities, not one.
And QFL have accepted they mis-advised Mrs W on several occasions when she chased 
them for updates, leading Mrs W to believe her claim was still ongoing for an extended 
period of time. I think this wouldve been inconvenient for Mrs W as she was chasing QFL for 
updates on a claim that had ended. And I think this wouldve made it even more upsetting for 
Mrs W when she realised her claim hadnt been successful such a long period of time 
before.
So, considering this additional impact to Mrs Ws original loss of opportunity for the original 
PPI claims, I think QFL should pay Mrs W more than the £250 they think is our usual 
approach. Our investigator recommended QFL pay £500 and I think this offer is a fair one 
and in line with what I wouldve recommended, had it not already been put forward.
I think it takes into consideration Mrs Ws additional loss of opportunity and the number of 
times QFL provided her with incorrect information, leading the extended delays in the 
conclusion of her claim. So, I think QFL should pay Mrs W £500 to recognise the impact their 
errors have caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Quickly Finance Limited, 
trading as Fast Track Reclaim and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs W £500 to recognise her loss of opportunity and the upset their failures 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman