DRN-3632745
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. He says he was the victim of fraud and finds it unbelievable that HSBC just 
wont listen to him.
Background
In January 2022, Mr S account received credits of £3,093.99, £1,707.45, £2,978.79 and 
£2,176.59. The vast majority of the funds were immediately transferred out to a crypto-
currency account. HSBC subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank 
which sent all of the payments to Mr S account stating that the sender of the funds had 
reported being a victim of fraud. HSBC reviewed Mr S account. As a result of its 
investigation, HSBC decided to close Mr S account and also record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Mr S complained. HSBC looked at Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in January 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr S told HSBC that he didnt know 
anything about the activity on his account. He said he believed he was the victim of identity 
fraud as hed had a number of accounts closed. He believed that this might have been done 
after he attempted to sell a bike over the internet and another of his accounts ended up 
being blocked. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said and its still not entirely clear to me what hes now 
saying happened. But, in truth, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows that Mr S was 
more likely than not complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S HSBC account was hacked  especially as Mr S 
emails wont have contained all of the information needed to access his account. Indeed, it 
looks as though Mr S account was being used normally right up until the activity in question 
and I dont think the fact that it took two attempts to access Mr S account, in itself, clearly 
demonstrates that someone else managed to gain access.
Furthermore, even if I take what Mr S says at its strongest, there are still a number of 
irreconcilable discrepancies.  Firstly, while Mr S says he knows nothing about the transfers 
to the crypto-currency account. Payments were being sent to this provider from well before 
the fraud took place. 
Given Mr S was accessing the account and making his own payments after this, I would 
have expected him to have seen and have disputed the transactions if he genuinely had no 
knowledge of them. Equally, it would have been odd for an opportunistic third-party 
fraudster, who had surreptitiously gained access to Mr S account, to have waited such a 
period, after the initial transfers, before carrying out the activity given the increased risk of 
any account compromise being discovered. 
Im afraid the glaring inconsistencies coupled with the implausibility of Mr S version of 
events, means I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I 
think its more likely than not that he was complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place 
on his account. So I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr S and Im not upholding 
this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope Mr S will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman