DRN-3051672
The complaint
 Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing his 
overdraft limit and that changes to its overdraft pricing structure caused him financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
 Mr S complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly when lending to him and that its 
charges caused him financial difficulty. An ombudsman has previously issued a decision 
saying we can look at Mr Ss complaint about irresponsible lending from October 2013. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr S was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint 
to our service.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty by 5 July 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Ss overdraft limit on 5 July 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr S was 
in no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr S was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests that overdrafts are 
for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. And the 
information Lloyds had showed Mr S was taking out loans to clear the overdraft. So I think 
that Mr Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr S wasnt 
using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ss overdraft usage and instead increased Mr Ss limit and 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 5 July 2014 are removed.
AND
It is unclear whether Lloyds has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a 
third-party debt purchaser, or asked a third-party to collect the balance on its 
behalf. But if Lloyds has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-
party debt purchaser, it will need to either buy the account back from the third-
party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in 
order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr S an amount to ensure 
that it fully complies with this direction.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman