DRN-2933320
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to trace his account and hasnt 
paid him the account balance.
What happened
Mr G says he found a Barclays account statement from 1978 which showed a balance of 
£9.64. He says Barclays hasnt found the account and hasnt paid him his money. Mr G says 
he wants an apology and says the account shouldnt have been closed without notice.
Barclays says it doesnt have a record of the account and has checked its dormancy 
register. It doesnt accept making a mistake and says it doesnt keep records going back to 
1978.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think it reasonable to expect Barclays to keep records going back 40 years. And thought 
Barclays had fairly tried to locate the account. The investigator thought it likely the account 
had been closed.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and says he couldnt have withdrawn the money as there is a 
£10 minimum withdrawal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
Banks and building societies are not obliged to keep records going back as in this case over 
40 years. But equally an account cant be closed with a balance in it and if an account isnt 
used then it becomes dormant with a record kept of it. I have looked at Mr Gs account 
statement and can see there was a balance of just over £9 in the account in 1978. Im 
satisfied that Barclays has searched its records and its dormancy register but without a 
trace. So, I think on balance it more likely that Mr G closed the account over the last 40 
years and the balance was withdrawn. 
Im satisfied that Barclays has done what I would have expected of it by trying to trace the 
account and I dont think Barclays would have closed the account if it was in credit.
I appreciate Mr G says the account couldnt have been closed as there is a minimum 
withdrawal amount of £10. But I cant see any reason why that would have prevented an 
account being closed and it may be Mr G is referring to a debit card withdrawal using an 
ATM. I think it likely that any account can be closed within a branch for example and the 
balance paid to a customer.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr G doesnt have an open Barclays account and that it likely the 
account was closed with the balance repaid to Mr G some years ago.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman