DRN-4024093
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a Homeplan they were sold by Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax (BoS). They believe the policy was mis-sold as they were told that it 
would repay their mortgage and give them a lump sum on top, but it has matured with a 
shortfall.
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs S took out their Homeplan to protect and repay their mortgage with BoS. 
The Homeplan consists of two linked individual savings accounts (ISA) with associated 
protection benefits. The amount of the mortgage and the target value of the Homeplan was 
£150,000 over a term of 31 years. 
In 2020 Mr and Mrs S were informed the Homeplan was expected to fall short of the amount 
they need to repay their mortgage. Having done some research on the fund their plan was 
invested in; they came to the conclusion that it had been badly managed and had performed 
badly when compared with benchmark funds. They complained.
BoS upheld the complaint. It concluded that the plan had not been appropriate for Mr and 
Mrs S at the time it was sold to them. In line with the regulators guidance for such cases, it 
compared the position Mr and Mrs S were in with the position they should have been in, had 
they been recommended a suitable repayment mortgage. This calculation determined that 
they had suffered a loss of £7,454.83 as at 5 December 2022. This amount was paid to Mr 
and Mrs S. In addition, BoS confirmed that if they wanted to convert their mortgage to a 
repayment basis, it would usually cover the costs charged by their mortgage lender to do so 
and compensate for any higher costs of a new protection policy due to their age or any 
deterioration in their health.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with the amount of redress as it meant that they would still 
have a balance of almost £64,000 with only eight years left on the mortgage term. They were 
not persuaded that the Homeplan will grow sufficiently to repay the mortgage at the end of 
the term and believe they might have up to a £44,000 shortfall. They asked this service to 
consider the complaint.
One of our investigators did so, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. She confirmed 
that BoS had calculated Mr and Mrs S loss as we would expect it to, and the redress offered 
was appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view. They said that they didnt think the 
investigator had considered the poor performance of the funds the Homeplan had invested 
in or the distress that this had caused them and would continue to cause them. They 
maintained that they had not been adequately compensated and were worse off by having 
been mis-sold the Homeplan, as their mortgage would not be repaid at the end of the term 
when the plan matures. They set out the position they believed they would be in, had they 
had a repayment mortgage.
Our investigator considered the points that Mr and Mrs S had made, but she remained 
satisfied that the redress calculation was the appropriate one in the circumstances. She 
pointed out that it was Mr and Mrs S decision whether to keep the inappropriate Homeplan, 
and accept the associated risks going forward, or change to a repayment mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S again responded with comment about the performance of the Homeplan. They 
also said that they were unable to change to a repayment mortgage because of penalties 
associated with doing so. In addition, they told us that they had changed ISA providers so 
they could choose a fund they were happy with, but this meant they no longer had life cover 
to protect the mortgage.
The investigator then drew Mr and Mrs S attention to the information contained with the final 
response letter in December 2022 about the costs associated with changing to a repayment 
mortgage. As such, she remained satisfied that BoS offer of redress was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS has accepted that the Homeplan was not appropriate for Mr and Mrs S at the time it 
was sold to them, so I dont need to consider whether there is any merit in their complaint. In 
this case, the dispute is about the redress that should be paid to Mr and Mrs S. 
In the late 1990s concerns started being raised about potential widespread mis-selling of 
mortgage endowments. This resulted in the regulator setting out how redress for a consumer 
who had been mis-sold a mortgage endowment should be calculated. This approach to 
redress has subsequently been adopted for all types of investment-backed mortgage 
repayment vehicles. I am satisfied that it is the appropriate one to calculate the redress in 
this case. The method of calculation essentially compares the position the consumer is in at 
the date of the calculation, with the position they would have been in had they taken a 
repayment mortgage. 
The calculation comprises of two parts and was completed on 5 December 2022. The first 
being the capital position  how much would have been paid off the mortgage on a 
repayment basis compared with the value of the investment. In this case, this shows that 
Mr and Mrs S would have paid £93,724.52 off their mortgage if theyd had a repayment 
mortgage. At that time the Homeplan surrender value was £86,287.95, which meant that 
Mr and Mrs S were in a financially worse position than if theyd had a repayment mortgage; 
by £7,436.57. BoS paid Mr and Mrs S this amount plus simple interest at 8% per annum to 
the date of settlement.
The second part of the calculation is a comparison of costs  how much the repayment 
mortgage would have cost when compared to how much the ISA mortgage had actually 
cost. This showed that Mr and Mrs S had saved money by having the ISA mortgage, as the 
repayment mortgage would have cost them over £31,000 more. While this showed that 
theyd gained on the outgoings, as Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have known that they were saving 
this amount and it would have been spent on normal outgoings, BoS ignored this gain for the 
purposes of the calculation. 
Having reviewed the method of calculation, I am satisfied that BoS calculated Mr and Mrs S 
loss by an appropriate method. I have also seen nothing in the data input into the calculation 
that would lead me to believe it didnt calculate the loss correctly. I am also satisfied that, in 
the event that Mr and Mrs S decide to convert their mortgage to the repayment basis they 
should always have had, BoS has confirmed that it will compensate them for the costs associated with doing so, including the added expense of replacing their protection benefits. 
Mr and Mrs S have commented about the amount of redress, as when the value of the 
Homeplan and the redress are taken into account, they will still need to find a considerable 
amount to clear their mortgage. They arent persuaded that the Homeplan will do this. In 
addition, they havent been compensated for the additional lump sum they believed theyd 
receive. 
As our investigator explained, if Mr and Mrs S decide to maintain their mortgage on an 
interest-only basis with the Homeplan, or an alternative, as the repayment vehicle, they 
would be deemed to be accepting the risk associated going forward. As such, they would not 
be eligible for any compensation for future losses that resulted from that decision, either 
financial or non-financial. We would also not require a compensation to be paid simply 
because of poor fund performance. As for the additional lump sum they believed they would 
receive, that was never something the Homeplan guaranteed would happen and so 
compensation cannot reasonably take that concept into account. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S wont be happy with this decision, but I am satisfied that BoS has 
adequately compensated them for the loss they have suffered by being sold an inappropriate 
mortgage repayment vehicle. In addition, it has offered to compensate them for any 
reasonable additional losses they incur if they convert their mortgage to a repayment basis. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman