DRN-4043169
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Marsh Finance Ltd, who Ill call Marsh.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr W has been represented by his mother during this complaint, but as the finance 
agreement is in Mr Ws sole name, and for convenience, Ill refer only to him in this decision. 
I mean no disrespect to his representative when doing so.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I think Marsh have now made a fair offer to settle this 
complaint and Im not asking them to do any more. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Theres no longer a dispute that this car was of unsatisfactory quality. Since the complaint 
was referred to this service an independent inspection has been commissioned by Marsh. 
The inspector confirmed that the oil leaks were likely to be present when the car was 
supplied to Mr W and Marsh therefore agreed to take the car back and to end the finance 
agreement. Theyve now agreed to refund two of the four finance instalments that Mr W paid 
and to provide £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience thats been caused. 
Mr W paid £60 for a report into the condition of the car and Marsh have also agreed to 
refund that.
Whilst its fair that Mr W receives a refund of instalments for the lack of use of the car he was 
financing, its also fair for him to pay for the use hes had. Here, Mr W disputes he travelled 
over 4,500 miles in the car from inception of the deal at the end of August 2022 until the date 
of the independent inspection October 2022. He says the mileage recorded at the start of the 
agreement must have been wrong and was more like 70,000 miles than 67,000. Ive had a 
look at the mileage recorded on the MOTs but that doesnt help to establish if there was an 
error in the initial mileage, as the MOT was completed six months before the car was 
supplied to Mr W. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr W would have completed over 4,500 
miles in the car, but its not possible to say how much he completed. I think Marshs position 
is fair on how much to retain for fair use. I think it would be fair for Mr W to pay two monthly 
instalments for the use hes had from the vehicle and for Marsh to refund the rest, with 
interest as Mr W has been deprived of that money. Marsh can deduct anything theyve 
already refunded.
Marsh should refund the £60 Mr W says the diagnostic report he commissioned cost, as that 
charge wouldnt have been incurred if the car was of satisfactory quality. Theyll need to add 
interest to that refund too, but Mr W will need to provide proof of payment to Marsh first.
I understand that the car has already been returned, and that the agreement has already 
been ended, but if thats not the case Marsh should do that.
Mr W has been inconvenienced by these issues as hes had to commission a diagnostic 
report and escalate the complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. But Marsh have mitigated that inconvenience as theyve already agreed to carry out 
some actions and havent simply waited for the result of our investigation. Taking all of that 
into account, I think Marsh should pay Mr W £100 in compensation. 
 
Putting things right
I think Marsh should put things right in the way Ive set out above and detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Marsh Finance Ltd to:
End the agreement and collect the car if thats not already been done.
Refund two of the four monthly instalments paid and add 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund £60 for the diagnostic report Mr W paid for, on provision of proof of payment 
from Mr W. Add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr W £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ws credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman