DRN-1640558
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the valuation of his vehicle following a claim on his taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr F took out insurance for his taxi and his taxi was written off during a claim. Markerstudy 
offered Mr F a market value of £1,263 for his taxi. But Mr F thought his taxi was worth about 
£3,000 so he complained to Markerstudy and then this service.
Markerstudy explained that its engineer looked at three valuations for a taxi similar to Mr Fs 
and offered the average of these. It explained that ordinarily it would use the trade guides to 
value Mr Fs taxi, but it couldnt due to the age of the taxi. But it was happy the market value 
it had offered was a fair valuation.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F but he didnt uphold his complaint. He agreed the 
value seemed fair having looked at valuations himself. He also considered Mr Fs point that 
his taxi was worth more as it wasnt decommissioned when the ones that had been used to 
value his taxi had been. But he thought Markerstudy had acted reasonably, especially as it 
waived Mr Fs compulsory and voluntary excess and Mr F retained the taxi.
As Mr F didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration here and I can see he has provided some evidence of 
taxis for sale for a higher amount than he has been offered. But there is little detail available 
in the information he has provided, and I can see that one has significantly less mileage 
(over 100,000 miles less).
But it isnt the role of this service to value vehicles. And I must highlight that it is far from an 
exact science. What we do is consider the valuation placed on a vehicle by an insurance 
company and decide whether we think it is fair in all the circumstances. As Mr F is aware we 
pay particular attention to the trade guides but unfortunately we cant in this instance due to 
the age of Mr Fs taxi. So, in cases like this, I have to look at all the other evidence available 
in order to decide what is fair and reasonable. This can include adverts and I have 
considered those provided by both sides. But as Ive highlighted above the ones Mr F has 
provided mainly lack detail and vehicles dont usually sell for the advertised price in any 
event as there is a margin for negotiation built into the advert. I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.So, Ive looked at all the detail and tried to look at valuations myself. The task of valuing Mr 
Fs taxi is made significantly harder due to its age as it falls outside the guides and there isnt 
many advertised for sale. But Markerstudys engineer has provided a value based on an 
average of the adverts it has seen and provided copies of these. It also undertook its own 
further assessment and came to a similar average as provided by the engineer. I dont think 
this is an unfair approach in the circumstances.
I know Mr F thinks that his taxi is worth more. He suggested about £3,000 to Markerstudy 
and £2,500 when he complained to this service. He feels the taxi is worth more as it hasnt 
been decommissioned. But the two adverts he has provided arent persuasive. I say this as 
one doesnt give any detail (like mileage) and has an asking price of £2,000 (which I would 
expect to be negotiated down). While the other has significantly less mileage and has an 
asking price of £3,500. 
But Markerstudy has waived Mr Fs compulsory and voluntary excess and charged a very 
reasonable salvage charge to Mr F. If these costs are added together it means that 
Markerstudy has, in effect, paid Mr F about £500 more than it was obliged to. And I must 
highlight our investigator spoke to a taxi dealership who suggested the value of Mr Fs taxi 
was significantly less than Markerstudy has paid. Plus, any value that was in the taxi as it 
hasnt been decommissioned has been retained as Mr F has kept the taxi in any event. I 
know Mr F will be disappointed with this but overall, I think Markerstudy has acted 
reasonably here and so I wont be asking it to increase its offer.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman