DRN-2623826
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly 
declined a claim made under Mr Ms life protection policy. 
The estate of Mr M is represented in this complaint by Mr Ms wife, Mrs M. And Mrs M is 
herself represented by a friend. But to keep things simple, Ill only refer to Mrs M.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr M applied for and bought a life protection policy with LV, through an 
independent intermediary. The policy was for ten years and would pay £9,000 if Mr M 
passed away. Sadly, Mr M did pass away in November 2019. His cause of death was listed 
as I (a) Multi-organ failure (b) Strangulated Hiatus Hernia and II Hypertension. 
Mrs M made a claim with LV. But LV thought that when Mr M applied for the policy, he hadnt 
accurately disclosed how many units of alcohol he typically drank each week. And that hed 
incorrectly answered no when asked if a medical professional had ever advised him to 
reduce or stop his alcohol consumption, and when asked if hed had blood tests in the last 
five years to determine if his liver was functioning correctly. LV avoided the policy (cancelled 
it as if it had never existed), declined the claim and refunded the premiums Mr M had paid.
Mrs M complained to LV but it didnt uphold the complaint. LV said that in his application, 
Mr M disclosed his weekly alcohol consumption as twelve pints of beer, lager or cider, and 
eight glasses of wine. And its system had incorrectly calculated that as 36 units per week, 
when it was 46 units per week. LV said Mr Ms medical records showed he actually drank 63 
units per week and his doctor had advised him to reduce his alcohol consumption. So LV 
thought Mr M had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. LV said it was refunding 
the premiums Mr M had paid because of its calculation error, as what Mr M had told it about 
the amount of alcohol he drank per week meant it shouldnt have offered him the policy. LV 
offered Mrs M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error caused. 
Mrs M rejected this offer, saying Mr M hadnt made a misrepresentation and his honesty at 
application meant LV charged him higher premiums. Mrs M said LV hadnt been concerned 
about what Mr M disclosed in his application, and if it had been concerned then it should 
have asked for his medical records and reconsidered his application. She said Mr Ms doctor 
confirmed the advice he was given to reduce his alcohol consumption was only a standard 
recommendation since his liver function was good. And that Mr Ms death wasnt related to 
alcohol consumption. 
But LV didnt change its position, so Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought LV was reasonable to conclude Mr M had made a misrepresentation, 
but that it should be categorised as careless. And he thought LVs calculation error didnt 
change things and that LV was entitled to take the action it did. 
Mrs M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said LV had accepted 
Mr Ms application and had admitted it made an error by offering him a policy. That Mr M 
was advised about his drinking as most people are when they go to the doctor, and that it 
had been documented as being more serious than it really was, which is why she thought 
Mr M didnt disclose it. Mrs M said theyd thought they were protected by the policy and paid 
the premiums in good faith. 
As Mrs M asked, this complaint was passed to me for consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how very sorry I am to hear about Mr M passing away. I realise this 
complaint has been made under very upsetting and difficult circumstances for Mrs M, and I 
offer her my condolences. However, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise this isnt the 
answer Mrs M hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy) and when 
renewing one. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive looked at the questions LV asked Mr M in the policy application. Ive set out the relevant 
questions, with the answers Mr M gave in bold:
How many pints of beer, lager or cider do you drink per week? 12
How many glasses of wine do you drink per week? 8
How many measures of spirits or bottles of alcopops do you drink per week? 0
How many other alcoholic drinks do you drink per week? 0
Have you ever been advised to reduce or stop your alcohol consumption by a doctor 
or nurse or other medical professional? Including a referral for specialist support such 
as an alcohol dependence unit or Alcoholics Anonymous. No
Have any of the following applied to you in the last 5 years? Have had blood tests to 
determine if my liver is functioning correctly. None of the above
I think these questions were clear. But Mr Ms medical records shows the answers Mr M 
gave werent correct. I say that because an entry on 5 October 2017 noted Mr Ms alcohol 
consumption was 63 units per week, that a brief intervention for excessive alcohol 
consumption had been completed, that Mr M declined referral to a specialist alcohol referral 
treatment service, and that blood and liver function tests were requested. An entry soon after 
on 19 October 2017 noted Mr Ms liver function test results were borderline, that he should 
speak to a nurse, that a lifestyle discussion was needed, and that Mr M was informed. And an entry on 24 September 2018, the month before Mr M applied for and bought the 
policy, noted his alcohol consumption was 63 units per week, that an extended intervention 
for excessive alcohol consumption was completed but Mr M declined an alcohol 
consumption screening test. 
 
Im satisfied Mr M made a misrepresentation when he applied for this policy.  I say that 
because Mr Ms medical records show that in the twelve months running up to his 
application for the policy, he had a liver function test, his alcohol consumption was 63 units 
per week and he was given advice regarding his alcohol consumption  including being 
referred to an alcohol treatment service, though Mr M declined this. And Im satisfied this 
misrepresentation made a difference, because LV has provided me with underwriting 
guidance that shows it wouldnt have offered Mr M the policy had all the questions set out 
above been answered correctly. So Im satisfied it was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
I know Mrs M has suggested LV should have asked for Mr Ms medical records when he 
applied for the policy, but this isnt something LV was obliged to do. Instead LV was entitled 
to rely on the answers Mr M gave in his application. Mrs M also says Mr Ms death wasnt 
related to alcohol. But this doesnt change the responsibility Mr M had to correctly answer 
the application questions LV asked, or change the remedies available to LV under CIDRA 
when there has been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
LV has confirmed it categorised the misrepresentation as reckless. The relevant guidance 
defines deliberate or reckless misrepresentation as being where the customer knew, or must 
have known, that the information they gave was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer, or 
that the customer acted without any care as to whether it was either correct or relevant to the 
insurer. Ive considered whether LV was fair to categorise Mr Ms misrepresentation as 
reckless, and I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
Sadly, Mr M cant tell us why he gave the application answers he did. But he did disclose he 
drank 46 units of alcohol per week. And Mrs M suggests Mr M didnt disclose receiving 
advice regarding his alcohol consumption because he may have thought it was standard 
advice and not a serious issue. The relevant guidance defines careless misrepresentation as 
where the customer has failed to take reasonable care, including anything from an 
understandable oversight or inadvertent mistake, to serious negligence. Taking all this into 
account, Im satisfied its fairer for this misrepresentation to be categorised as careless.  
In these circumstances, and given that Im satisfied LV would not have offered Mr M a policy 
if all questions had been answered correctly, CIDRA entitles LV to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim. But says LV should refund the premiums Mr M paid. I can see this is what 
LV has done, so Im not asking LV to do anything further about the claim or policy. 
LV itself accepts it made a calculation error regarding Mr Ms application and shouldnt have 
offered him cover based on what he did disclose. But as Ive explained, Im satisfied Mr M 
made a qualifying careless misrepresentation. If he hadnt made that misrepresentation, LV 
would have been in possession of his full and correct alcohol consumption history. And this 
would have meant it declined his application for cover despite its calculation error. But I can 
understand why Mrs M is very unhappy after more recently being told about LVs error. LV 
has itself offered Mrs M £250 compensation for this and I dont think thats unfair in the 
circumstances. So I leave it to Mrs M to decide whether shed like to accept LVs offer.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont require Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to 
do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman