DRN-4161543
The complaint
Mr W, a director of A, a limited company, complains on As behalf about Aviva Insurance 
Limiteds handling of a claim made on a business insurance policy.
What happened
A held insurance covering its activities with Aviva. When the premises A operated from were 
damaged in a storm and it was unable to trade, A made a claim on the policy.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster and after enquiries were completed made an offer to pay 
£1,500 per month for As lost income due to the closure.
Mr W complained on As behalf to Aviva. He said the amount offered was insufficient and 
didnt properly reflect the income A had lost. He was also unhappy that Aviva continued 
taking premium payments on a monthly basis.
When Aviva rejected As complaints, Mr W referred them to our service. Our investigator 
thought Aviva had acted fairly. Mr W didnt agree and so this matter has come to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained about two different matters related to Avivas actions after A made the 
claim. The first is the delay to, and the value of the settlement offer made by Aviva. The 
second is Avivas actions in taking payments on a continuing basis for the premium. Ill deal 
with these separately.
Claim handling and settlement offer
I can see that A first contacted Aviva in March 2022, and that the first payment in settlement 
of the claim was in June 2022. A was told at that point that Aviva had calculated a loss of 
profit of £1,500 per month, and so it would pay this amount. The first payment was £6,000, 
to take into account the four months between making the claim and the settlement being 
made, with further payments of £1,500 per month from that date.
Insurers are entitled to undertake reasonable enquiries in order to validate a claim. However, 
they also have a duty to handle all claims promptly and effectively. From the evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied that the enquiries and investigations carried out by Aviva were 
reasonably required to confirm not only whether the policy provided cover for the claim, but 
also what the appropriate settlement would be.
I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration with the length of time between Aviva being notified of the 
claim and the settlement offer. His business was unable to trade, depriving him of income 
and the ability to pay staff and suppliers. I also understand how hed have been further 
frustrated by then receiving a settlement offer he considered to be inadequate. 
Unfortunately, the nature of Avivas enquiries, which involved contacting the owners of the 
premises A traded from, their insurers, accountants and other matters, were almost 
inevitably going to take some time to complete. I dont think it would be fair to expect Aviva 
to have made any payments during that period, as it hadnt been able to confirm cover or 
establish what a reasonable settlement amount would be. Once cover was confirmed, and a 
settlement figure reached, it backdated the payments to cover the four month period the 
enquiries had taken.
Ive also reviewed when the payments were made by Aviva following recommendations from 
the loss adjusters. There does appear to have been a delay between a payment being 
recommended and it being made of around three weeks during July and August 2022. 
However, Im not satisfied this had a material impact on A. I say this because I can see that 
during this period other payments totalling £4,500 had been made, and the payments made 
were by and large made on a regular basis. I havent been provided with any evidence that 
this delay impacted A beyond what had already occurred due to A being unable to trade.
Im also aware that Mr W is unhappy that, during discussions with the loss adjuster about the 
claim and amounts being offered in settlement, it was suggested that A make staff redundant 
because of the inability to trade. I can understand that such a suggestion may be upsetting 
to Mr W. However, at a time when Mr W was disputing the settlement being offered, and 
suggesting it is insufficient to meet As overheads including staff costs, it seems reasonable 
for Aviva to suggest that, notwithstanding the complaint, A consider ways of reducing its cost 
base. 
Turning to the settlement made by Aviva, which Im satisfied forms the main element of As 
complaint, the policy terms and conditions go into detail about how settlements for lost 
income will be calculated. These terms and conditions were outlined in our investigators 
opinion and I dont intend to repeat them in full here, as the points in dispute dont relate to 
definitions but the calculations and figures used to reach the settlement.
Effectively, As policy says it will cover the profit lost by A during a period of closure which 
arises from an insured event. In making an assessment of that profit, the policy terms and 
conditions say Aviva will look at the turnover during the 12 months immediately before the 
date of the damage, but that the relevant figures may be adjusted to reflect any trends or 
circumstances which affect the business before or after the damageThe adjusted figures 
represent as far as possible the results which would have been achieved during the same 
period had the damage not occurred.
The primary issue that causes this dispute is that As trading in the 12 months before the 
storm, and the preceding 12 month period, was seriously affected by Covid-19 and the 
associated lockdowns and restrictions on trading. This meant it wasnt practical, or fair, to 
use As figures from the 12 months prior to the storm because there had been periods where 
As ability to trade had been affected. Aviva therefore looked at accounts from the period 
before Covid-19 and the Covid-19 affected period. It considered that the accounts showed 
that As performance was trending downwards and applied that trend to the figures, settling 
on a £1,500 per month as a fair settlement. 
Mr W, on behalf of A, strongly rejects Avivas conclusions around the trend of the business. 
He says that a number of factors impacted on the turnover during the relevant periods, 
outside of the Covid-19 related restrictions, including broken equipment and staff illness. He 
believes that As turnover would have been much higher than Aviva and so a higher 
settlement should be made.
Im not qualified to be able to say whether Aviva has applied the right trend, the percentages 
that should be deducted (if any) or the exact figures Aviva should rely on to make its calculations. What I can say is that based on the evidence provided, I think Aviva has acted 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
In the first instance, I need to acknowledge that there is a degree of estimation and 
assumption in the settlement reached by Aviva. Thats an unfortunate effect of the 
circumstances of this claim, and its timing in respect of an unprecedented period of 
disruption to normal trading for A. Avivas rightly identified that relying on the figures from the 
12 months prior to As premises being damaged wouldnt be fair or represent a true picture 
of As likely turnover. Its looked at the accounts from previous years but reasonably 
concluded that simply using those wouldnt be the right outcome either  the economic 
climate, consumer spending and costs incurred by businesses are very different to that 
period.
Im satisfied Aviva has shown a logical basis for its calculations, and demonstrated how 
these figures have been reached. I cant conclude the settlement of £1,500 per month is 
obviously flawed or unreasonable. I also cant use Mr Ws forecast for As turnover to reach 
such a conclusion, as Im unable to establish on what basis such forecasts have been made. 
In any case, the policy terms and conditions dont allow for forecasted figures to be used 
instead of previous turnover figures. The way in which Aviva has calculated the settlement is 
in line with what is set out in the policy terms and conditions and what is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I should add at this point that the amount of analysis of the accounts, consideration of the 
impact of Covid-19 and all other matters relating to As turnover over this period would also 
have had a significant impact on the amount of time taken to reach the settlement figure. 
The complexity, and lack of certainty available to Aviva, would mean that this would take 
longer than would be ideal. 
Payment of premiums
Mr W, on behalf of A, raises a further complaint that after the settlement of £1,500 per month 
is made, A has been paying more than £500 per month back to Aviva for As policy. He 
thinks this is an unfair financial burden at a time when the income being received from Aviva 
is inadequate.
Ive addressed why I think the settlement is fair above, but I also need to address whether 
its fair for Aviva to require the payment of the premiums.
I can see that the premium payments in question are a monthly instalment of the full 
premium due for the full period of cover, with the policy having renewed following the claim. 
This is a separate policy to the one which the claim was made on. Im also aware that Aviva 
recalculated the premium due to A being unable to trade.
A cancelled the Direct Debit mandate to pay the premium monthly and Aviva had placed the 
account on hold, rather than seeking to collect the outstanding amounts. Given the dispute 
over the settlement and the comments from A about the affordability of the premium in light 
of the settlement being made, I think this was fair.
However, the premium is due. A has continued to have the benefit of the insurance cover 
from the policy in the event of any further incidents which could give rise to a new claim. Ive 
also seen nothing to suggest A hadnt agreed to pay the premium in exchange for the cover, 
and so Aviva is entitled to collect the premium due. If A didnt want to pay the premium, it 
could have discussed with Aviva its options in terms of cancelling the policy, or reviewing the 
cover available to reduce the premium due. I havent seen anything which suggests it did so. I conclude that Aviva can reasonably require the premium to be paid by A for the cover 
provided.
Its also fair to say that Aviva acted reasonably by collecting the premiums initially. A had 
agreed to pay those monthly amounts in order to have the relevant cover in place. The 
existence of an ongoing claim wouldnt, in my view, be a reason for Aviva to suspend taking 
the payments.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman