DRN-4178297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about their secured loan that was being administered by 
Target Servicing Limited. Theyve said the loan was sold to them as having a variable rate, 
but that when the Bank of England base rate was at an all-time low the interest rate didnt 
reduce.
What happened
In November 2006 Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan with a lender that Ill refer to as P. 
They borrowed £25,000 over a 25-year term. The initial interest rate was 6.73% variable, 
which gave an initial contractual monthly payment of £172.44.
The credit agreement showed that if all payments were made in full and on time, and the 
interest rate remained the same, that Mr and Mrs M would pay £26,732 in interest (on top of 
the £25,000 loan amount) over the term of the loan.
In 2009 the loan was transferred from P to a lender Ill refer to as P1. P1 later appointed 
Target to administer the loan on its behalf.
Any reference to the lender in this decision should be taken to mean P or P1 as 
appropriate. And in relation to P1 that should also mean Target acting on P1s behalf.
The following changes were made to the interest rate over the life of the loan:
Date Existing interest rate Rate change New interest rate
Inception 6.73%
March 2007 6.73% + 0.50% 7.23%
June 2007 7.23% + 0.25% 7.48%
September 2007 7.48% + 0.25% 7.73%
October 2007 7.73% + 0.50% 8.23%
March 2008 8.23% - 0.25% 7.98%
January 2009 7.98% - 0.50% 7.48%
April 2020 7.48% - 0.65% 6.83%
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint in 2019 that the rate seemed to increase in-line with the 
Bank of England base rate (BoEBR) but didnt fall when the BoEBR decreased.
P1 responded to that complaint on 17 September 2019. It said that the interest rate had 
varied down as well as up, and it hadnt always gone up when BoEBR increased. The 
complaint was referred to us in October 2019 and one of our investigators issued their 
opinion on the complaint in November 2019. Mr and Mrs M didnt ask that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman and so the case was closed.
The loan account was closed in May 2021 after negotiations over a short settlement 
agreement (that is, P1 accepting less than the true redemption figure due at that time), with 
P1 writing off the remainder of the debt.
Mr and Mrs M raised a further complaint in January 2022 about the interest rate they had 
been charged. P1 responded to that on 1 February 2022, saying that it wouldnt be 
reconsidering the time period covered in the 2019 complaint, and since then the rate hadnt 
increased; the only change was a decrease which had happened in April 2020. 
Our investigator said we wont be looking at the 2019 complaint again, so wed only be 
dealing with a complaint covering the period since 18 September 2019. He then went onto 
consider the merits of that complaint and didnt uphold it.
Mr and Mrs M responded to say they wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
In July 2023 I issued a decision explaining that I will only be dealing with a complaint 
covering the period since 18 September 2019, until the loan was redeemed in May 2021. 
And then earlier this month I issued my provisional findings about the merits of that part of 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
My provisional findings said:
I must consider whether from 18 September 2019 onwards, Mr and Mrs M paid an unfairly 
high rate of interest. As our investigator explained, in considering the fairness of the 
interest charged since 18 September 2019, it will be necessary for me to consider what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This means that I will need to 
consider all the matters that contribute to and make up the interest charge added to the 
loan each month. And in turn that means considering the fairness of the interest rate used 
as the basis of the calculation.
In order to consider what is fair and reasonable I need to consider all the circumstances. I 
need to look at the impact of what may or may not have contributed to those charges  
including things that happened before 18 September 2019 which influenced the rate 
charged at that time.
Im satisfied that this is an essential part of determining whether or not the rate charged 
from 18 September 2019 onwards was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But in 
the event that I find something unfair about what happened before that date, I can only 
consider its impact on the interest charged since then  and therefore any redress I would 
award would only cover interest charged since 18 September 2019. Thats because the 
complaint Im considering is that interest was unfairly charged from 18 September 2019 
onwards.
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant 
terms themselves.Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement says the interest rate is 6.732% per annum variable. It 
then says in section 2.2 of the loan conditions:
We may, at Our discretion, from time to time, vary Our interest rates to reflect a change 
which has occurred, or which We reasonably expect to occur, in interest rates generally 
(although there will be no obligation upon Us to do so), or, to redress any reduction in Our 
profitability caused by changes to legislation.
The loan Terms and Conditions set out that the loan would be on a variable rate of interest 
and that rate could go up as well as down. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me 
that the lender was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have the variable rate track the 
BoEBR. Theres also nothing in the Terms and Conditions that entitled Mr and Mrs M to a 
new interest rate. To that extent, the loan has operated as it should.
That said, our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That includes, thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent 
to which, the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr and Mrs M. I 
think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case. 
When considering everything Im satisfied the lender has operated within the relevant 
terms and conditions, Ill explain why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes the lender has made to 
the variable rate since Mr and Mrs M took their loan. Having done so, I am not persuaded 
that anything the lender has done in varying the rate has led to Mr and Mrs M being treated 
unfairly. I have set out why below.
Target has not been able to provide detailed information for the period whilst the loan was 
with P. It is possible that there is evidence relevant to its decision making at that time that 
is no longer in existence. This is not surprising given that the events in question took place 
so long ago and relate to a lender that was dissolved in 2009.
While this limits the depths to which I can assess the lenders decisions to, or not to, vary 
its variable rate prior to 2009, Target has been able to give us some broad information, 
relevant to that period. I have looked at that alongside what I understand about what was 
happening in the wider market at the time.
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a 
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including 
P, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the 
market at the time. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the cost 
to lenders of funding their businesses changed.
It is clear P had some significant funding issues at the time as ultimately P entered 
insolvency and was dissolved. So it seems reasonable to say P didnt have the profitability 
to be in a position to reduce rates. Whilst the evidence provided is limited, I have not seen 
any evidence to suggest the changes P made (or didnt make) were arbitrary, excessive, or 
unfair. And Im further satisfied that, albeit limited, the information Target has been able to
provide for this period is corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time. 
Since Ps collapse and the transfer of the loan to P1 in 2009, the interest rate remained 
unchanged until 2020. Whilst the August 2016 BoEBR 0.25% decrease wasnt reflected in 
a change to the interest rate, neither were the subsequent 0.25% increases in November 
2017 and August 2018 respectively. As Ive already explained, there was no contractual 
obligation for Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate to track BoEBR and, in any event, I think Mr and Mrs M were likely in a better position with their interest rate remaining unchanged in 
that period as whilst there was one decrease that was only for around 15 months before 
BoEBR reverted to its previous level, whereas the subsequent increase lasted for 
19 months. In April 2020 the interest rate reduced by 0.65%, just as the BoEBR had done 
in March 2020, and from then the interest rate remained unchanged until the loan was 
redeemed in May 2021.
Because of Ps collapse, its loans were transferred to P1 which isnt an active lender and 
so is unable to offer new interest rates to any of its customers. So, all its other customers 
were in the same position as Mr and Mrs M  and they werent treated any less favourably 
than any other customer. That aside, it isnt at all unusual in the second charge loan market 
for lenders to not offer new preferential rates to existing customers so even if P had 
remained as an active lender it is likely Mr and Mrs M would have needed to refinance the 
loan anyway if they wanted to obtain a new rate.
The loan Terms and Conditions set out that Mr and Mrs Ms loan would be charged a 
variable rate of interest, and that could go up as well as down. I havent seen any evidence 
that persuades me that the lender was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its 
variable rate track the Bank of England base rate. Theres also nothing in the Terms and 
Conditions that entitled Mr and Mrs M to a new interest rate. To that extent, the loan has 
operated as it should.
So to conclude, Im not persuaded that the lender has operated the terms in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest they were charged during the 
period Im able to consider was unfair for any other reason.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs M wanted to have paid a lower rate than they did. But, as 
Ive said, neither lender was obliged to offer new rates. Neither lender stood in the way of 
them moving their mortgage to another lender to take a lower rate  there was no notable 
early repayment charge, for example.
Having considered everything I cant find that Mr and Mrs M were treated unfairly here, and 
I cant therefore uphold this complaint.
Both parties confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having reviewed my provisional findings afresh, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman