DRN-4087685
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale Bank), trading as Virgin Money, 
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs W entered into an agreement with Clydesdale Bank to have access to 
credit by way of a credit card account. She was granted a credit limit of £4,000 which could 
be used as an interest free cash transfer. 
Mrs W started missing payments on her account in around October 2019. 
Mrs W says that Clydesdale Bank didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it 
opened her credit card account. She says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt 
affordable for her as she was already struggling to manage other loans and debts. 
Clydesdale Bank said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check 
Mrs Ws financial circumstances before granting her the credit 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive seen that Mrs W is unhappy with our adjudicators view of her complaint. I think it might 
help if I briefly explain how we generally look into complaints like this. We first look at 
whether the checks completed by the relevant business were reasonable and proportionate 
in relation to the agreement and credit being granted. Having done so, we consider what 
those checks would have been likely to show. So its possible, as in Mrs Ws complaint, that 
we may say a business could have carried out better checks before making the credit 
available. But once we have checked what information the business would have been likely 
to see at the time, we may still find that it didnt act unfairly in granting the credit. In the same 
way, without enough details about a consumers financial situation at the time, we may not 
be in a position to make a finding that the lending ought not to have been granted. 
Having looked at Mrs Ws complaint, I have reached the same finding as our adjudicator. I 
dont think Clydesdale Bank acted unfairly when approving Mrs Ws application for credit. I 
will explain why.
Did Clydesdale Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs W would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
Mrs W says that Clydesdale Bank acted irresponsibly by granting her the opening credit limit 
on the card. 
Before granting the account Clydesdale Bank looked into Mrs Ws financial situation, 
including the way she was managing her other existing credit. Ive seen that Mrs W provided 
details about the income from her occupation on her application, which showed her as 
having an annual income of £28,000. From the credit check it carried out, Clydesdale Bank 
would have been aware that Mrs W already owed money to several creditors, owing around 
£9,500. She also had a mortgage on which she owed £105,000. However, she hadnt 
missed any credit payments or incurred default fees in relation to her credit. So there were 
no adverse markers showing up on the check or court judgments registered against her. 
Mrs W has told us about other credit she had at the time. She says she and her husband 
had total household debt in excess of £70,000 and were making monthly credit repayments 
of around £2,100. But she hasnt given us a copy of her credit report, which could help to 
give an indication of her financial position at the time in terms of her credit commitments. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that Clydesdale Bank could have carried out better 
checks before granting the credit, such as asking Mrs W to provide details about her daily 
outgoings and other committed expenditure. I think by doing so Clydesdale Bank would have 
been acting proportionately by seeking to gain a more thorough understanding of Mrs Ws 
financial circumstances before agreeing to open the account. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
As Ive said above, I think it would have been proportionate for Clydesdale Bank to have 
carried out further checks before lending to Mrs W. In particular, I think it needed a better 
understanding of her committed expenditure which would have given a fuller picture of her 
financial situation at the time. 
I see our adjudicator asked Mrs W for some further details and evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the relevant time, such as bank statements. This was to help us 
understand what, if anything, Clydesdale Bank might have found out if it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. Unfortunately, Mrs W hasnt been able to provide us 
with copies of her bank statements, although she gave us some details about the credit she 
owed elsewhere which I have already referred to. Unfortunately, though, I dont think Mrs W 
has provided enough information to help us determine whether or not Clydesdale Bank 
made a fair lending decision when it granted her the credit on the account. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Ive seen enough to show or suggest that Mrs Ws credit card agreement with 
Clydesdale Bank was unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Clydesdale Bank 
ought to have known she would struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not 
persuaded that Clydesdale Bank acted unfairly in approving her for the card. It follows that I 
dont think it needs to do anything more to put things right. 
Did Clydesdale Bank act unfairly in any other way?
Ive seen that Clydesdale Bank offered Mrs W £100 as a goodwill gesture for its delay in 
looking into her complaint. Its not clear to me whether or not Mrs W has accepted the offer. 
Given what Ive seen though, I think the offer is reasonable. I am sorry that Im not able to help Mrs W further on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman