DRN-4301131
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) told them to 
arrange drain unblocking privately, but then failed to reimburse the full cost.
Mr M and Mrs F jointly held home emergency cover underwritten by RSA. For ease of 
reading, Ill just refer to Mr M, and any mention of RSA also covers actions taken by its 
agents.
What happened
Mr M contacted RSA because he had a drain blockage. RSA didnt have contractors with the 
appropriate equipment, so it told Mr M to arrange the work privately. He believed RSA told 
him it would reimburse the cost.
Mr M had the drain blockage cleared and repaired and sent the invoice to RSA. RSA paid 
£492 of the total invoice. Mr M complained to RSA because he believed it would pay the full 
£4,255 invoice. He said that was agreed over the phone.
RSA said the policy covered the cost of clearing the blockage, which was the immediate 
problem. Any repairs to prevent a recurrence fell outside the policy cover, so Mr M would 
need to pay those costs. Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us.
To begin with, our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint because RSA didnt provide any 
evidence. On receipt of RSAs evidence, our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do any 
more. Thats because the policy didnt provide cover for the repair element of the claim.
Mr M didnt agree. He said RSA agreed to reimburse the cost and that should be evidenced 
on recorded calls with RSA.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. While I realise hell be 
disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied that RSA reimbursed him the amount he was 
due in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Ill explain.
Mr Ms policy covers home emergencies, and RSAs responsibilities are set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. Ive looked at what the policy says about RSAs responsibilities. The 
policy provides, assistance in an emergency following damage to or failure of the plumbing 
and drainage system which causes blocked external drains where this can be resolved 
by jetting. The policy does not cover, additional repair work, for example a blocked drain 
will be left running clear but if the drain needs to be realigned to avoid the problem recurring, 
this will not be covered.
Im satisfied the extent of cover is made clear in the policy booklet.
Mr M said there was an agreement with RSA that it would reimburse the cost of repairs 
because they lacked immediate access to the appropriate equipment. RSA has provided the 
call recordings it has available, none of which include the conversation Mr M refers to. In one 
call, I heard Mr M ask whether he could arrange the work himself and seek reimbursement, 
but RSA said it couldnt authorise that because it didnt have confirmation from the contractor 
that there wasn't a septic tank on site. Nevertheless, I have no reason to doubt that Mr M 
believed RSA would pay for the full cost of repairs.
However, the intent of the policy is to cover emergency work and not to provide for complete 
or long-lasting repairs. So, I think its unlikely that RSA wouldve agreed to pay for the full 
repair costs. On balance, I consider it more likely than not that RSA intended to reimburse 
Mr M for the cost of an appropriate private contractor to carry out work using the necessary 
equipment to clear the drain in line with RSAs liability under the policy.
As recommended, Mr M arranged for the work privately. RSA agreed to pay the cost of the 
work needed to clear the drain, in line with its responsibility under the insurance cover. While 
Mr Ms expectation that RSA would pay the full cost is understandable, its important to 
emphasise that the policy does not extend to a permanent fix, unless the cost of doing so is 
broadly in line with the cost of the temporary repair. That is clearly not the position here, 
where the difference is over £3,000, with over £2,000 of the cost covering the removal of 
roots.
In summary, regardless of whether there was a misunderstanding about what RSA would 
pay for, Im satisfied that the limit of RSAs liability is set out clearly in the policy. So, I 
wouldnt expect it to extend cover to the remedial element of the work. I see no reason to 
ask RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman