DRN-4044513
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as O has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt offered
enough to settle its loss of income insurance claim.
Mr S, a director of O, has brought the complaint on Os behalf through a representative. For
ease of reading, I will refer to O throughout.
Reference to Ageas includes anything done by its agents.
What happened
O runs a holiday home for which it held loss of income cover with Ageas. The policy ran from
11 December 2019 to 10 December 2020.
O, via its broker, cancelled the loss of income cover on the policy in May 2020 meaning that 
there was no cover from 1 June 2020 onwards. O said this is because if the policy didnt 
provide cover and the holiday home was going to be empty it didnt need the cover.
In October 2020, O claimed on its policy for loss of income from 24 March 2020 after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
In December 2020, O renewed its policy and included loss of income cover but the policy
excluded cover for Covid-19.
Ageas initially said the policy would cover any cancelled bookings up to 10 December 2020
and O would need to make a further claim for any cancelled bookings beyond that date.
However, Ageas later realised that the cover for loss of income had been removed from       
1 June 2020. Therefore, it said it would only pay for cancelled bookings up to 31 May 2020.
O complained to Ageas. It said the cover had only been removed due to Ageas indicating
that Os claim wouldnt be covered. It said the claim should be covered if it pays Ageas the
premium that was returned. O also said that, in any event, the policy provided cover for a 12
month indemnity period and not just until the date the policy lapsed. Therefore, O said the
period of claim payable should be between 23 March 2020 and 23 March 2021.
Ageas maintained that it would not offer anything further to settle Os claim. Unhappy with
Ageass response, O brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Os complaint and recommended it be upheld as she thought
Ageas should have paid Os claim for the entire lockdown period from March to July 2020.
She asked Ageas to pay Os claim for losses until 4 July 2020 plus interest. She thought it
would be fair for Ageas to deduct the additional premium from this amount.
Ageas didnt reply but O didnt agree. It said its losses should be covered for the full 12
months until March 2021. O asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
Before I reached a decision, our investigator asked O why it didnt claim until October 2020
and asked Ageas whether it had declined claims on this policy at the beginning of the
pandemic.
O said it, and the broker on its behalf, had assumed that there was no cover under the
policy. It said it had later realised there might be cover following the Financial Conduct
Authority Business Interruption Insurance test case. O said that neither it, nor its broker,
had received any notification from Ageas to indicate that there was cover.
Ageas said while it had initially held some claims in abeyance, it had not declined claims. It
said in April 2020 it accepted claims where there was cover in place, and the booking was 
due to take place during the policy period, and where there were restrictions in place due to 
Covid-19.
I issued a provisional decision on Os complaint on 10 March 2023. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Os claim was paid under the following clause:
Disease, vermin, defective sanitation, and murder
We will pay for loss of income for up to twelve months
resulting from:
 a notifiable human disease at the holiday let, or within
a 25 miles radius of the holiday let.
 the discovery of vermin or pests at the holiday let.
 any occurrence of murder or suicide at the holiday let.
 any Accidental Damage causing defects in the drains or
other sanitary arrangements at the holiday let.
I understand that part of Os complaint is that the policy should provide cover for up to 12
months, as that is the indemnity period on the policy. However, I dont believe that it is
necessary for me make a finding on whether the policy should have provided cover beyond
the date Os policy lapsed. Thats because O told us that its broker cancelled the loss of
income cover on the policy mid-term.
As O, or the broker acting on its behalf, decided to cancel the loss of income cover from     
31 May 2020, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Ageas to pay Os
claim beyond that date. I say that because beyond 31 May 2020 it did not have cover on the
policy and had received a refund of premium for the cover. Therefore, O was no longer
insured for any loss of income beyond that date.
I have thought about Os point that it believed there was no cover available under the policy
and that Ageas is responsible for that. However, I dont believe that I can fairly hold Ageas
responsible for Os belief in the circumstances. I have not been provided with anything other
than Os comments to support that Ageas told Os broker that claims werent being paid
under this policy. Ageas has said that while it held some claims in abeyance to consider
whether there was cover, it hadnt declined claims. It also said that it had accepted claims
under this clause before the cover was cancelled. Therefore, on balance, I think its unlikely
that Ageas told Os broker that it wasnt paying claims on this policy wording. I also dont
believe that there was an obligation on Ageas to check whether O had experienced a loss
prior to the cover being removed given that the cover was removed by the broker.In reaching this decision, I have considered whether Os broker was acting as an agent of
Ageas when cancelling the cover. Our service has asked both Ageas and the broker whether
the broker was acting as an agent of Ageas in carrying out this activity and neither has
confirmed that the broker was acting as Ageas agent in carrying out this activity. This is in
line with the brokers Terms of Business which indicate that the broker acts as the agent of
the policyholder when making any changes to the policy. O hasnt indicated that it thinks the
broker was acting as Ageass agent either. However, if any party believes that the broker
was acting as Ageass agent in cancelling the cover, they should let me know by 24 March
2023.
Ageass communication about the claim
I can see that in early January 2021 Ageas indicated to O that its claim would be considered
for cancelled bookings until the policy renewal date in December 2020. However, in late
March 2021 Ageas told O that there had been a mid-term adjustment and that meant cover
was only in place until 31 May 2020. Following further communication one of Ageass
customer relations employees let O know that it had received an opinion from a senior
manager which supported Os view that its claim should be paid for 12 months. They said
they would refer it back to the claims team for review and in April 2021 O was asked to
provide details of losses for the period until March 2021. On 7 May 2021 Ageas told O that it
would only be covering its claim until 31 May 2021.
I think that Ageas provided O with inconsistent information which would have caused it some
inconvenience, for example in having to collate and provide evidence to support its claim
beyond 31 May 2020. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the incorrect
information caused O a financial loss. Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for
Ageas to compensate O for the unnecessary inconvenience it caused as it led O to believe
its claim might be covered when Ageas should have known it wouldnt be. I think £200
would be a fair and reasonable amount for this.
O responded to say that it was an innocent party and had been badly let down by the insurer 
and the broker. O asked when Ageas started letting its policyholders know that it would be 
paying claims and whether it communicated anything about that. O said that the fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for O to pay the refunded premium and for the policy to be 
reinstated. 
O said that, in any event, it thought that there would be cover beyond the date the policy 
lapsed because the cover had been triggered while the cover was in force. O said it was no 
different to an insured event taking place towards the end of the policy period. O also said 
that it thought Ageas was benefitting from a genuine mistake. 
O added that it had not received any payment from Ageas and asked me to consider that 
and award interest. 
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. As Ive already 
set out my reasons within my provisional decision, I do not see the need to repeat them 
here. However, I will address what I consider the main points within Os response. O said that it had been let down by both Ageas and the broker. In this decision I can only 
consider whether Ageas or anyone acting as its agent has done anything wrong. In response 
to my provisional decision it has not been suggested that Os broker was an agent of Ageas. 
Therefore, I cant make a finding on the actions of Os broker in this decision. 
Ageas said that it accepted claims on this policy wording in April 2020. I understand that 
Ageas did not send out anything out to its policyholders to inform them of this but I dont 
think this means Ageas made an error which led to Os decision to remove the loss of 
income cover. 
I do not agree that Os circumstances are similar to an insured event taking place towards 
the end of the policy period. Thats because, in Os case, the cover had been removed mid-
term which means it hadnt paid for the cover for the full term of the policy. I have to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the complaint and in this particular 
case I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Ageas to pay Os claim 
beyond the date that cover was removed from the policy. 
I have noted Os point that it has not yet received any money in settlement for its claim, 
despite having asked for interim payments, and would like me to consider awarding interest. 
That will be dealt with as a separate complaint so Im not going to comment on it further 
within this decision. 
Putting things right
I think that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Ageas to pay O £200 
inconvenience for providing inconsistent information about how the claim would be settled. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to do 
what Ive set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman