DRN-3143507
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) told him it could no longer provide 
cover under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N contacted Aviva to update his policy because some building works were about to start 
on his home. When Aviva replied, it said it could no longer provide cover. So, Mr N 
complained.
When Aviva replied, it said the policy terms and conditions explained that if a policyholder 
told it about a change that it would tell them if it affected the policy, including if it could no 
longer offer cover. It said it had acted in line with its underwriting criteria and this couldnt be 
changed. It refunded the cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill.
So, Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the policy documents had explained that Aviva might not be able to provide cover if a 
change was made and it had acted in line with the terms and conditions.
As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said:
You  need to tell us if:
 you plan to:
- alter or renovate the buildings (but not internal renovations)

When you tell us about a change we will tell you if this affects your policy (for example if we 
can no longer offer cover or if we need to change your premium).
Mr N contacted Aviva because he was going to have a loft extension to his home. Aviva told 
him it was unable to provide cover and so cancelled the policy. Mr N raised concerns about 
Avivas decision, so Ive looked at these. 
Mr N has said he didnt think the policy terms and conditions made it clear enough that Aviva 
might not offer cover if a change was made to the policy. Having read the policy terms and 
conditions, I think it did explain that when a change was made to the policy this was a 
possibility, including because of renovations. 
I also note that at the start of the policy booklet it said:
During the life of your policy you need to tell us about any changes to the information youve 
given us. More details about this can be found in the General Conditions section.
So, this directed the policyholder to the part of the policy that explained about the need to tell 
Aviva about alterations to the building and about the possibility that it might not be able to 
provide cover.
Im aware that Mr N has suggested that the wording could have been more detailed, 
reworded or put in bold, but this service cant tell an insurer how to word its policy or what 
emphasis to put on it. When Mr N raised this with Aviva, it said it would pass this to the 
relevant team to consider. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr N has also said that other insurers were able to provide cover during the building work. 
However, Aviva is entitled to make its own decisions about what it is willing to insure. If other 
insurers were willing to provide cover, that doesnt mean Aviva also had to do so.
Mr N also said the premium he was offered by another insurer was higher because he had to 
find a new policy at short notice. Im aware that Mr N has said he found it difficult to get in 
contact with Aviva. This seems, at least in part, to be because Mr Ns policy only allowed him 
to make contact online. Avivas records show that Mr N received a response the day after he 
told it about the building work. Aviva could only advise what would happen once Mr N had 
told it about the work. So, I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman