DRN-3134271
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by St Helena Financial Ltd (SHF) an
appointed representative (AR) of Coffey Brooks Financial Services Ltd, to switch his pension
to a new self invested personal pension (SIPP) and arrange high risk investments through a
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
 
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ps complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 15 September 
2021. Ive recapped here what I said about the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings. 
Mr P met with SHF in June 2018. Ill call SHFs adviser Mr M. According to the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) register, Mr M held a CF30 customer adviser role with SHF from
April 2018 to September 2019.
Mr P had two SIPPs. One with Sovereign Pension Services (SPS) and another with
Momentum. The majority of his pension at the time was held in cash. His objective was to
invest over the medium to long term to provide regular flexible income from his SIPP. He
was in the process of transferring his Momentum SIPP to his SPS SIPP. The benefits were
transferred on 23 July 2018.
SHFs recommendations were set out in a letter dated 20 July 2018. SHF recommended that
Mr P maintain his existing SPS SIPP. SHF wasnt advising on the funds (some £37,981) that
werent due to be liquidated until 2022  that investment had been recommended by a
previous adviser. SHF was advising on the remaining £437,077.60 held in cash. SHF
recommended that £430,000 was invested, to allow a cash balance to be retained for fees.
SHF recommended investment via a DFM. SHF said Mr Ps investment would be directly
managed by the DFM within its balanced portfolio account, in line with Mr Ps attitude to risk.
That had been assessed as 7 out of 10 following completion of a risk profiling questionnaire.
But the adviser had suggested that was tempered down to 5 out of 10 (a medium risk profile)
due to Mr Ps age and because he didnt have any employment income (although he did
have an income from a property). The DFMs balanced portfolio matched Mr Ps medium risk
profile.
The DFMs application form was completed on 23 July 2018. There was a section headed
Financial Intermediary  to be completed by the Financial Adviser. It shows Mr Ms name
(along with Coffey Brooks principal) and Mr Ms SHF contact details.
Theres a section about exclusions about certain types of investments. It sets out that,
unless told otherwise, the DFM can invest in a wide range of assets types and different
markets and might include non readily realisable or illiquid investments including those not
traded on any recognised stock exchange. Theres a box to be completed if limits are to be
placed on investments  such as types, amounts or proportions. The following has been
written in.
While investments in non standard assets are allowed within our SIPPs, these investments
will result in additional fees being levied to our member due to capital adequacy
requirements. We must be consulted before any non standard asset investment is taken up
within this account.
Under Third Party Instructions the DFM was authorised to accept any and all instructions
from Mr M.
The Declaration and Signatories to Account section included the following Financial
Intermediary Declaration signed by Mr M.
I confirm that I am the appointed financial Intermediary to the pension arrangement to be
managed by [the DFM] under this Client Agreement and Terms of Business, and am
responsible for Its ongoing review and for notifying [the DFM] of any changes to the
Investors circumstances or overall retirement strategy.
I confirm that I currently hold appropriate regulatory permissions to enable me to fulfill the
obligations under this Agreement and undertake to notify [the DFM] in the event that
this ceases to be the case.
The form was signed by Mr M and Mr P.
The DFM forwarded the application form to SPS on 25 July 2018. On 4 October 2018
£430,000 was transferred to the DFM from the SIPP bank account.
Ive seen an email sent by Mr M (from his personal email account, not his SHF email
address) to Mr P on 5 October 2018. It said:
Attached is the proposed portfolio for [y]our funds.
It has been designed to provide virtually 100% liquidity, while giving the targeted growth and
yields, as requested, within the Balanced Risk profile requested by yourself.
Globe is proposed but can be switched for more in Clean Tech if you wanted to want
diversity away from UK property a little (Cherry, Via and Globe are UK property based).
The email added that Mr P would need to send a copy to the DFM (a name and contact
details were given) attaching the sheet and instructing the DFM to proceed with the
acquisition of the assets. The attachment showed the following breakdown:
Clean Tech 7.00%
Globe Capital Ltd 7.6%
NQ Minerals 16.98%
Via Developments 7.00%
Cherry Homes 20.00%
Cash  2.00%
DFM (Balanced FOF) 39.40%
Theres an email sent by Mr P on 8 October 2018 to the DFM, copied to Mr M (again to his
personal email account) saying:
 As requested by [Mr M] I am sending a copy of proposed portfolio with my approval to
proceed with investment of my funds.
On 12 October 2018, the DFM wrote to SPS confirming safe receipt of £430,000 (received
on 5th October 2018) and saying that it understood that Mr P had indicated a balanced (or
medium) approach to investment management with a medium term time horizon of betweenfive and ten years. On the same day, the agreed adviser fee of £2,500 was paid to Coffey
Brooks.
On 11 October 2018 177,000 shares (at 1.8p per share) were purchased in Globe Capital
Ltd, a rental property portfolio fund, making a total investment of £31,860. Administration
costs of £318.60 were charged, making the total outlay £32,178.60.
On 25 October 2018 an investment was made in Clean Tech. The total cost was £30,495.77,
which included an administrative fee of £301.93
On 21 November 2018 47,500 shares (at 15p per share) were bought in NQ Minerals, a gold
mining fund at a cost of £71,250.
From 25 January 2019, the DFM managed, on a discretionary basis, a portfolio with a
starting value of £266,075.63.
Mr P has since sold the NQ Minerals and Globe Capital Ltd investments. On 10 June 2019
10,000 shares in NQ Minerals were sold. The share price had fallen to 5p per share. Less
the administration charge of £25, the total realised was £4,975. And on 12 June 2019 the
balance of Mr Ps holding was sold at a share price of 4.55p. That realised £17,036.50,
taking into account the administration charge of £26. That meant the investment had
returned, in total, £22,011.50, an overall loss of £49,238.50.
On 3 July 2019 his shares in Globe Capital Ltd were sold. The price per share had fallen to
0.8p. He realised £8,850 less an administration fee of £25, making a net amount of £8,825.
That was a loss of £23,353.60.
By 9 July 2019, £278,042.47 and £268.23 had been paid back to the SIPP bank account
from the DFM portfolio. A residual amount was retained from dividend payments which were
received.
In August 2019, through his then representative, Mr P complained to Coffey Brooks.
It didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 4 October 2019 it said it
wasnt responsible for the implementation of the Momentum SIPP or the SPS or transferring
the Momentum SIPP to the SPS SIPP. It recommended maintaining the SPS as it held funds
which werent due to be liquidated until 2022. Additional fees wouldve been incurred if a
different arrangement was to be implemented, either instead of or in addition to the SPS
SIPP.
Coffey Brooks said the investment proposed by SHF  the DFMs balanced portfolio  was in
line with Mr Ps risk profile  five out of ten. Subsequent to SHFs recommendation, Mr P had
corresponded directly with the DFM and had adopted a different investment approach.
Coffey Brooks said Mr P might want to complain to the DFM (as well as to the firm
responsible for the pension transfers).
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look into what had happened and the part played
by SHF/Mr M.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said hed spoken to Mr P and hed been clear that,
throughout the process, from the initial transfer to the investments arranged through the
DFM, he was being advised by Mr M. As well as face to face contact, Mr M had signed the
application forms and verified Mr Ps identity. The issue was the investments purchased
through the DFM  NQ Minerals, Globe Capital Limited and Clean Tech - which werent part
of the balanced portfolio.NQ Minerals specialises in exploration of minerals. Globe Capital Limiteds main subsidiary
focuses on selling new build UK property to the Chinese, Indian and African community.
Clean Techs business is the exclusive import and distribution of Accoya Wood in the China
and Asian markets. The investigator said the investments were involved in niche operations
and were individually high risk. Having a large amount invested in such holdings would be
wholly unsuitable for a balanced investor such as Mr P.
The investigator didnt think Mr P wouldve been aware of those investments without the
involvement of an adviser. Although Coffey Brooks had said SHFs adviser (Mr M) didnt
arrange them, Mr M had been involved at a time when the remainder of the funds had been
invested in the DFMs balanced portfolio. Mr M was listed on the application form, was an
authorised advice and was copied into the instruction Mr P sent to the DFM. Any
amendment to the original recommendation shouldve been documented by Mr M. But in any
event, the investments werent suitable for Mr P and shouldnt have gone ahead.
Coffey Brooks is responsible for what its AR does. Mr P was likely to suffer substantial
losses as a result of the ARs unsuitable advice. Coffey Brooks should redress Mr P for the
investments hed made  which the investigator identified as Clean Tech, Globe Capital Ltd,
NQ Minerals, Via Developments and Cherry Homes. The investigator set out how Coffey
Brooks should calculate redress. He said Coffey Brooks should also pay Mr P £300 for the
upset caused by arranging unsuitable investments which had led to losses. Coffey Brooks
said the complaint should be directed to the DFM.
Coffey Brooks asked the investigator to reconsider. It said the advice had come from the
DFM, whod been employed to do the investing. Mr P had been in contact with a Mr W from
the DFM as well as with another very senior officer at the DFM.
The investigator asked for evidence in support of that. Coffey Brooks pointed to what Mr M
had said  that Mr W had proposed a full portfolio spread for Mr Ds fund including share
purchases in NQ Minerals PLC, Globe Capital Ltd, Cleantech Building Materials PLC, Cherry
and Via Developments. It said Mr W worked for the DFM, specialising in model portfolios
and also managing a broking desk involved in equities, bonds and funds for various
regulated platforms and institutions. And he was involved in several other financial
companies, including an advisory and investment firm as well as being a hedge fund
manager.
On the other hand, Mr M was a newly qualified adviser. It was more likely that the share
purchases formed part of the balanced portfolio advised by Mr W, an experienced
investment manager. Although Mr P understood that Mr M gave the advice, Mr M was acting
on instructions from Mr W as the appointed DFM.
We asked the DFM what had happened and why the portfolio that Mr P had indicated in his
email of 8 October 2018 wasnt set up  in particular the Cherry Homes and Via
Developments investments werent made. The DFM told us:
It had only ever had an execution account with Mr P and it hadnt advised on any of
the investments.
Mr P had emailed (on 8 October 2018) with Mr M copied in. Mr P requested to invest
nearly 60% of his portfolio into higher risk investments, including two unlisted 
schemes  Via Developments and Cherry Homes. The DFM had contacted Mr M and
explained that it wouldnt execute instructions to invest more than about 30% of any
retail clients portfolio into high risk investments and, in accordance with the
restrictions outlined by SPS, the SIPP trustees wont purchase any unlisted
investments. The other investments were purchased and the remainder of the fund
invested in the DFMs balanced portfolio. The DFM cant produce any telephone records or correspondence to evidence what
it told Mr M. But the fact that the Via Developments and Cherry Homes investments
werent made evidences what it says happened.
The DFM had written to Mr P on 1 November 2018. The letter welcomed him as a
client and confirmed safe receipt of the £430,000. It continued to say that, in
accordance with his instructions, the DFM had adopted a core and satellite approach,
with at least 70% allocated to its in house managed balanced model and up to 30%
invested in instruments of Mr Ps choosing on an execution only basis. For the core
model allocation, Mr P had indicated a balanced approach with a medium term time
horizon of between five and ten years with a medium attitude to risk.
A copy of an email sent to Mr P on 6 March 2019 was also supplied. The email
followed his telephone call to the DFM. After confirming the fees Mr P was being
charged, the email said that now Mr P could access again his portfolio on line hed
see there were two pools of capital, the DFMs balanced model and other execution
investments. The email continued:
Given our discussion, it would be useful to summarise the history of the account to
date. We set up your account on an execution basis and we were originally instructed
to invest 40% of your SIPP into our model balanced portfolio and 60% into specific
non model investments provided by your IFA, [Mr M], which you kindly forwarded to
us by email last year. However, as we only accepted portfolios where up to 30%
could be invested in non model stocks, when the initial trades into Clean Tech, Globe
and NQ shares had been made on your behalf, we prevented (on the basis of risk)
any further non model purchases. We then allocated the core 70% (or around
£300,000) to our balanced model and wrote to confirm this to you in our letter of 1st
November.
However, we were then asked by [Mr M] to set aside £30,000 to cover your potential
drawdowns over the next 12 months and as the non model investments had already
been made on your behalf, this cash was withheld from the model allocation, which
was then still held as cash due to uncertainties in the market.
The investments into the model were subsequently made and this remains the
current position. I have attached a copy of the balanced model fact sheet as at
December for your information.
My subsequent conversations with were that the position had changed and he
requested we try and sell without loss the non model investments in Clean Tech,
Globe and NQ and invest solely in the balanced model. As these shares are now
lower than the original purchase price we have as yet been unable to sell, but this
remains an open instruction and as soon as we can, these shares will be sold on
your behalf.
As it wasnt possible to settle the complaint, its been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision as, although my findings are the same as the
investigators, since the investigator issued his view, weve obtained some further evidence
from the DFM. And Ive referred to an email sent by the adviser to Mr P on 5 October 2018
which didnt feature in the investigators view. Ive also clarified how Coffey Brooks needs to
redress Mr P, given that only some of the investments that the investigator included in his
redress went ahead.We havent considered the OPS transfers in 2017. They werent on SHFs advice. Nor have
we considered the investment that wasnt due to mature until 2022 as that investment had
been made before Mr Ps dealings with SHF. And, like the investigator, I dont see that it was
unreasonable for Mr P to combine his two SIPPs which, it seems hed tried to do earlier.
The advice given by SHF as set out in its recommendation letter dated 20 July 2018 was
reasonable. As the investigator said, Mr P had an existing SIPP predominantly in cash and
he needed to generate growth and income for the medium to long term. Recommending a
DFM for a portfolio in excess of £400,000 was reasonable. It seems the DFMs balanced
portfolio was suitable for Mr P. It was well diversified and matched his attitude to risk. Over
the six month or so period it was in place there was a modest increase in value.
The problem is the investments held outside the DFM portfolio  Globe Capital Ltd, NQ
Minerals and Clean Tech. I agree with what the investigator said about those investments 
they are all involved in niche operations and individually are high risk. The same is true for
the other two investments  Via Developments and Cherry Homes which didnt go ahead.
 
The original plan was for some 60% of Mr Ps portfolio to be invested in non mainstream,
specialist, higher risk funds. I dont think that was suitable for a balanced or medium risk
investor such as Mr P. In the end, the Via Developments and Cherry Homes investments
werent made. But that still left Mr P with some £133,303 (over 30% of his investable SIPP
fund) held in higher risk, unusual and non mainstream investments. I dont think that was
suitable for a medium risk investor such as Mr P. The issue is how Mr P came to be invested
in those higher risk funds  Clean Tech, NQ Minerals and Globe Capital Ltd.
Coffey Brooks initially told our investigator that SHF wasnt involved in those investments
and that Mr P dealt direct with the DFM. If SHF wasnt involved in those investments  that
is, Mr M didnt recommend them or take any other steps such as arranging them  then
SHF/Coffey Brooks wont be responsible for any losses Mr P has made in connection with
those investments.
But it seems Mr M was involved to some extent at least in the investments: His email to Mr P
on 5 October 2018 and Mr Ps email of 8 October 2018 to the DFM appear to show that the
investments had been suggested by Mr M. Coffey Brooks says that isnt the case and that
Mr M was acting on instructions from the DFM  that is Mr W.
Where what has happened isnt agreed and the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I
consider is most likely to have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
Coffey Brooks has suggested that, given Mr Ms inexperience, contrasted with Mr Ws
knowledge and expertise, its likely that the recommendation for the other investments came
from Mr W, not Mr M. That could have been the case. But I have to decide what happened
taking into account all the available evidence.
The investments outside the DFMs balanced portfolio arent mentioned in SHFs suitability
report dated 20 July 2018. But the report sets out that SHF is advising on the £437,077.60
held in cash (not including the funds not due to be liquidated until 2022) of which SHF
recommended that £430,000 be invested. So, on the face of it, SHF was advising as to how
Mr Ps entire SIPP fund (less the funds specified) was to be invested.
Theres no separate recommendation letter from SHF which deals with the investments to be
held outside the DFMs balanced portfolio. But Mr Ps evidence is that Mr M advised him in
connection with the investments. I agree with the investigator that Mr P is unlikely to haveidentified those investments for himself. Mr P wasnt a sophisticated or particularly
experienced investor. The investments were unusual and I think Mr P wouldve only known
about them and been prepared to invest if hed been steered towards them by an adviser.
Theres no dispute that Mr M recommended the investment via the DFM. And the DFMs
application form confirmed Mr Ms role as Mr Ps adviser. Given that Mr M was in place as
Mr Ps adviser at the relevant time and Mr Ms involvement in Mr Ps pension arrangements
generally, I think it would be logical if the other investments were introduced by Mr M, which
is what Mr P says happened.
The investigator referred to Mr Ps email of 8 October 2018. That email was preceded by an
email from Mr M on 5 October 2018, attaching a proposed portfolio for Mr Ps SIPP  a
detailed breakdown with some five investments in addition to the money to be managed by
the DFM and a cash reserve. Mr M set out the rationale behind the portfolio  to provide
liquidity, the growth required and to meet Mr Ps balanced risk profile. Mr M suggests some
adjustment can be made if Mr P thinks the portfolio contains too much UK property. The
clear indication is that the portfolio has been designed by Mr M and he is recommending that
Mr P invest as set out.
Advising on investments is defined as advice which is given to a person in his capacity as an
investor or potential investor and which is advice on, amongst other things, buying or
subscribing for a particular investment. I think the advisers email amount to investment
advice. It supports what Mr P has said about Mr M having recommended the investments. I
assume the email was sent following earlier discussions between Mr P and Mr M during
which its likely that oral advice was given. Mr Ps email to the DFM on 8 October 2018
confirms that Mr P is acting on Mr Ms instructions in confirming approval of the investments
and saying that the DFM can proceed with them.
Coffey Brooks has suggested that, even if Mr M was involved in the correspondence  and I
think it is clear that he was  he didnt provide any advice. But Mr Ms email suggests
otherwise. On the face of it the investments were made on advice from Mr M and the
portfolio has been constructed by him. I cant see why Mr M wouldve emailed Mr P as he did
if Mr P had selected the investments for himself. Or if theyd been suggested by someone
else  theres nothing to indicate that Mr M was acting on behalf of anyone else or that the
investments had been directed by a third party. If that had been the case, Id have expected
Mr M to have made that clear. The same is true if he hadnt provided any advice. In either
case, Id have thought hed have wanted to disassociate himself from the advice and any
possibility that he/SHF might be held responsible for the investments, should they not
perform as expected.
Weve also (as Ive mentioned above) asked the DFM about what happened. It has denied
any involvement, except as set out and which doesnt extend to the recommending the
investments outside the DFMs balanced portfolio. So theres nothing to support what Mr M
has said about acting on the instructions of the DFM or that it was directing the investments.
It would have been helpful had the DFM been able to evidence what it says it told Mr M
when the account was opened  about the permitted proportion of investments outside the
managed portfolio and that unlisted investments werent acceptable. A call recording
shouldve put that beyond doubt. As would an email from the DFM at the time confirming its
position.
But the DFM did set out in its email to Mr P on 6 March 2019 what had happened. That was
after the event. But, if Mr P didnt agree, then I think hed have gone back to the DFM and
challenged what it had said. And what the DFM has said is consistent with the letter it sent to
Mr P on 1 November 2018 when the account was set up and saying that only 30% of the
fund could be invested, on an execution only basis, outside the DFMs in house managedbalance portfolio. Further the Via Developments and Cherry Homes investments werent
made. I think it would be odd for the DFM, had it been driving the other investments, to have
selected funds which it knew couldnt be made.
All in all I think the evidence supports what Mr P has said about Mr M having advised him
about the investments. I think Mr P only invested as he did because those investments had
been recommended by Mr M. As Ive said, I dont think the investments were suitable for Mr
P. That means SHF (or Coffey Brooks as its principal) is responsible for the investments and
the losses, which are substantial, incurred by Mr P in connection with those investments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Coffey Brooks said that the role of the DFM and in particular Mr W should be looked into 
further. It said Mr W was more involved in steering Mr Ps investment decisions than Coffey 
Brooks very inexperienced adviser. Id said that the advice to invest in the managed portfolio 
was correct. It was after that initial advice had been given that Mr W had become more 
involved. 
Coffey Brooks said it had concerns about how the three funds outside the advised portfolio 
were sourced. In particular how the 177,000 shares in Globe Capital Limited had been 
bought and the share price paid. Coffey Brooks said it couldnt find a trade of those shares 
on 11 October 2018. It had found a trade on 3 July 2019 at a price of 0.5p. But it queried 
how the shares had initially been bought and set out its suspicions as to how that had 
happened. Coffey Brooks suggested we needed to find out more about where the initial 
trade on 11 October 2018 was made and the process of the sale. 
My decision was based on the balance of probability. But it wasnt likely that Mr M, who Id 
agreed was a very inexperienced adviser, was the driving force behind the investments in 
the obscure funds that were put in front of Mr P. On the balance of probabilities, the funds 
were proposed by Mr W. Id said that Mr P wouldnt have known about the three funds 
without the involvement of an adviser. But, as a new adviser, Mr M wouldnt have known 
about them either. Which again suggests that the DFM was the driving force behind those 
funds. Coffey Brooks said there were many points which required further investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id emphasise that all Im considering here is Coffey Brooks part in the matter. Weve made 
enquiries of the DFM. Thats to the extent necessary to decide a complaint made about 
Coffey Brooks. We arent investigating any complaint about the DFM. Im satisfied I can fairly 
decide the complaint against Coffey Brooks based on the information and evidence that Ive 
seen. 
Coffey Brooks considers it unlikely that its adviser was the driving force behind the 
investments. But, on the face of it, the advisers email of 5 October 2018 shows he was 
recommending the investments set out. So, to that extent, my decision isnt based on 
probabilities. But rather on the contemporaneous written evidence which shows the adviser 
recommended the investments in respect of which Mr P has suffered substantial losses. And 
which evidence supports what Mr P has said about what happened and how the investments 
came to be made. 
Mr P then, following that advice, emailed the DFM on 8 October 2018 instructing the DFM to 
invest as Mr P had been advised by the adviser. If, as Coffey Brooks suggests, the DFM was behind the investments, then Id expect Mr P to have contacted the DFM direct. Coffey 
Brooks initially said was what had happened. But the evidence  what Mr P says and the 
advisers email of 5 October 2018  indicates otherwise and that, contrary to what Coffey 
Brooks asserted, the investments were recommended by Mr M.  
Coffey Brooks suggests that I should look behind that email and whether it was in fact driven 
by the DFM. But weve asked the DFM about what happened and it has explained its part in 
the matter.  And theres no suggestion in the advisers email that he was acting on 
instructions from or investment suggestions made by the DFM. 
If the recommendation had come from someone else then Id have expected the adviser to 
have made that clear in his email. Even taking into account that he wasnt experienced, I 
think hed have known, if the investments didnt perform as expected or that there was some 
question about their suitability, that he/SHF could be held responsible for investments that it 
appeared he was recommending. I think hed have taken steps to make the position clear or 
told Mr P that he needed to deal direct with the DFM. 
Coffey Brooks has suggested there were irregularities in the purchase of the shares in Globe 
Capital Ltd. No similar suggestion has been made in respect of the other investments. And, 
in any event, I think the point is that Mr P instructed the shares to be bought following a 
recommendation given by Mr M. The DFM complied with Mr Ps instruction and bought the 
shares. I dont think Coffey Brooks can avoid responsibility for unsuitable investments which, 
from the evidence Ive seen, were purchased on its advice by alleging that the purchase of 
one of the recommended investments may in some way have been irregular. 
Id add that if Coffey Brooks considers that another party, such as the DFM, is responsible 
for Mr Ps losses, either fully or in part, then Coffey Brooks can presumably pursue that 
party. I dont see that Mr P, if his losses are met in full by Coffey Brooks, would decline to 
assign any rights he may have against any other party, to Coffey Brooks.  
My views remain as set out in my provisional decision and recapped above. Ive repeated 
below what I said about how Mr P should be redressed. 
Putting things right
Mr P has been able to redeem (albeit at a loss) his holdings in Globe Capital Ltd and NQ 
Minerals. I dont think its been possible to sell the Clean Tech shares. Im assuming Mr Ps 
SIPP retains that investment. Ive seen a valuation as at 8 October 2020 of £25,844.79. But 
as my understanding is that the investment remains illiquid whether any value will ultimately 
be returned may be doubtful. As set out below, Coffey Brooks will need to purchase that 
investment or, if it cant or is unwilling to do that, give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P as close as possible
to the position hed probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr P wouldve invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he
wouldve done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr
P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Coffey Brooks do?
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. Ifthe actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If theres a loss,
it should be paid into Mr Ps pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the
compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Coffey Brooks is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ps pension plan, it should pay
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance
should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected
retirement age. For example, I think Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,
so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P wouldve been
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the
compensation.
In addition, Coffey Brooks should pay Mr P £300 for the upset caused by arranging
unsuitable investments which have led to losses.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
Clean Tech, 
Globe Capital 
Limited,
NQ Mineralsmixed FTSE UK
Private 
Investorsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot 
applicable
Income Total
Return Index
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, any of the listed investments are illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So,
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Coffey Brooks
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable
to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the
balance paid as above.
If Coffey Brooks is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Coffey Brooks may wish to require that Mr P
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Coffey Brooks will need to meet any costs in
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be
added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all those payments are totalled and that figure
deducted at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take
some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of
comparison given Mr P 's circumstances and risk attitude.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Coffey Brooks Financial Services Ltd must redress Mr P as Ive set 
out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman