DRN-3207751
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) overdraft charges were unfair and 
made her financial hardship worse.
What happened
Mrs T complained to Barclays that its overdraft charges were unfair and causing her financial 
difficulty. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ts concerns and reached the conclusion Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mrs T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mrs T has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at Barclayss various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs T if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs Ts account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mrs T was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mrs T fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mrs Ts statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Barclays ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
it being notified of this. 
Mrs T may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs Ts 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
I can also see regular payments into the hundreds for school fees. Whilst I accept payment 
for school fees may well have been a contractual commitment, but I can also see the 
payments take place over a number of years. So with this in mind I think its likely Mrs T had 
time to make alternative arrangements should she have chosen to do so if the school fees 
were no longer affordable.  
And even though Mrs Ts salary fluctuated, I can see there were still regular deposits of 
salary and cash transfers into the account and Mrs T was able to bring the overdraft down 
before once again going on to use her overdraft to make debit card transactions and further 
money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I wasnt experiencing 
financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to 
have alerted Barclays to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to 
Mrs Ts account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her 
seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Ts account was being 
used. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Barclays treated Mrs T unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs T  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman