DRN-3872730
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank plc had long wait times for business 
telephone banking which led to issues accessing business funds when needed. 
What happened
C says that since the start of COVID, it has experienced wait times for business telephone 
banking of between 90 and 120 minutes. And it has frequently had the call drop out when 
being passed to another department. In addition to this, it says that any callbacks that are 
requested are at unscheduled times and if they are missed, another is not carried out. 
HSBC previously awarded C £40 in recognition of the long wait times that have occurred, 
which was a known issue to them. C disagreed and felt an offer of around £20,000 was more 
reasonable, considering the time spent on the phone trying to get through could have been 
spent on the business. 
The complaint was referred to our service. The investigator looked into it and issued a view 
explaining that it is not within our remit as an organisation to recommend HSBC change its 
processes. And that the £40 offered and paid so far was a fair offer for the delays C had 
experienced. C disagreed with this and felt it didnt fully take into account the amount of time 
spent waiting on the phone in the previous two years. The investigator went back to HSBC 
and recommended an additional £60 compensation, which HSBC agreed to as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
C did not agree with the increased offer of a total of £100 compensation for the delays. As 
an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the total offer of £100 is fair in the circumstances, and I wont 
be asking HSBC to do anything further to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail. 
C has said it had to spend many hours on the phone when it had a query which could not be 
answered on the online chat function. It initially said it spend more than 215 hours on the 
phone in the previous two years, and later said it spent dozens of hours on the phone. 
HSBC has provided evidence of C raising call wait times in two separate phone calls as 
complaint points. One in June 2021 and again in July 2021. In the calls C mentioned that in 
the July call it spent two and a half hours trying to get through, whereas in the June call the 
hold time was 20 minutes. 
Ive thought about this carefully. I accept its likely C did have to spend many hours on the 
telephone trying to resolve everyday banking issues for the business. But, given the impacts 
of the COVID pandemic, I think it wouldnt have been alone on this. Most businesses faced a 
significant impact on their ability to provide the service theyd liked to have provided. But this 
was out of their control. HSBC has said this has been a huge challenge for them since the 
start of the pandemic, which has meant more and more customers using telephone banking 
due to branches being closed and restrictions being applied. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably require HSBC to compensate C for the fact there were long wait times on 
telephone calls.
But HSBC has recognised there were other failings in calls being dropped mid-call  which it 
has evidence of on file. And considering this, I think the offer already made along with the 
additional gesture of goodwill, bringing the total to £100, is reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I dont think it needs to do anything further to remedy the situation.  
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank plcs offer of £100 is fair in the circumstances and I dont require it to do 
anything further to remedy Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc should now pay C any 
compensation owed if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman