DRN-3079850
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the transfer of his personal pension from The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme 
(QROPS) in 2016. 
Mr J, who has professional representation in bringing this complaint, says he lost his entire 
pension as a result of the transfer. He is complaining about Royal London because he says 
he wouldnt have transferred, and therefore wouldnt have put his pension savings at risk, if 
Royal London had acted in line with its responsibilities when he requested the transfer.
What happened
In early 2016, First Review Pension Services (which appears to be an unregulated 
introducer of investments to individuals) contacted Royal London requesting information on 
Mr Js personal pension. Mr J had previously given First Review his authorisation to 
approach Royal London. He says this followed a knock on the door  an unsolicited 
approach in other words  from First Review.
On 8 February 2016, Mr J signed a letter giving authority to Integrated Capabilities (Malta) 
Limited and Optimus Pension Administrators Limited (OPAL) to contact Royal London 
about the transfer of his personal pension to the Optimus Retirement Benefit Scheme No.1 
(the Optimus Scheme), a Maltese QROPS. Integrated Capabilities were acting as 
administrators for the Optimus Scheme, with OPAL providing certain administrative functions 
on behalf of Integrated Capabilities. OPAL was operating from the Isle of Man. Mr J also said 
in his authorisation letter that he wanted to transfer with no further delays.
OPAL wrote to Royal London on 22 February to request the transfer. It attached Royal 
Londons overseas transfer forms, two HMRC forms (CA1890 and APSS263) and provided 
bank details for the transfer payment. The letter also said the Optimus Scheme information 
booklet had been attached, along with documents from the Maltese authorities relating to the 
registration of the scheme. Mr Js 8 February letter may also have been attached, or that 
letter may have been sent separately  either way, Royal London received the letter 
because its in its casefile.
On 1 March Royal London emailed OPAL asking for a completed copy of its QROPS 
checklist and HMRC QROPS registration letter. OPAL provided these on 11 March 2016. 
On 6 April Royal London wrote to Mr Js home address saying it needed to speak with him 
before it could action his transfer request. A telephone call took place on 12 April. A 
recording of that call is no longer available although Royal Londons customer contact 
records confirm it did take place. 
The following day, Royal London wrote to Mr J stressing the potential tax charges and loss 
of protection from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) that would result 
from transferring a pension overseas. The letter also summarised what had been discussed 
during the call, which included Mr Js confirmation that he understood the tax implications 
and loss of FSCS protection that would result from a transfer. The letter also said Mr J 
wanted to transfer in order to invest in overseas property, had been cold called and wasnt 
intending to move overseas in the near future. Royal London also says it sent Mr J the 
regulators pension scam warning leaflet (the scorpion leaflet  so called because of the 
imagery it used) with this letter. 
On 26 April, Mr J called Royal London to say he didnt want to proceed with the transfer. On 
17 May, he wrote to Royal London to say he did want to go ahead after all. Royal London 
sent a form for Mr J to sign to confirm he understood tax charges might apply because he 
was moving his pension overseas whilst remaining resident in the UK. The form also 
indemnified Royal London from any tax and/or sanction charges that could be levied against 
it. Mr J signed the form on 27 May and Mr Js pension was transferred shortly afterwards. 
Mr J was 54 at the time of transfer.
Mr Js representatives say his investment has failed and his pension now has no value. 
Mr J, through his representatives, complained to Royal London in 2019. His representatives 
said, in brief, that Royal London didnt warn Mr J about potential pension scams or send the 
scorpion leaflet. They said Royal London didnt do enough to ensure the transfer was 
suitable or do enough to ensure Mr J had taken independent financial advice. They said 
providers had a duty to check advice had been given when safeguarded benefits of more 
than £30,000 are transferred  which they said applied in Mr Js case. They said the transfer 
shouldnt have proceeded because it was inherently risky. And they said Royal London didnt 
adhere to its regulators principles. 
Royal London didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the Optimus Scheme was on 
HMRCs QROPS list. It discussed the transfer with Mr J and confirmed the details of that call 
with him in a follow-up letter. It said that letter reminded Mr J that he might incur additional 
tax charges as a result of transferring overseas and that he would lose protection from the 
FSCS. Royal London said it sent him a copy of the scorpion leaflet. And it said it couldnt 
refuse Mr Js transfer.   
Mr Js complaint was referred to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He 
thought Royal London had conducted the checks expected of it at the time, had given Mr J 
sufficient warning about some of the dangers of transferring to a QROPS and sent the 
scorpion leaflet which warned about the dangers of pension scams.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, there are number of factual errors in the complaint points raised by Mr Js 
representatives at various points. For instance, Mr J didnt transfer to a SIPP. He didnt have 
safeguarded benefits of over £30,000. Royal London wasnt acting as a financial adviser and 
therefore cant be found to have failed Mr J in not providing financial advice. Similarly, COBS 
19.1.6 isnt a consideration here.
With this in mind, I wont address every point Mr Js representatives have made. Suffice to 
say, I have considered everything both parties have said. I will focus my decision on those 
issues I consider to be relevant to the complaints outcome.What was the relevant guidance and rules?
The scorpion guidance
On 14 February 2013, The Pensions Regulator launched anti-pension liberation guidance  
pension liberation being the access of pension funds in a manner not authorised for tax 
purposes or before a persons normal minimum pension age. The guidance was updated in 
July 2014, March 2015 and March 2016. The updates were broader in scope than just 
pension liberation, encompassing pension scams in general. 
The March 2016 version is the one thats relevant here. Its key components were:
An action pack for scheme administrators with a list of five actions to help protect 
members, a checklist to be used when someone asks for a transfer and some 
suggested next steps when potential scam risks presented themselves. It also 
referenced the Code of Good Practice, another piece of guidance that I discuss below. 
The scorpion insert to issue to members following a transfer request. The insert warns 
the reader about accessing a pension before the age of 55, cold calls, one-off 
investment opportunities, being promised returns of over 8%, putting money into a 
single investment, transferring funds overseas and using couriers to encourage people 
to sign transfer documents without pause for thought. 
A longer leaflet  the scorpion leaflet  covering in more detail the same ground as the 
scorpion insert. This was intended to be sent in member communications, such as 
annual pension statements, to help educate members about pension scams.
The scorpion campaign was a cross-government initiative which included the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA) so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers 
such as Royal London which come under FCA regulation.
Combating Pension Scams  A Code of Good Practice (March 2015)
Like the scorpion campaign, the Code of Good Practice (the Code) is a relevant 
consideration for personal pension providers because the FCA was one of the organisations 
that formally welcomed the Code. The FCA was also part of the scorpion initiative which 
highlighted the Code.  
The Codes overall approach is similar to the scorpion guidance in so far as it would usually 
expect a scheme to ask a transferring member questions in order to establish the potential 
risk of a scam and follow various steps when that risk couldnt be discounted. The Code also 
expected schemes to use the scorpion materials when sending transfer packs and pension 
statements. However, the Code is more detailed than the scorpion guidance. For instance, 
unlike the scorpion guidance, it does reference QROPS and its guidance varies depending 
on the type of scheme (occupational scheme, SIPP, SSAS or a QROPS) a member wants to 
transfer to. Theres also more guidance for schemes attempting to block a transfer.
FCA Principles
In addition to endorsing the guidance outlined above, the FCA has set out principles for firms 
to follow, the most relevant here being:
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also consider COBS 2.1.1R to be relevant here. It states that a firm must act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
I think it was appropriate for Royal London to have regard for COBS 2.1.1R and the 
principles when considering Mr Js transfer.
Did Royal London do enough?
Royal London has provided us with copies of the materials it says it sent to Mr J, which 
includes the scorpion leaflet. I consider it more likely than not that this leaflet was sent to 
Mr J when it wrote to him on 13 April 2016 following its conversation with him the previous 
day. I say this because Royal London was showing diligence in conducting this phone call so 
it would be surprising if its diligence didnt extend as far as completing the less onerous task 
of enclosing a standard leaflet when it wrote to Mr J. I can also see the scorpion leaflet in 
Royal Londons casefile. This doesnt prove it was sent at the time of course, but I think its 
presence in the casefile makes it more likely that it was sent. Sending scorpion materials 
was an expectation of both the scorpion guidance and the Code so, all things considered, 
Im satisfied Royal London fulfilled this part of its obligations.
In addition, both the scorpion guidance and the Code expected personal pension providers 
to conduct further due diligence in order to better understand whether a transfer carried with 
it the risk of a scam. Whilst those due diligence expectations overlap to a certain extent, they 
are, ultimately, separate and need to be considered discretely. 
But before I do this, its worth noting that an overseas pension must meet certain 
requirements in order to receive QROPS status. HMRC maintains a list of schemes meeting 
those requirements. Mr Js receiving scheme was on that list at the time of the transfer and 
had been from 2014. It remains on that list to this day. If scam activity had come to light in 
that eight-year period it would, most likely, have been taken off the list. So, even if Royal 
Londons due diligence wasnt thorough enough, Im satisfied it wouldnt have found 
sufficient evidence of there being a scam-risk (or reason to block the transfer) even if its due 
diligence had been more comprehensive. 
This doesnt mean the due diligence process is an irrelevance here. Contacting the member 
is seen as an important step in both the scorpion guidance and the Code, and the latter is 
aware of the strong possibility that a member could unilaterally decide to stop a transfer 
following questions from the transferring scheme. So Royal London had to do more than just 
establish whether there was a risk of a scam. It had to do this and be aware that its contact 
with the member could, potentially, help that member with their decision making.
Code of Good Practice
Under the Code, certain transfers wouldnt have needed further due diligence  for instance, 
those coming from an accepted club (such as the Public Sector Transfer Club). But 
because those considerations dont apply here, Royal London had to conduct further 
diligence into Mr Js transfer. 
Royal London would already have had some information about Mr J and his transfer. It 
would have known his age (54) and country of residence (UK) for instance. It also had confirmation that the receiving scheme was on HMRCs QROPS list. And the transfer 
paperwork would have provided further information on the receiving scheme. For instance, 
the scheme information booklet showed members were prohibited from accessing their 
pensions before the age of 55. 
The Code expected the transferring scheme to answer a number of questions about the 
transfer and the members reasons for requesting it:
Will you be receiving any cash payment, bonus, commission or loan from the receiving 
scheme or its administrators, as a result of transferring your benefits?
Did the receiving scheme/adviser or sales agents/representatives for the receiving 
scheme make the first contact (e.g. a cold call)?
Have you been told that you can access any part of your pension fund under the 
receiving scheme before age 55, other than on the grounds of ill-health?
Have you been told that you will be able to draw a higher tax free cash sum as a result of 
transferring?
Have you been promised a specific/guaranteed rate of return?
Have you been informed of an overseas investment opportunity?
The Code says transferring schemes should contact the transferring member to help answer 
the questions. Royal London did this, calling Mr J on 12 April 2016. As a result, Royal 
London also found out that Mr J was:
transferring in order to invest in overseas property;
wasnt looking to move overseas;
had been cold called.
The Code suggested further action if there was a yes to any of the questions listed above. 
Clearly that applied here  Mr J was (at the very least) cold called and had been informed of 
an overseas investment opportunity. 
In terms of further action, one of the Codes suggestions was to write to HMRC to query the 
status of the receiving scheme. A second option was to use intelligence from law 
enforcement agencies. It doesnt look like Royal London took these steps. That isnt 
automatically a cause for concern. The Code didnt want transferring schemes to needlessly 
tie up resource at agencies like HMRC. And, as discussed above, its unlikely that research 
along those lines would have given Royal London grounds for thinking a scam risk was 
present. 
However Royal London did need to take account of the third option put forward by the Code. 
This was headed further due diligence which leads on to a detailed QROPS section. 
Although the Code suggests the expected level of due diligence will vary on a case-by-case 
basis, I think it would be remiss of a transferring scheme to ignore the steps outlined in its 
QROPS section. These included:  
re-checking HMRCs QROPS list on the date of the transfer;verifying the transfer is being paid to the scheme on the HMRC list and not a scheme with 
a near-identical name (a clone scheme);
establishing whether the QROPS was an occupational or personal pension;
considering the rationale for moving funds offshore;
ensuring the transferring member has lodged a completed APSS263 form.
Im satisfied Mr Js receiving scheme was on the QROPS list at the time of the transfer, 
payment was made to that scheme and the APSS263 form was provided. Details of the 
scheme were also provided through the provision of the schemes information booklet and 
trust deed. My copies of these documents are difficult to read but I dont consider their 
contents critical to the outcome of the complaint. Their presence in Royal Londons casefile 
is important, though, in so far as it shows it did have the necessary information with which to 
assess the transfer and does show the receiving scheme was regulated in its home country. 
Royal London also knew Mr Js rationale for moving funds offshore  it was to facilitate 
investment in overseas property.  
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied Royal London met the expectations of the Code.  
Scorpion action pack
The March 2016 scorpion action pack says transferring schemes should carry out due 
diligence on all transfer requests. A checklist of questions is provided to assist with this and, 
like the Code, contacting the member is an integral part of this process. The checklist of 
questions is similar to that of the Code, covering areas like scheme registration, whether the 
member was cold called and what their intended investments were. Im satisfied there arent 
any substantive differences between the scorpion checklist and the Code in relation to the 
areas the transferring scheme needed to check. So I think Royal Londons telephone call 
with Mr J, combined with the paperwork it received during the transfer process and its 
checking of the HMRC QROPS list gave Royal London the information it needed. 
There are similarities between the Code and the scorpion guidance in relation to what a 
transferring scheme needed to do when its due diligence process presented possible 
sources of concern which, reasonably, would have been the case here. For example, like the 
Code, the scorpion guidance suggests writing to HMRC to confirm the registration status of 
the receiving scheme. As I said before, it doesnt look like Royal London did this but doing so 
wouldnt have given Royal London reason to block the transfer. 
There are, however, two key differences between the Code and the scorpion guidance in 
terms of next steps. The scorpion guidance asks transferring schemes to direct members 
to Pension Wise and to The Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) for further help, which the 
Code doesnt do. And the scorpion guidance also says the following:
Proactively engage with members at riskContact any member who you believe may be at 
risk to establish whether they understand the implications of their transfer and clarify any 
points in the checklist tables. 
On the first point, Im satisfied Royal London sent Mr J the scorpion leaflet which did 
encourage transferring members to contact Pension Wise (if over 50) and TPAS.
On the second point, its finely balanced as to whether Royal London needed to engage 
Mr J as suggested. Royal London would have known Mr Js QROPS was on the HMRC list and it would have had confidence that Mr J wasnt seeking to access his pension before the 
age of 55  one of the most common potential scams and an area of focus for the regulator. 
Against this, Royal London would have known Mr J was moving his pension overseas 
despite having no intention of moving from the UK. It would have known Mr J was taking that 
action in order to invest in overseas property  a common vehicle for scam activity. And it 
would likely have known that he was being guided through the transfer process by 
unregulated entities. And, of course, the risk of a scam couldnt be discounted, irrespective 
of how credible the Optimus Scheme might have appeared. I think the FCA principles would 
also point to the need for Royal London to have engaged with Mr J about his plans given all 
these potential concerns. So, however I look at things, I come to the same conclusion which 
is that Royal London should, reasonably, have taken the next steps detailed in the guidance 
and contacted Mr J to establish whether he understood the implications of his transfer.  
Ive considered Royal Londons telephone call with Mr J on 12 April 2016 and the follow-up 
letter with this in mind. And Im satisfied Royal London fulfilled its obligations in this area. It 
wrote to him to let him know about the potential tax implications of transferring his pension 
overseas and about losing FSCS protection. And that letter appears to have reflected a 
telephone conversation the parties had the day before. And, of course, it sent the scorpion 
leaflet which would have warned Mr J about cold calls, promises of high returns, transferring 
funds overseas and undiversified investments, as well as more general warnings about 
pension scams. The scorpion leaflet also includes a recommendation to seek regulated 
financial advice or advice from Pension Wise and TPAS. 
Given all this, I think Royal London did do enough to establish that Mr J understood the 
implications of his transfer. The fact that Mr J contacted Royal London shortly afterwards to 
say he didnt want to transfer rather proves the point. Whilst I dont know why Mr J changed 
his mind, I think its reasonable to say the conversation between the parties on 12 April 
2016, Royal Londons follow-up letter and the scorpion leaflet did highlight to evident effect 
some of the key implications of what he was doing.
Mr Js change of mind
Mr J changed his mind again a short time later. Again, I dont know what prompted this. Mr J 
has told us he doesnt have strong recollections about this. Its possible he was persuaded 
by the parties acting for the receiving scheme to continue with the transfer. Or maybe he just 
reflected on his decision and thought his intended investment was too good an opportunity to 
miss out on. Either way, its important context in so far as it shows the momentum behind the 
transfer and the limited extent to which it seems Royal London could have influenced this. 
When Mr J changed his mind and requested a transfer, Royal London sent a form for him to 
sign to confirm he understood tax charges might apply because he was moving his pension 
overseas whilst remaining resident in the UK. The form also indemnified Royal London from 
any tax and/or sanction charges that could be levied against it. Mr J signed this form. Again, 
I think this is further evidence that Royal London did establish Mr Js understanding of the 
implications of his transfer. 
I recognise Mr Js representatives say Royal London should have done more at this point 
given Mr J had previously decided against the transfer. They say Royal London should have 
conducted checks into why Mr J changed his mind so as to ensure he wasnt harassed into 
the transfer or received undue pressure. But given that Mr J doesnt strongly recall what 
happened, I dont consider this a likely scenario. And, clearly, Mr J knew he didnt have to 
proceed with the transfer because he had previously told Royal London that he didnt want to 
continue. 
With all the above in mind, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman