DRN-3967082
The complaint
Mr R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2016, Mr R acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr R was required to make 47 monthly repayments of around £169. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £7,948.
Mr R says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search and that it verified 
Mr Rs income from his payslips. It said its checks showed that Mr R had existing borrowing 
of just under £3,000 and there were no recent missed payments. It did show that Mr R had 
defaulted on previous borrowing with the most recent default being three months prior to his 
application. It said there were no county court judgements in place and that its calculation 
showed the repayments were affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr R didnt agree and said that he was making frequent cash withdrawals to fund his 
gambling and that his partner had to take out high-cost loans to clear the arrears that had 
arisen when he missed payments. He said that he had multiple defaults before the lending 
was agreed. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed although it noted that 
Mr R had defaulted on previous borrowing with the most recent default being three months 
before his application. As I do not have a copy of Moneybarns credit check results Ive relied 
on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr R. Although this is a more recent report, it gives an 
indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. Based on the credit report provided 
Mr R had defaulted on four accounts within the six months previous to his application. I think 
this ought to have indicated that Mr R was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore 
would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr Rs financial circumstances before lending.
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn received copies of Mr Rs weekly payslips for 
December. I find this reasonable although given the term and size of the agreement it could 
have been reasonable to have requested income information for a slightly longer period. 
Moneybarn says it allowed an amount for Mr Rs non-discretionary spending, but I have 
nothing to show that it asked Mr R about his expenditure. Although it did complete a credit 
check, this wont have indicated what Mr Rs regular living expenses were. Without knowing 
what Mr Rs regular committed expenditure was, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. And noting that Mr R had 
experienced previous issues with making repayments I think it was important that 
Moneybarn gathered information about Mr Rs specific expenses rather than relying on an 
estimate. Therefore, Moneybarn didnt complete proportionate checks.
I cant be certain what Mr R would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Rs 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements provided for the three-month period prior to the 
application and although these dont cover the entire period, they give an indication of Mr Rs 
expenses. Additional to this I have considered the information Mr R has provided about his 
costs. These show that Mr Rs regular committed monthly expenditure at the time for costs 
such as his rent, bills and food appeared to be around £650. I note the comments Mr R has 
made about his gambling and I appreciate that this must have been a difficult time for him. 
However, in this case I do not find that Moneybarn should have been reasonably aware that 
Mr R was struggling with gambling at the time and I think even if further checks had been 
carried out it is unlikely this would have been identified. As Mr Rs income at the time was 
around £1,100, taking his expenses into account, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Mr R. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman