DRN-4190049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
they made under their Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of multiple flats. Damage has been 
caused to the common parts of the building, which means other leaseholders have been 
affected, in addition to Mr and Mrs G. However, this complaint has been brought by 
Mr and Mrs G only.
There has been extensive background to this complaint which I dont intend to repeat in full 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key issues in dispute which I need to decide. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either party, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and 
my role within it.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting as 
representatives or agents of either Mr and Mrs G or Amtrust. But for ease of reference, Ill 
only refer to Mr and Mrs G and Amtrust in this decision  even when referring to the actions 
or arguments of their representatives.
The complaint concerns Amtrusts decision to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim for damage to 
the render of their building caused by defects with the coping stones. Amtrust has declined 
the claim on the basis that it wasnt reported within the timescales required under the terms 
of the warranty.
Mr and Mrs G have raised several concerns with this position. Theyve argued that the 
issues only crystalised in 2022, so they couldnt have reported the claim any sooner than 
that. They say the final claim they made differs from the issues that were evident prior to that 
point. They say the damage is ultimately the result of construction issues covered under the 
warranty, and so they feel Amtrust should accept and settle the claim.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Gs complaint but he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said Mr and Mrs G were aware of issues with the render and coping stones 
within the first two years of the warranty as they had reported them to the developer. He 
explained that the terms of the warranty required Amtrust to be notified of any issues by no 
later than two years and six months from commencement of the cover  but in this case it 
wasnt notified until around four years after the commencement date. Our investigator 
explained that had Amtrust been notified of the issues earlier, it could have carried out 
investigations and identified the defect at the heart of the issues sooner. So, taking all of this 
into account, our investigator felt Amtrusts decision to decline the claim was in line with the 
policy terms and was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. So, because no agreement had been reached, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. I was minded to agree with the outcome reached by our 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision to give the 
parties the opportunity to respond before I reached a final decision. Heres what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail below.
Mr G is the chairman/director of his buildings residents association, but this position 
doesnt afford him the right to bring a claim or complaint as there is no policy issued 
to the residents association. However, Mr and Mrs G are also leaseholders and 
policyholders of a warranty for their own flat. So, they are entitled to bring a complaint 
about Amtrusts decision to decline the claim in their capacity as leaseholders. 
That is what I am considering under this complaint  what Mr and Mrs G are entitled 
to under their specific warranty. So, while it follows that what I say here would most 
likely apply to the separate (but essentially the same) complaints of the other 
leaseholders, my decision here only technically applies to the specific complaint 
brought by Mr and Mrs G under their own warranty.
The claim at the heart of this complaint relates to damage and defects in the common 
parts of Mr and Mrs Gs building. Mr and Mrs Gs warranty document sets out the 
cover and limitations with respect to claims of this nature:
COMMON PARTS
The maximum the Underwriter will pay for any claim relating to Common 
Parts will be the amount that the Policyholder has a legal liability to contribute 
towards the cost of repairs, rectification or rebuilding works. Claims are 
subject to the financial limits for the individual sections detailed above and the 
Excess as detailed in the Initial and Certificate of Insurance.
This means Mr and Mrs G are entitled to bring a complaint about the portion of the 
common parts they are responsible for under their lease.
Mr and Mrs Gs warranty is split into several sections of cover. These sections, and a 
claim being made under them, depend on when the issues first materialised, relative 
to when the warranty commenced. Amtrust has declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim on the 
basis that the issues were reported too late to be covered under section 3.2. 
The dates for the various sections of cover for Mr and Mrs Gs warranty are set out 
on their certificate of insurance as:
Section 3.2 from 25/09/2015 to 25/09/2017
Section 3.3 from 25/09/2017 to 25/09/2025
Section 3.4 from 25/09/2017 to 25/09/2025
Section 3.5 from 25/09/2017 to 25/09/2025
For claims under section 3.2 to be covered, the policyholder is required to report the 
issues to the developer within the dates for section 3.2, and to report them to Amtrust 
within six months of the expiry of section 3.2. Amtrust has confirmed these dates are 
the same on the certificates of insurance for each of the leaseholders in the building 
 which means they also apply to this common parts claim.Section 3.2 is also known as the Developers Insurance Period or DIP. Under this 
section, responsibility for remedying issues discovered during the relevant period 
rests with the developer, rather than Amtrust, in the first instance. But if the developer 
doesnt carry out repairs, then Amtrust is required to take over the claim in certain 
circumstances. This is explained within the warranty document (with my added 
emphasis on the key part relevant to Amtrusts claim decision in this case):
The Developers Responsibility during the Defects Insurance Period
The Developer is responsible for Defects that arise during the Defects 
Insurance Period. The Policyholder should notify their concerns to the 
Developer in writing as soon as possible after discovering the problem. The 
Policyholder should keep a copy of all correspondence for their records.
It is a condition precedent to payment of claims under this section of the 
Policy that concerns must be notified to the Developer in writing before the 
expiry of the Defects Insurance Period and if the Developer does not respond 
the Defects must be notified to the Scheme Administrator in writing within 6 
months of the expiry of the Defects Insurance Period. The Underwriter will 
have no liability if all matters are not notified within these time frames.
The warranty document goes on to explain the circumstances under which issues 
discovered during section 3.2 can become the responsibility of Amtrust (again with 
my added emphasis):
The underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during the Defects Insurance 
Period against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any Defect in the 
Housing Unit for which the Developer is responsible and which is discovered 
and notified to the Developer during the Defects Insurance Period and which 
is notified to the Underwriter within 6 months of the expiry of the Defects 
Insurance Period
The evidence Ive seen suggests that Mr and Mrs G were aware of issues with the 
rendering and coping stones in 2016  during the DIP. I say this because Mr G 
himself has said that staining and discolouration of the render and issues with the 
mortar between coping stones first materialised in 2016. So, based on this, Im 
satisfied that section 3.2 is the relevant section of cover for Mr and Mrs Gs claim for 
those issues.
Ive also considered what the relevant regulations have to say. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) states 
that an insurer should not reject a claim for breach of a condition or warranty unless 
the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. What this means is that 
unless the breach is material to the loss, Amtrust shouldnt rely on it to decline Mr 
and Mrs Gs claim. 
However, in this case, the condition required Mr and Mrs G to have notified Amtrust 
about the issues (which were present in 2016) by no later than 25 March 2018. The 
issues werent notified until September 2019 and, during this time, the damage to the 
property was getting worse as the staining developed into cracking and later to falling 
render/mortar. This means the potential cost to Amtrust of rectifying the issues was 
increasing with time, effectively prejudicing its position. Based on this, I consider that 
the late notification is material to the loss, and therefore Amtrusts decision to decline 
the claim, under section 3.2, is in line with the relevant regulations, and the terms of 
the policy, and so is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr and Mrs G have also argued that that the defect with the size/type of coping stone 
used wasnt fully established until 2022 and is separate to the issue of the mortar 
between the stones, which was twice rectified by the developer and so not part of the 
claim they made to Amtrust. So, they say that the claim for the defective coping 
stones, and resultant damage, should be covered under section 3.3. 
Ive considered whether there would be cover under section 3.3  the Structural 
Insurance Period or SIP. Unlike section 3.2, section 3.3 doesnt provide cover for a 
defect in isolation. Rather, section 3.3 covers major damage which has been caused 
by a defect. This is explained in the policy document:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered 
and notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in 
respect of:
1) The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing 
Unit which has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the 
liability of the Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of 
rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification
Major Damage is defined as:
19. MAJOR DAMAGE
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the
Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Insurance has
been issued by the Underwriter.
b) A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent
actual destruction of or physical damage to any portion of
the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Insurance has
been issued by the Underwriter.
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship,
materials or components of:
the Structure; or
the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope 
which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
The definition of Structure in the policy document includes rendering.
So, in this case, the major damage is the damage to the render. But the render 
issues were first discovered during the DIP (3.2) not the SIP (3.3). It also doesnt 
appear to be in dispute that the render issues are the result of the defect with the 
coping stones. So, the issues are inextricably linked. 
I think its reasonable to conclude that had Amtrust been made aware of the render 
issues during the DIP, in line with the terms of the warranty, it would most likely have 
identified and remedied both issues as part of the same claim. I say this because the 
only way to deliver a lasting and effective repair to the render issues, which is what 
Amtrust would have been required to do under a successful claim, would have been 
to remedy the defect with the coping stones. But the render issues werent notified to 
Amtrust until much later than required.In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider there is cover for the coping 
stone defect under section 3.3 because this section covers major damage caused by 
the defect, rather than the defect itself in isolation. The major damage (to the render) 
was present before section 3.3 commenced so it wasnt first discovered during the 
relevant period for section 3.3 to apply.
To summarise, section 3.2 covers defects. Section 3.3 covers major damage caused 
by a defect. Here there wasnt a defect reported in the period applicable for 3.2 to 
apply, so the defect with the coping stones isnt covered under section 3.2. And when 
a defect was reported, this was under section 3.3. But the damage caused by that 
defect, which is what section 3.3 covers, was already present before that section of 
cover came into place, so it wasnt first discovered during the SIP  which is a 
requirement for cover under section 3.3.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Amtrust to deal with the claim under either section 3.2 or 3.3.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs G provided additional context to the 
sequence of events which took place. They explained that in 2016 there was defective 
mortar between the coping stones and that there was discolouration to the upper part of the 
render and to the side walls of the balconies  not to the main external walls which have 
discoloured and cracked more recently. They said the early discolouration was attributed to 
the defective mortar, and that these issues were all rectified by the developer to their 
satisfaction at the time. So, Mr and Mrs G say they cant reasonably have been expected to 
make a claim to Amtrust during the defect insurance period (the first two years of cover) as 
there was no longer an issue for them to claim for.
When new issues with the render materialised in 2019, Mr and Mrs G say they contacted the 
render provider only to learn that the developer never requested the separate render 
guarantee from them, and so it wasnt in place. But through their communications with the 
render provider, they discovered that the coping stones did not have sufficient overhang or 
drip facility to protect the render from water run-off.
Based on the above, Mr and Mrs G have argued that they can only reasonably have been 
expected to respond to what was knowable at the time. And during the defects insurance 
period (DIP) the walls or coping stones were not forecast to have any further issues. So, 
they disagree that their claim should fail on the basis that the issues werent reported to 
Amtrust during the DIP, because the issues they are seeking to claim for now hadnt yet 
become apparent during that period.
I shared Mr and Mrs Gs response with Amtrust and asked for its comments. Amtrust 
maintained that the issues are connected and so Mr and Mrs G should have reported them 
to Amtrust at the time. 
Based on Mr and Mrs Gs response to my provisional decision, I was persuaded to change 
my mind and to uphold their complaint. So, I issued a second provisional decision to give the 
parties the opportunity to respond to my new provisional outcome, and reasoning. Heres 
what I said in my second provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also carefully considered the responses to my first provisional decision. Having 
done so, Im now intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why in 
more detail below.
At the time of drafting my initial provisional decision, I wasnt aware that the earlier 
issues with the render and coping stones had been resolved by the developer. 
Rather, I was under the impression that Mr and Mrs G reported the issues to the 
developer, but that they were never satisfactorily dealt with. It was on this basis that I 
said it wouldnt be fair to expect Amtrust to deal with the claim under either section 
3.2 (DIP) or section 3.3 (structural insurance period or SIP). This was because the 
policy clearly requires any issues not satisfactorily dealt with by the developer to be 
reported to Amtrust within six months of the expiry of the DIP.
However, given the additional information provided by Mr and Mrs G, I no longer 
think it would be reasonable for me to conclude that they ought to have reported 
issues they believed to have been fully resolved by the developer, to Amtrust, at the 
time. 
I agree that Mr and Mrs G can only be expected to act on what is knowable. So, as 
the developer had, to all appearances, resolved the issues which they were aware of 
at the time, I see no reason for them to have contacted Amtrust. And I note there is 
no condition within the warranty which requires the policyholders to notify Amtrust of 
any and all issues which materialise, only those not dealt with, or responded to, by 
the developer. Afterall, the developer is responsible for defects which arise during the 
DIP  so if they address the issues to the policyholders satisfaction, there is no need 
for the policyholder to involve Amtrust:
The Developers Responsibility during the Defects Insurance Period
The Developer is responsible for Defects that arise during the Defects 
Insurance Period. The Policyholder should notify their concerns to the 
Developer in writing as soon as possible after discovering the 
problem. The Policyholder should keep a copy of all correspondence 
for their records.
It is a condition precedent to payment of claims under this section of 
the Policy that concerns must be notified to the Developer in writing 
before the expiry of the Defects Insurance Period and if the Developer 
does not respond the Defects must be notified to the Scheme 
Administrator in writing within 6 months of the expiry of the Defects 
Insurance Period. The Underwriter will have no liability if all matters 
are not notified within these time frames.
Amtrust says the issues which Mr and Mrs G were aware of during the DIP are 
clearly linked to the later issues. It says the developer may have dragged out the 
issues until the end of the DIP, but Mr and Mrs G were still required to notify Amtrust 
within the stated timescales.I agree that there were issues present in 2016 which have resulted in the damage 
which materialised during the SIP (years three to then of the warranty coverage). For 
example, the lack of suitable overhang or drip facility on the coping stones. But 
again, I cant see that Mr and Mrs G can reasonably have been expected to know 
this at the time. While one episode of damage occurred during the DIP, and was 
dealt with by developer, a separate one seems to have occurred during the SIP. And 
Mr and Mrs Gs warranty provides cover for damage, caused by a defect, which is 
discovered and notified during the SIP.
As explained above, Mr and Mrs G knew there were issues with the mortar and 
render which they reported to the developer as required. The developer dealt with the 
issues and Mr and Mrs G had no reason to suspect that they had not done so 
adequately until much later, when further damage occurred. So, while I agree that the 
more recent damage is linked to the defects which were present during the DIP, I 
dont agree that this means Mr and Mrs G ought to have known to report those 
issues to Amtrust at the time.
Therefore, taking all of the above into account, I think Amtrust should reconsider 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim under section 3.3. I say this because the damage (which is 
what section 3.3 covers) that led to the discovery of the pre-existing defect first 
materialised during the SIP and Mr and Mrs G reported it to Amtrust in line with the 
reporting requirements of that section. I dont think Amtrusts decision to exclude the 
damage for cover, on the basis that a separate episode of damage was reported to 
the developer, and remedied by the developer, in the DIP period, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Both sides responded to confirm they accepted my amended provisional conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my second provisional decision. 
Both sides accepted my amended provisional conclusions and so havent offered any further 
evidence or arguments for me to consider. Therefore, in the absence of any new evidence or 
arguments, Ive reached the same conclusions outlined in my second provisional decision  
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decisions, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
It is my final decision that Amtrust Europe Limited must reconsider Mr and Mrs Gs claim 
under section 3.3.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman