DRN-2258502
The complaint
Mr K complains that Covea Insurance plc, after his car was involved in an accident, chose to 
write-off his car rather than repair it, and didnt offer him enough money as a settlement.
What happened
Mr K insured his car through Covea. He had an accident in April 2020 and reported this to 
Covea, who decided the car was beyond economical repair. They offered Mr K £4,000 (less 
excess and unpaid premiums) as a settlement. Mr K didnt want to lose the car  he thought 
the damage was minimal  and wanted to purchase the salvage from Covea. Mr K says he 
was told hed have to pay just over £2,600 for this. 
Mr K was unhappy with this. He thought the decision to write-off the car was hasty, and the 
amount offered was below what it would cost to purchase a replacement car. Mr K was also 
unhappy because he felt Covea chose not to repair his car to avoid having to provide him 
with a courtesy car. And, the amount they were going to charge him for the salvage was 
excessive. He complained to Covea.
Covea didnt uphold his complaint. They advised their engineer assessed the car and were 
satisfied it was beyond economical repair. And theyd used the correct valuation process  
referring to independent trade guides  to arrive at a fair value for Mr Ks car. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr K brought his complaint to us. However, our investigator thought Covea 
had acted fairly in the circumstances and agreeing with the approach taken by Covea to 
value Mr Ks car. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint, so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why. But firstly, I need 
to set out what Mr Ks policy says about when a car is in an accident. It makes clear Covea 
has a choice whether to repair a car, or settle a claim for cash, saying:
If the loss or damage to your car is covered under your policy, we will choose 
whether to arrange for repairs to your car or we will settle your claim by giving you a 
cash settlement.
And if, in the opinion of Coveas engineers the car can be repaired, then a courtesy car will 
be made available. But if its decided a car cant be repaired, the policy says as follows:
If we choose to make a cash payment to settle your claim, the most we will pay is 
the market value of your car (as it is at the time of the loss or damage).
The policy defines what it means by the term market value as follows:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification, 
year, mileage and condition. In deciding [this], we will refer to insurance industry 
recognised guides as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale to 
the public
This is what the policy provided after Mr K had his accident. So I need to see if Covea 
applied the terms of Mr Ks policy correctly and fairly. And in both cases, I think it did. As Ive 
highlighted above, Covea had a choice whether to repair the car or offer a settlement. Ive 
seen the total loss report prepared by Coveas engineer, who acknowledged Mr Ks car was 
in good condition (before the accident) and the damage wasnt structural, but who concluded 
the car was uneconomical to repair. I havent seen an assessment of the estimated cost to 
repair Mr Ks car. 
However, an insurer would usually decide a car was uneconomical to repair if the repair cost 
exceeded more than 60-65% of its value. Mr Ks car was valued at £4,000, and given the 
type of car it was I think it was reasonable for the engineer to conclude repairs (including 
likely replacement body parts) at an approved repairer would likely have cost more than 60% 
of the value of the car at that time. That being so, I think Covea acted fairly and reasonably 
in concluding Mr Ks car was beyond economical repair.
Ill now deal with the value placed on the car. Ive mentioned what the policy says Covea had 
to do when valuing the car. And Im satisfied it did this. Valuing a car isnt an exact science, 
as each car is different. We check insurers use a pre-accident valuation that is reasonable to 
settle a claim. We also think the fairest way to establish a cars likely pre-accident value is to 
look at the retail price a consumer would have had to pay, for a similar car at a reputable 
dealer, immediately before the insured vehicle was damaged/stolen. That price is likely to be 
lower than advertised prices, as theyre likely to include a margin for negotiation. We 
generally find the valuations given in motor-trade guides to be most persuasive, as the sums 
quoted in them are based on a great deal of research carried out nationwide.
Having seen the documents provided by Covea I can see it has referred to these trade 
guides to calculate its settlement offer. Our investigator has also checked the guides, Glass, 
CAP and Cazana, to confirm Coveas valuations are in line with what they say  which they 
are. I havent seen any reason why Mr Ks car warranted a higher valuation than what these 
guides said. Ive seen the adverts Mr K has provided, showing similar models for sale at 
higher prices, but these are cars with significantly less mileage  a factor which materially 
affects the value of a car in the trade guides used by both Covea and us. So I think Coveas 
settlement offer of £4,000 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything else regarding the settlement offered.
Finally, I want to address the issue of salvage, and clear up what appears to be a 
misunderstanding. Mr K has said he wants to purchase the salvage (the car) from Covea 
and told us he was being asked to pay £2,600 to Covea to get his car back. This is not 
correct. When Covea decided the car was a write-off, it paid the full settlement sum  just 
over £3,600 (£4,000 valuation, less excess and unpaid premium)  to Mr K whilst his 
complaint was ongoing. Further discussions regarding salvage took place, and Mr K was told 
the salvage was valued at £1,040. And that if Mr K wanted to retain the salvage, his 
settlement would be reduced by this amount to just under £2,600. But this isnt the amount Covea are asking Mr K to pay to them to get his car back, its the 
net settlement amount Covea would be willing to pay Mr K in the event he kept the car. But, 
the full settlement (£3,600-odd) has already been paid, so its my understanding Mr K would 
need to repay £1,040 to Covea to get his car back  meaning the net settlement hed have 
received from Covea would be just under £2,600 (£3,600-odd less the salvage value). I dont 
make a finding in this regard, as ultimately its up to Mr K whether he wishes to pay this sum 
to Covea  but I hope it helps to clear up any misunderstanding Mr K may have had 
regarding the salvage value issue.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman