DRN-3578738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy their travel insurance policy automatically renewed. They said 
this was renewed without the prior notification that they were promised by Rock Insurance 
Services Limited (Rock), as the intermediary arranging the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have said they took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through 
Rock. The policy in 2020 began on 27 January 2020 and ran until 28 January 2021. The 
premium paid was the policy was £139.17.
Mr and Mrs C explained that they understood the policy would automatically renew. But said 
they were told by Rock that before this, Rock would contact them to let them know of the 
impending renewal. They said Rock told them theyd receive communication from it 21 days 
before renewal, and again seven days before the policy automatically renewed.
However, Mr and Mrs C have said this didnt happen. They noted they had no 
communication from Rock, and so didnt realise the policy had automatically renewed until 
they looked at their credit card account and saw £144.24 had been taken from it. 
Because these funds had been taken from their account, and Mr and Mrs C didnt want the 
renewed insurance policy, Mr and Mrs C contacted their credit card provider, to raise a 
chargeback. But the credit card provider told them to refer the matter to Rock instead. Which 
Mr and Mrs C did.
Rock responded to Mr and Mrs C and said that they had contacted them prior to renewal, as 
promised. Rock said it contacted Mr and Mrs C, via email, on 7 January 2021. And as it 
didnt receive a response telling it otherwise, the policy went ahead and renewed. Rock said 
it had been more than 14 days since the policy had renewed, but offered a pro-rata refund, 
minus a £5 administration charge, as a gesture of goodwill to Mr and Mrs C. It offered 
£117.11. Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was sufficient  and felt they should receive a full 
refund of their premium. So, they wanted Rock to pay them an additional £27.13.
Because Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
Rock had agreed to contact Mr and Mrs C 21 days prior to auto-renewal, as per its recorded 
phone message, which Mr and Mrs C heard when calling to purchase the policy. And she 
was satisfied Rock had followed through with this agreement. 
Our investigator said Rock had provided a screenshot showing communication was sent to 
Mr and Mrs C on 7 January 2021, 21 days prior to renewal. So, she didnt think Rock had 
acted unreasonably here. She felt Rocks offer of £117.11 was fair. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They reiterated that they had checked their server and could see 
no email had been sent to them by Rock in January 2021. So, they maintained that Rock 
acted unfairly. They said because Rock had failed to do what it had agreed to, they missed 
the opportunity to cancel their insurance policy within its 14-day cooling off period. 
Mr and Mrs C said it was not fair for any of their premium to be held back, because the 
insurer wouldnt be covering any risk prior to the policys cancellation, given the Coronavirus 
and the impact government restrictions at the time had on travel.
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to note that this complaint is about Rock, acting as an intermediary in 
arranging the insurance policy, rather than about Mr and Mrs Cs insurer. So, Ive focused on 
Rock and how it has handled the matter, as opposed to the insurer that underwrite Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy.
Mr and Mrs C said they were told they would receive notification of the pending insurance 
renewal 21 days before this was due to go ahead. And seven days before too. So, Ive 
looked at what Mr and Mrs C were told Rock would do, when Mr and Mrs C took out their 
insurance policy through it.
Rock has provided this service with a copy of the phone call recording, from when Mr and 
Mrs C took their policy out in January 2020. At the beginning of the call, is an automated 
message  which is played before Mr and Mrs C are put through to a Rock representative. 
This automated message explained that the travel insurance policy would automatically 
renew. And that Rock would contact the Mr and Mrs C 21 days before renewal, to let them 
know of the renewal. Ive also seen a transcript provided by Rock, which shows this 
message plays on each call. Given the call recording from when Mr and Mrs C called, and 
the transcript, Im satisfied Rock tells its policyholders that it will contact them 21 days prior 
to renewal. And that unless told otherwise, it will ensure the policy automatically renews.
Having listened to the above conversation, Mr and Mrs C didnt tell the advisor during this 
call that they didnt want the policy to automatically renew. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr and Mrs C took out through Rock too. 
These explain Rock will contact Mr and Mrs C prior to renewal. 
Given Mr and Mrs C were told they would be contacted 21 days prior to renewal, Ive looked 
to see whether this happened in their case.
Mr and Mrs C have said they didnt get any renewal communication. They have provided 
communications from an IT colleague who checked the server any email to Mr and Mrs Cs 
email address would have come through. And that colleague has said no communication 
from Rock was received in January 2021. Rock disagrees. It said it sent Mr and Mrs C a 
renewal reminder 21 days before renewal, as agreed. This being 7 January 2021.
Rock has provided a screenshot of its email tracking system, which shows an email was 
generated and sent to Mr and Mrs Cs email address on 7 January 2021. This shows the 
email was sent to the correct email address, and Im satisfied the information in this 
screenshot suggests the document was about renewal of the policy. One part of the tracking 
information says AutoRenewalWithCurrentQuotePrice_Agg Rule 1. In addition to providing this information, Rock has provided a template email, which shows 
what the automatically generated renewal notice information says. This explains the policy is 
due to renew, and when payment will be taken for this. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs C have said they didnt receive this communication, and that they 
have provided information to show this was the case. And I dont dispute what they have 
said here. But Rocks responsibility was to send the renewal notice it said it would, to the 
correct address, at the correct time. And the information shows it did. I cant say why Mr and 
Mrs C didnt receive the email. But I dont hold Rock accountable for that. It sent the email to 
the right place. And, it went ahead with ensuring renewal happened, when it didnt get any 
communication telling it not to go ahead with arranging the policy. Given this, I dont find that 
Rock did anything wrong here.
Whilst Im satisfied Rock didnt act incorrectly, Im aware it did offer Mr and Mrs C a goodwill 
payment of £117.11. It based this offer amount on a pro-rata refund of the insurance 
premium paid to the underwriter. It said Mr and Mrs C made it clear they didnt want the 
policy on 26 March 2021  so it provided a pro-rata refund from that point. It took a £5 admin 
fee off this, for its work. And raised the payment to Mr and Mrs C. 
Rock said this compensation meant Mr and Mrs C were left paying for the time they were on 
risk  which was from the policy start date, until the policy cancellation date. 
Ive thought about this offer, and Im satisfied its fair. It didnt do anything wrong in how it 
dealt with the renewal, and on hearing of Mr and Mrs Cs dissatisfaction it acted in an 
attempt to resolve this. Rock explained its reasoning behind the offer made too. This being 
that Mr and Mrs C had a policy in operation until they called to cancel it, and that the policy 
would have provided cancellation cover for holidays during that time. I understand the 
compensation payment Rock offered has already been provided to Mr and Mrs C. So, I dont 
require Rock to do anything more.
In reference to their insurer   Mr and Mrs C have said it was unfair for their insurer to keep 
some of their premium, because the insurer wouldnt have been covering any risk, for the 
time their policy was in operation. They said Coronavirus would have meant there was no 
ability to travel. As above, this complaint isnt about Mr and Mrs Cs insurer  so Im not 
considering whether it has acted reasonably in keeping £27.13 of Mr and Mrs Cs premium. 
Should Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy with this, theyll need to refer a complaint to their 
insurer in that regard. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Rock Insurance 
Services Limited. So, I dont require it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman