DRN-3414685
The complaint
Mr B is represented and his representative says that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP 
(trading as Carey Pensions UK LLP [Carey] at the time of the relevant events) failed to 
carry out appropriate due diligence on the Green Oil Plantations Limited (GOP) 
investment before it allowed such an investment to be made within Mr Bs Options SIPP. 
Mr Bs representative says that this investment was unregulated, high risk and Options 
should have prevented this investment from being held in Mr Bs SIPP. It said that 
Options did not act in Mr Bs best interests.
It also said that Options:
Failed to properly warn Mr B about the appropriateness of the investments.
Failed to warn Mr B about transferring to a SIPP to invest in illiquid funds.
Failed to consider how GOP would operate.
Unreasonably attempted to exclude its liability.
If GOP was a UCIS, failed to ensure Mr B fell within one of the requisite 
exemptions to permit investment in the fund. And/or failed to carry out additional 
due diligence.
Failed to consider the appropriateness of Mr B transferring to a SIPP.
Failed to properly investigate him or his desired investment outcome.
Failed to act in a manner expected of a regulated firm.
Failed to categorise him as a retail investor
Failed to prevent questionable transactions.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 21 February 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed 
the complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision in 
italics below and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part 
of, this final decision. Although Carey is now Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, I will refer 
to Carey throughout. 
Provisional decision of 21 February 2022
At the time of the events in question, Mr B dealt with Carey. Therefore, whilst Carey 
has been renamed Options, I will refer to Carey throughout.
In 2010 Mr B switched two existing occupational money purchase schemes to a SIPP 
with Options. Subsequently he invested £272,000, or the majority, of the money 
transferred, into GOP.
In 2014 GOP was placed into liquidation. My understanding is that Mr B lost the majority 
of his investment in GOP.
The administrators report confirms GOP went into administration in April 2013. 
Essentially it says GOP ran out of money due to it having to pay the high promised 
returns to investors and fees, and the plantation having failed to yield its first harvest by 
that time, as a result of various delays. The report says:
The majority of products were structured such that fixed returns were paid to investors 
from the first investment anniversary. However, the first harvest of green nuts was not 
initially forecast to be achieved for a period of 2 years (and in practice, may be 
significantly longer) Furthermore, only one plot was planted in 2010, following delays 
caused by, inter alia, bad weather (which delayed planting) and an FSA investigation in 
the UK which led to a delay In raising funds (and therefore making funds available to 
GOPH for the purchase of land) The remainder of the plots (with the exception of plot 13) 
were planted over an extended period and required the same maturity period. This 
resulted in the obligations to pay returns to investors outstripping income generation.
The business model relied on initial forecasts for the Millettia plantation that showed high 
yields after two years of tree growth. This was based on a plantation operating model 
that involved growing the trees at a high density (supported by ongoing irrigation and 
addition of fertiliser). We understand that this is an untested technique for this species 
and scale of plantation the initial forecasts also relied on income from supplementary 
products, primarily animal feed and fertiliser. To date, these supplementary products 
have not generated revenue and there are material uncertainties as to whether these are 
capable of generating significant net revenue.
Additionally, there were high upfront establishment costs and ongoing fees. These 
included circa 15 per cent commission and fee payments on investments raised and a 15 
per cent plantation management fee (which was levied on all costs incurred by GOPH, 
including land acquisition costs).
The Financial Services Authority investigation referred to was a review of GOP by the FSA 
in 2010, to ascertain whether or not GOP was a collective investment scheme. The 
administrators report says the FSA initially concluded GOP was not a collective 
investment scheme but then, in May 2013 (i.e. after GOP had entered administration), 
concluded it was.
Ive set out the various parties involved in Mr Bs pension switch and subsequent 
investment in detail below.
GOP
GOP was an investment which aimed to deliver returns by cultivating a plantation of 
Millettia Pinnata trees, to produce green oil, animal feed, fertilizer, honey and carbon 
credits. The plantation was in Australia, and aimed to use intensive farming methods 
to achieve high yields.
The investment was aimed at UK investors, and was first marketed in March 2010.
Investment in GOP came with various options. Mr Bs selected option involved taking a 
lease over a plot of the plantation, and then renting the plot back to GOP, with it managing 
the plot for the duration. The duration of the arrangement was ten years and GOP offered 
rental returns for those ten years plus the option for Mr B to sell the trees back to GOP for 
the cost of the lease at the end of the ten year period.The annual returns were stated to be:
Year 1 = 4% of the lease value
Year 2 = 8% of the lease value
Year 3 = 12% of the lease value
Year 4 to 10 = 17% of the lease value
Carey (now Options UK Personal Pensions LLP)
Carey is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complained about  now the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and 
wind up a personal pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
Fertile Planet Limited (FPL)
FPL was registered at Companies House and had one current Director  Ms Joanne 
White. It currently has dissolved status  as of 19 September 2017. The record sets out 
that FPL was incorporated on 21 July 2009. Ms White is also recorded as the Managing 
Director of Global Plantations Limited from 30 March 2010. That company was dissolved 
on 15 July 2019.
Mr Bs submissions
Mr Bs representative provided some detail of Mr Bs circumstances and the events 
leading up to his investment in GOP. It said:
In 2010, the client was introduced to a range of alternative investments through Joanne 
White and Fertile Planet. Joanne White sent in the completed GOP form to Carey 
Pensions UK.
The client decided to go ahead with the GOP investment as ethical investments appealed 
to him. The client was not willing to put his pension monies at risk and chose Carey 
Pensions based on the fact that they were known to Joanne White and accepted GOP as 
an investment and thus had carried out appropriate due diligence on GOP. The very fact 
that Carey accepted GOP as an approved investment after they had carried out their due 
diligence gave the client confidence in both GOP and Carey Pensions UK.
The client did not believe that there was much risk involved as he understood that 
because the SIPP providers accepted this product, it must have been vetted and thus 
appropriate and suitable.
And:
Prior to investing in 2010, the client had some investment experience. He had     
mainly invested in stocks and shares (FTSE) and had an investment in property. 
Subsequent toinvesting in GOP, the client also invested in GreenLeaf Global 
through the SIPP which Carey accepted into the SIPP. This also went into 
administration.
(Mr B) has worked in the pharmaceutical sector for over thirty years and as a 
Regulatory Manager (within the sector) for over 20 years and had company pensions 
into which he contributed monthly.
The client was interested in investing in green/ethical investments and GOP ticked 
those boxes. He was also interested in the potential returns. Joanne White provided the product information and also informed the client that he could invest through the 
Carey SIPP.
As the client was preparing for his retirement, he needed to invest his pension fund safely 
to provide for his future. The client was a novice with regard to SIPP pensions as he had 
always been involved in a company pension scheme which was managed for him and so 
had little if any experience with regard to the complexities of the pensions sector and 
alternative investments.
Mr B also provided a witness statement. He said:
Around mid-2010 Joanne White of Fertile Planet provided me with marketing material 
for GOP.
I was aware that I would need to set up a SIPP to be able to use money held in my 
pensions with (company) and (company) to invest in GOP. I discovered from the GOP 
brochure that GOP was accepted within SIPPs and that it was specifically accepted and 
advertised by Carey Pensions.
After reviewing the GOP material, I chose to set up my SIPP with Carey Pensions. As 
my knowledge of the alternative investment world is very minimal, I put my total trust in 
Carey Pensions to vet and accept the GOP investments on my behalf. As a retail 
investor I also trusted Carey Pensions' Due Diligence process to highlight any potential 
weaknesses or inappropriateness of these investments for myself on the basis that 
they approve pension investments into GOP.
And:
As the SIPP provider accepted the above investments, I was confident that due diligence 
had been undertaken into the investment methodology and people running the investment 
to ensure the product was appropriate to offer as a pension investment. I was not willing 
to put my pension monies at risk.
Without the involvement of the SIPP provider, I would not have been able to invest 
money into these investments as the pension monies was the only way I could invest.
I do not understand how or why Carey Pensions can allow inexperienced investors such 
as myself to have access to and invest in these products. I fail to understand how they 
can include these extremely dubious investments in their SIPP options if they had 
conducted proper research into GOP, particularly without an IFA to explain the suitability. 
I also fail to understand how such high risk investments can be sold without having any 
meaningful information about their clients.
And:
I feel I have been misled by Carey Pensions who never explained the paperwork and 
in particular what is meant by "execution only".
At the time of the SIPP creation and the investment in GOP, I was not advised by an 
IFA in relation to the setting up of the SIPP or the underlying investment in GOP.
My pension funds were transferred into the SIPP for the purpose of a high risk 
investment without understanding me or my needs. It is now clear that the investment 
was entirely inappropriate for me.
Mr B was also asked about his interactions with Ms White and a colleague who 
made a similar investment.
Mr Bs representative said that Mr B had confirmed that he, met Jo White when she 
worked for Plantation Capital. Ms White later left and set up her own business. And (Mr B) used Ms White/her new business to make the GOP investment. Due to the passage of 
time (Mr B) cannot be 100% sure about the series of events / discussions but recalls that 
he was informed about Carey Pensions who could accept such an investment, that it was 
being recommended by IFAs, and Jo White spoke highly of CEO at Carey.
It was also confirmed that Mr B worked with the individual Carey refers to that took 
out a similar investment and told him about the investment.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint. He thought that Carey had undertaken a 
reasonable level of due diligence into the GOP investment. And he also thought that Mr 
B would have appreciated the risk of investing in GOP.
Carey accepted the investigators assessment.
Mr Bs representative did not accept the investigators assessment. In summary it said:
Options failed in its duty to carry out proper due diligence on GOP and 
this due diligence should have been outsourced to an independent 
third party. The investment was not genuine and was a scam.
Options did not fully understand the nature of the investment and 
the risks before allowing Mr B to invest. It was not a land 
transaction but was an investment whose returns were based on a 
novel agricultural investment with no clear market.
Mr B did not work in financial services and whilst he is well versed 
in regulatory documents these were in respect of an unrelated 
profession. This would not have assisted him in respect of the 
GOP investment. He was also not a professional or sophisticated 
investor.
The recent Court of Appeal decision in Adams v Options prioritises 
consumer protections and there are synergies between the case 
brought by Mr Adams and Mr B. Here Mr B was introduced to 
Options by an unregulated introducer - which brings into play the 
section 27 arguments.
It wishes the complaint to be reviewed.
The complaint was therefore passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at a decision that I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I will 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
I have considered these matters in light of Careys further submissions to arrive at a 
decision that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision. The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include 
Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific 
rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but 
specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2018] EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have 
undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP 
wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. 
The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory 
obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach 
taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included 
the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations 
that were required to be taken into account.
Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were to 
reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar 
approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So the Principles are a 
relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I 
have considered them in their entirety).
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks 
to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators 
cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have 
procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, 
enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment 
such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, 
for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the 
advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are 
unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate 
to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, 
we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their 
clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business 
(a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing 
relationships, and clarifying respective responsibilities, with 
intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the 
SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended by 
intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so 
that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually 
small or large transactions or more esoteric investments such 
as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it 
is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended. 
(my emphasis)
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by 
the intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not 
responsible for advice, having this information would enhance the 
firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who 
have signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their 
investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business. (my 
emphasis)
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and 
the reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is 
a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they 
have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are 
providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of 
prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings 
for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships 
and clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP 
business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish 
the nature of the firm, what their business objectives are, the 
types of clients they deal with, the levels of business they 
conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being 
satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by 
unusually small or large transactions; or higher risk investments 
such as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example 
from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any 
concerns. (my emphasis)
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their 
cancellation rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure 
the information they are being supplied with, or that they are 
providing the firm with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures 
and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the 
SIPP operators have considered the additional risks involved in 
accepting business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and 
retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are 
permitted by HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the tax charge 
paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes 
in respect of the introducers that use their scheme and, 
where appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place 
in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members 
and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate 
permissions, qualifications and skills to introduce different 
types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing 
Companies House records, identifying connected 
parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or 
relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting 
the minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal 
with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that 
would lead a firm to decline the proposed business, or to 
undertake further investigations such as instances of potential 
pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- 
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have 
not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or 
linked to fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions 
liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that 
custody of assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any 
contractual agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally 
enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, 
both at point of purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that 
previous investors have received income if expected, or that any 
investment providers are credit worthy etc)
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are 
not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I am of the view 
the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) 
guidance does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to 
take them into account.
I do not think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint mean that 
the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time 
of the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the 
Dear CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to 
have incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their 
business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry 
participants understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP 
operators changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with those Principles. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case I refer to in 
more detail below, did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator 
guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams 
claim. But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take 
into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the 
publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Carey to ensure the 
investment in GOP was suitable for Mr B. It is accepted Carey was not required to give 
advice to Mr B, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post- 
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find that 
the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Carey 
could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the 
relevant time before accepting any introduction from Fertile Planet or Ms White and/or 
allowing the investment into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and 
the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Carey could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations.COBS2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means 
Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Hs case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had 
complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that 
found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so 
much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in Adams v Options, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions 
of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent 
of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into 
which the parties entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
However, the facts in Mr Bs case are very different from those in Mr Adams cases. There 
are also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr 
Adams and from the issues in Mr Bs complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the 
contractual relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded 
breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Bs 
complaint, I am considering whether Options ought to have identified that the introduction 
from Fertile Planet involved a risk of consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to 
have accepted Mr Bs application.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings 
in Mr Adams statement of case.
I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not able  to give 
advice to Mr B on the suitability of its SIPP or the GOP investment for him personally. 
But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses.
I acknowledge Carey has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the Court 
of Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the grounds 
of appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this case and 
therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, if 
permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now.
what did Careys obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed 
by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that 
a particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and a particular investment is an 
appropriate one for a SIPP.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Carey 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with 
the Principles in mind.
Documents
In terms of documentation from the time the transaction took place, I have seen:
An email from an employee of Carey to Mr B dated 15 September 2010. The email 
set out:
Regarding the alternative investment fees, I should explain that, unlike many 
SlPP/SSAS Providers we do not make a separate charge for reviewing investments, 
however, there is still a cost element for that work which can be very involved, 
technical and time consuming, hence the 1% fee. Having said that, I have discussed 
with my CEO, Christine Hallett, the fact that you will be investing a large sum in GOP 
and she has agreed that as a concession to you and as you have an association with 
Jo who we are working with, that we can agree to the fee of 1% for any alternative 
investment being capped at £850(+VAT) which is a considerable reduction and I 
hope an acceptable compromise. (my emphasis)
We received the information regarding the GOP investment yesterday and have 
commenced our review and certainly in principal it appears acceptable. I am out of 
the office both Friday and Monday and will therefore have a final decision by close of 
play tomorrow evening, with commentary and paperwork following during next week.
You are able to set up a SIPP direct with us; however, you should note that we are 
not permitted to give advice and so where advice is needed or required you would 
need to speak to a suitably qualified person.
There followed a further email from the same employee of Options to Mr B dated 23 
September 2010. The content was:
Further  to our recent  emails,  I am pleased  to confirm  that the Green  Oil 
Investment  has been  formally  approved  and I attach  the following  
documentation  for your reference  should  you choose  Careys  as your 
pension  provider.
1. A copy  of the Adviser  Notification  letter  - this letter  will 
be issued  to each  Adviser  that introduces  business  to Careys  for the Green  Oil Investment  so I thought  it 
prudent  that you have  a copy;
2. A template  Member  Declaration  - this will need  to be 
completed  and signed  to proceed  with the investment  
(we pre-populate  with the relevant  information)  and 
issue  to you (the fees would  be as previously  
discussed,  rather  than the flat 1% for you);
A GOP application form which sets out that an investment of £272,000 is to be 
made. Mr B signed this application form on 23 September 2010. The Agent 
Details recorded Jo White of Fertile Planet. The application set out the 
terms of the lease agreement (as discussed earlier in this decision) and also 
set out that, If you feel that financial advice is needed, you should contact 
your Independent Financial Advisor. We can put you in touch with one if 
needed.
An email from Joanne White to an employee of Carey dated 23 September 
2010. The content was:
Please find attached GOP application form for (Mr B). Utility bill and 
drivers license on next email.
I think you agree this is a great start to our relationship and I 
hope to build more going forward.
If you require anything from me please do not hesitate to contact me.
Mr B signed transfer forms on 21 September and 23 September 2010 to authorise 
the transfer of his existing pensions to the Options SIPP.
An Alternative investment  Green Oil Plantations Member Declaration & 
Indemnity declaration. The content of the declaration was:
I, (Mr B), being  the member  of the above  Scheme  write  to instruct  Carey  
Pension  Trustees  UK Ltd to Purchase  a Leasehold  Plot of Land  through  
Green  Oil Plantations  for a consideration  of £272,000  on my behalf  for 
the above  Scheme.
I am fully aware  that this is investment  is High  Risk and/or  
Speculative  and confirm  that I wish  to proceed.
I am fully aware  that both Carey  Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension  
Trustees  UK Ltd act on an Execution  Only  Basis.  Neither  Carey  
Pensions  UK LLP nor Carey  Pension  Trustees  UK Ltd have  provided  
any advice  whatsoever  in respect  of this investment.
I do not hold Carey  Pensions  UK LLP or Carey  Pension  Trustees  UK Ltd 
responsible  for any exchange  rate fluctuations  that may adversely  affect  
the value  of this investment.
If I decide  not to lease  the land to Green  Oil Plantations  I confirm  that 
I will provide  full details  of my intentions  to Carey  Pensions  UK LLP 
for their consideration  and agree  that the investment  will not proceed  
until Carey  Pensions  UK LLP agreement  to proceed  has been  given.
I also understand  and agree  that, in the event  of my demise,  if Carey  
Pension  Trustees  UK Ltd is unable  to sell the asset  within  HMRC  
timescales  that it may be transferred  to my beneficiaries  through  my 
estate  and accordingly  may be subject  to any Inheritance  Tax.
Should  any aspect  of this investment  be subject  to a tax charge  within  the Pension  Scheme  any such  charges  will be paid directly  from  the 
fund or by me as the member  of the Scheme.
I agree  to provide  Carey  Pension  Trustees  UK Ltd with any further  
information  and/or  documentation  they may require  prior  to 
completing  the purchase  of this investment.
I indemnify  both Carey  Pensions  UK LLP and Carey  Pension  Trustees  
Ltd against  any and all liability  arising  from  this investment.
Mr B signed this declaration on 24 September 2010.
A letter from Mr B to Carey dated 24 September 2010. This referred to Mr Bs 
occupational pensions which were subsequently switched to Carey. The content was:
Please find enclosed completed forms to allow transfer of 2 investment accounts 
into the Carey SIPP.
Following recent changes to [occupational scheme] (closure), I had planned to 
move the above pension schemes to the [different occupational scheme] plan that 
is now being administered on behalf of [employer]. However, on close scrutiny of 
their rules for 'self-investment' it became apparent that the investment options 
were limited to those in place pre-2006 and no allowance made for subsequent 
changes. The transfers were stopped and I have now chosen Carey to make such 
investments that are allowed by HMRC.
I will however be making regular contributions to the [different occupational 
scheme] since [employer] will only 'match' contributions if paid into that scheme. I 
understand that it is then possible to transfer these funds into the Carey Pension - 
and I will look into this at a future time.
I have enclosed a cheque for £2,000 to be paid into my (bank account) that 
should together with the transfers pay for the proposed investment and all set 
up costs, assuming there has been no reduction in the value of the 
[occupational pension].
I trust that I have provided all the information required to allow the transfers 
to proceed.
A letter dated 1 October 2010 from Options to Mr B confirming that his 
SIPP had been established as of 27 September 2010.
An undated sample letter headed Alternative Investment Request  Green 
Oil Plantations. It is my understanding that this was the Adviser 
Notification Letter referred to in the email of 23 September 2010 that I 
have set out above.
It sets out:
Following your request to allow investment of the Carey Pension SIPP / SSAS 
into the Green Oil Plantations Investment, Carey Pensions UK LLP Investment 
Committee has considered the information provided and would draw your attention 
to the undernoted.
There then follows detail about the GOP investment such 
as: Structure
Promoter is Green Oil Plantations Limited (GOP).A 5 or 10 year peppercorn lease is acquired over land in 
Australia from GOP. Land is purchased in  hectare plots.
Investors can manage the land themselves or lease back to GOP 
using a sublease. GOP will then manage the land, trees & harvest 
to provide returns.
Option 1  5 year term. Land is purchased with a fixed number of 
trees. Purchase price is based on a price per tree. After 5 years 
the land is re-purchased by GOP at an increased value per tree.
Option 2  10 year term. Fixed income is paid over the term and 
the land is re-purchased by the GOP at the end of the term at the 
original cost price.
And:
Marketability
There is no apparent established market so any sale / 
transfer is subject to locating a willing buyer.
The 10 year scheme offers an exit by providing 3 months 
notice and receiving accrued rental only.
GOP undertakes to buyback the land at the end of each 
term. GOP undertakes to buyback the land, subject to 
terms, in the event of death of a scheme member.
The options for GOP buying back the land are reliant on 
GOP being in existence.
And:
How Liquid is the Investment?
There appears to be an exit strategy, subject to GOP being in existence.
And:
Investor Protection?
As the investment is unregulated no protection through FSCS is offered.
Within the Comments section:
This investment is considered an alternative and high risk investment.
All members should take their own tax, investment and financial advice to 
determine whether this is a suitable investment for them and taking into 
consideration the overall value of the SIPP funds, the percentage of the 
SIPP to be invested and ongoing charges.
Careys due diligence on GOP
As a preliminary matter I would confirm that Carey was not required to ensure an 
investment was suitable for a particular applicant or customer. It did have a responsibility 
to run certain checks, for example to ensure its customers werent entering arrangements that were clearly fraudulent.
But Carey wasnt required to reject an investment simply because it was high risk or 
esoteric. And it wasnt required to assess whether the investment was suitable for Mr B 
or met his particular needs. It didnt have to obtain details of his personal circumstances 
to assess whether he should make the investment as Mr B appears to believe. Carey 
was not Mr Bs financial adviser and it was not providing regulated advice. It was 
confirmed several times (as detailed in the documents referenced) that Carey was not 
providing advice as to the suitability of the investment and the applicant should obtain 
that if necessary.
But, as discussed earlier, Carey did have a duty to act with due care and diligence 
when accepting business and acting in the best interests of its customers. And it did 
have to consider whether it should accept certain business. We have previously asked 
Carey the following questions and received the following answers:
What steps did Carey take to satisfy itself that the investment was genuine, not 
a scam or linked to fraudulent activity?
Carey Pensions obtained a letter from KPMG, the audit firm appointed to the 
investment by Green Oil Plantations, who confirmed they had been appointed to 
act as the registered office of Green Oil Plantations, and they had also been 
appointed as the firms accountants and tax advisers. The letter from KPMG also 
confirms that they had been appointed since the incorporation of Green Oil 
Plantations (who we have found were incorporated on 29th March 2010) and that 
they have assisted the company in registering with the Australian Tax Office, deal 
with their tax returns and assist the firm with meeting its requirements under the 
relevant regulatory authorities. KPMG was, and still is, one of the Worlds top 10 
Audit Firms providing reassurance that there would be an audit trail of the firms 
business transactions and assets.
Also, Carey Pensions obtained the legal opinion from Regulatory Legal, an SRA 
regulated firm of UK Lawyers that, following a review of the investment 
documentation, found that the investment structure falls outside of the definition of 
an unregulated collective investment scheme and so investors were offered control 
to decide who they appointed to manage their Land. Carey Pensions also checked 
the Law Firm (MacDonnells Law) who was appointed to deal with the land 
transactions and who had confirmed the title of the land was in the name of Green 
Oil Plantations, were listed on the Law Society Register in Australia (Queensland) 
to check that they were regulated to provide legal services. We found them to be 
registered on the Queensland Law Society register.
What steps did Carey take independently to verify the investments assets were 
real and secure and that the investment operated as claimed?
Carey obtained copies of the Queensland Land Registry, evidencing Green Oil 
Plantations ownership of the land, from the appointed Law Firm in Australia 
(MacDonnells Law) who were dealing with the land transactions, as 
aforementioned
Carey completed an independent internet search of the Queensland Law Society 
Register to evidence that the Australian Law Firm and the individual Lawyer was a 
genuine and regulated law firm and individual lawyer. This Law Firm, also verified 
that they had visited the plots of Land owned by Green Oil Plantations and had 
sighted the plantation of trees on the relevant plots. The letter also confirms that a Surveyor had visited the plots and prepared a survey plan, they (the law firm) had 
prepared the sub-leases and that they would arrange the registration of the leases 
at the Queensland Land Registry. Carey were satisfied that the Law Firm were 
regulated by the relevant legal authority in Australia to undertake the land 
transactions relating to Green Oil Plantations and our members and have 
undertaken searches to verify ownership of the land and that there was also 
evidence of a plantation on the plots.
What steps did Carey take to satisfied the investment could be independently 
valued?
The investment is a Land Lease to be used for growing trees. Independent 
valuers for the land and trees would need to be appointed in Australia i.e. 
appointing an Independent Land Surveyor to value the Land and a plant oil expert 
to value the trees and their yield. Appointing a surveyor to value land is standard 
practice in all land and property transactions and Carey was therefore satisfied it 
would be able to obtain a valuation of the land. In relation to valuing the trees, and 
the expected yield, the plant oil industry is an established industry and an expert 
valuer would need to be appointed where a valuation is required.
In addition Carey said:
This investment was reviewed by Carey Pensions specifically for (Mr B) following 
his request to invest in this particular investment. (Mr B) confirmed that he wanted 
to invest in Green Oil Plantations with his current pension provider at the time, but 
they did not accept unregulated investments. (Mr B) also confirmed that he was 
reviewing his overall strategy, and wanted to know if Carey had a Qualifying Non 
UK Pensions Scheme as he wished to consider this option also. (Mr B) came to 
Carey Pensions as a direct client who also owned a similar plantation investment 
personally when he instructed the purchase of the lease with Green Oil Plantations 
as this was transferred into his SIPP from his personal ownership about the same 
time as his pension investment into Green Oil Plantations. Therefore we deem (Mr 
B) as being fully aware of the risks associated with this investment as he already 
had an investment of this nature when he transferred to the Carey Pensions 
Scheme.
Carey says it carried out the checks detailed above, over and above ascertaining that the 
investment was permissible and eligible for inclusion in a registered pension scheme. It 
has detailed the steps it took, which involved obtaining information from GOPs auditors, 
obtaining legal advice about the investment, checking the status of GOPs legal advisers 
and checking title to the land in question.
I think this went some way to meeting Careys regulatory obligations and the 
standards of good practice, and Carey could have taken some comfort from what it 
saw, whilst also identifying some points of concern. I will detail the latter first.
The investment structure essentially involved the investor taking a lease of a plot of 
the overall plantation, and renting it back to GOP (and the return being paid as rent). 
Thus the investor was the landlord and GOP the tenant.
I have seen a marketing brochure for GOP (although Mr B has not supplied such) 
which explains:
A quarter hectare is priced at £10,000, a half hectare £20,000 and a full hectare 
£40,000. You can buy multiples of the sizes available. The 8 year project currently has 
availability of quarter, half and full hectares.The lease is fully registered in your name at the Australian land registry office for a one 
off registration fee of £550.00. The leaseholder has total freedom to sell, reassign, 
exploit the land themselves, appoint someone to do the farming on their behalf or let the 
plot to Green Oil Plantations.
You are given the choice to enter into a tenancy agreement where you become the 
landlord and Green Oil Plantations the tenant.
The landlord has the flexibility to give a 3 months notice to exit the tenancy any time 
during the term of the tenancy.
The lease purchase amount will be refunded to the landlord at the end of the tenancy term.
Green Oil Plantations can pay such rental returns when they utilise each rented plot 
for the management and exploitation of your trees produce.
Mr B entered into such a tenancy agreement, for a ten year term, and was offered 
high returns for doing so  17% a year from years four to ten.
By way of explanation as to how this return will be achieved the brochure says:
Each plot produces the following products which can be sold locally in Australia.
Green Oil  this can be sold for the production of electricity or Biofuel
Animal Feed
Bio-Fertiliser
Honey
Carbon Credits
Bio Herbicide
Unique Features Of Our Intensive Millettia Plantations:
High density planting
High yielding genetics
High level of soil nutrition to encourage higher oil content of seed
Secure and superior irrigation system installed, utilising channel 
water from the nearby dam which never runs out (not relying on 
natures sometimes unreliable rainfall)
High pollination rate achieved with additional bee colonies introduced
Superior pruning techniques to induce more flowering and subsequently more seed
Superior mechanical harvesting techniques utilised
Seed processed within 12 hours of harvesting to achieve higher oil recovery
Superior processing equipment used to achieve highest extraction rate
The plantation will produce 3 crops per year and the first crop will take place in 
2012. Crude Millettia oil prices are based on the Crude Palm oil price which is indexed 
on the stock market. Palm oil can be used for biofuel and electricity production however; 
its main use is for food. Over 90% of the food on the supermarket shelves contains palm 
oil. Non food oils like Millettia oil will fetch a higher price than palm oil as it is not affecting 
the food chain.
Our figures have been calculated on a price 25% below todays crude palm oil 
prices. The price we can achieve selling our primary product, green oil, will continue to 
rise in the coming years. As you can see from the above, we will have the ability to 
choose who we sell the oil to and in what form  this is unprecedented for an energy 
product  as the demand can only increase substantially.In my view, although there is some detail about how GOP plans to generate returns, the 
basis of the projected return to those, like Mr B, entering a Tenancy and Buyback 
Agreement isnt completely clear. All the brochure effectively says is lots of things can 
be done with the products of the plantation and the oil price is high and will rise. So 
there was a risk consumers might be misled about the potential returns, or at least did 
not have sufficient information to assess their viability.
It is also clear from the brochure that GOP (or the return generated by the plantation) 
is to absorb all the costs, as the following is said:
Q: What are my ongoing costs should I choose to appoint GreenOil Plantations to 
manage my trees and land?
A: All costs and taxes will be covered by Green Oil Plantations should you choose to 
enter into a contract with us. Your only costs are your personal tax liabilities. We will 
be able to cover such costs from the revenue generated from your trees. We will 
also take an insurance cover at our own cost to protect your trees and any loss of 
returns.
But no detail of these costs, which would assumedly include planting, maintenance, 
harvest, transport, insurance etc is given. The return was also payable on the sum 
invested, in Sterling. So the currency risk was shouldered by GOP too. It is not clear 
how all this is factored into the projected returns and, in the absence of this 
information, consumers may not have had sufficient information to fully assess the 
investment.
In respect of the insurance, the brochure says:
Green Oil Plantations will also take at its own cost an annual comprehensive 
insurance to cover any risks of plantation damages.
For landlord protection our insurance will also cover loss of rental income.
Q: How does the insurance cover work?
A: We commit to take a comprehensive insurance cover to protected (sic) the plantation 
and crop in event they are affected. This insurance will be put in place for those clients 
who appoint Green Oil Plantations to manage their plot through the tenancy or buyback 
contracts.
The costs of such insurance will be the full responsibility of Green Oil Plantations.
But it is not clear how insurance would cover things to the extent described by GOP 
i.e. ensure that the very high returns promised would be paid. This is a further point 
of concern.
Finally, it is clear from the brochure that GOP was planning to pay returns before it 
generated any. The brochure (which, as a reminder, was dated 2010) contains several 
testimonials from investors who have already been paid their first year returns. But the 
brochure also confirms that the first harvest is not due until 2012. It is not clear how 
these returns are being funded.
So there were a number of points of concern. It would have been good practice for the 
due diligence to be independently produced/verified, rather than only obtain information from the parties involved in GOP.
However, there were details of the title to the plantation land, credentials of those 
involved with GOP, letters of support from other sources, confirmation some insurance 
had been taken out and confirmation of the appointment of businesses which could 
reasonably be expected to be involved in the day to day running of a business such as 
GOP.
So I think Carey could reasonably have concluded from its due diligence that Mr Bs SIPP 
would acquire title to an asset. There was sufficient information to ascertain GOP had title 
to the land it was leasing, and UK and Australian law firms had been appointed to deal 
with the registration of title.
But the projected returns were very high and there was considerable risk, as the 
returns required successfully obtaining several products from the plantation and 
intensive farming methods which did not appear to have been used in relation to the 
crop previously.
So, given all these factors, Carey should have given careful thought to the nature and 
source of any introductions relating to GOP investments.
Careys due diligence on Fertile Planet Ltd
I have considered what a level of due diligence consistent with Careys regulatory 
obligations and the standards of good practice at the time ought to have revealed. And 
what, with those same obligations and standards in mind, Carey ought to have 
concluded about Fertile Planet.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the 
relationships between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it 
gives non exhaustive examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these 
standards, and its regulatory obligations, set by the Principals, Carey ought to have 
identified a significant risk of consumer detriment arising from business brought about 
by Fertile Planet - a business introducing consumers to Carey which appeared to be 
specialising in one unusual unregulated investment, on an execution only (that is, 
non-advised) basis. And so Carey ought to have ensured it thought very carefully 
about accepting applications from Fertile Planet and, therefore, Mr B.
I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved 
Carey getting a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, the 
nature of the investments to be made and putting a clear agreement in place 
between it and the introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk 
generally posed to consumers by the introducer.
We asked Carey a number of questions about its relationship with Fertile Planet Ltd. 
The questions and Careys answers are detailed below:
-What were Careys dealings with Jo White?
Jo White operates an investment called Global Plantations. 
Carey Pensions reviewed this investment for acceptance. 
Please note, (Mr B) did not invest in Global Plantations.
-How many clients were referred by Jo White and over what timeframe?
No clients were referred to Carey Pensions by Jo White, Jo White 
has never been an introducer of business to Carey Pensions.-Can you please provide details of the investment associated with each 
referral made.
Not Applicable as there were no referrals.
-Was there any formal arrangement in place with Jo White? If so, 
could you please provide evidence of this.
No, Jo White was not an Introducer of Business to Carey Pensions.
-Was any commission paid to Jo White?
No, we had no relationship with Jo White...
-Is Carey still working with Jo White, and if not, why not?
No, Carey Pensions has never worked with Jo White, it had no 
business relationship with Jo White. Carey Pensions reviewed and 
accepted Global Plantations, an investment operated by Jo White 
but did not, and never has, accept any introductions from her.
It is my understanding that Carey takes the position that it did not undertake any due 
diligence as to Jo White or Fertile Planet in respect of Mr B because it had no 
relationship with her and it did not make any introductions to it on behalf of other 
individuals.
I do not believe the evidence bears this out.
As set out earlier, in an email between an employee of Carey and Mr B, the employee said:
Having said that, I have discussed with my CEO, Christine Hallett, the fact that you will 
be investing a large sum in GOP and she has agreed that as a concession to you and as 
you have an association with Jo who we are working with, that we can agree to the fee 
of 1% for any alternative investment being capped at £850(+VAT) which is a 
considerable reduction and I hope an acceptable compromise. (my emphasis)
The statement that Carey was working with Ms White would tend to indicate that there 
was some form of working relationship with her (or that there was an anticipation of such) 
and a financial concession for Mr B was being made because of that.
Furthermore Ms White submitted Mr Bs GOP application to Carey with other 
documents necessary for the investment to go ahead. Ms White commented:
I think you agree this is a great start to our relationship and I hope to build more 
going forward.
So the evidence is that Carey was aware that Ms White was making an introduction for Mr 
B. As Ms White was making the introduction for Mr B, Carey should have treated her as 
an introducer  who was not regulated. The evidence also indicates that there was an 
anticipated or actual business relationship between Carey and Jo White. It is more likely 
than not that this was in relation to similar introductions given that Ms White was 
promoting environmental investments through her various enterprises.
So Carey was aware that the introduction was being made by an unregulated party 
specialising in esoteric environmental developments which had significant risk, 
including a risk of total failure. But it did not seemingly undertake any due diligence into 
Ms Whites or Fertile Planets (which was clearly noted as Ms Whites business on the 
GOP application) operation.
Had Carey undertaken a reasonable level of due diligence as to Ms White and Fertile 
planet, it would have found a very small unregulated, juvenile business with a very limited, 
in any, track record. Furthermore Mr B had confirmed to an employee of Carey that he 
had not received any financial advice as to the GOP investment. So the application bore the material hallmarks of an application or transaction that could result in considerable 
consumer detriment. Furthermore there were risks that should have been apparent to 
Carey that Fertile Planet may be carrying out regulated activities, given the lack of any risk 
warnings being provided to Mr B and that a large occupational transfer was being 
facilitated by an unregulated business.
The total value of Mr Bs pension swich was about £300,000. Of that the majority, 
£272,000, was to be invested in one investment  GOP. It was clear that there were 
significant risks in investing in that kind of product  of the type that the FSA/FCA had 
highlighted in its guidance. I have discussed the operation of GOP and its risks earlier in 
this decision. Carey was aware that a non-advised pension switch was being made, from 
occupational pension schemes to its SIPP so that the vast majority of the money 
transferred could be invested in GOP.
Considered holistically the matters I have discussed clearly amount to a red flag that 
should have indicated to Carey that consumer harm could result. Carey ought to have 
identified significant points of concern, and these ought to have led it to conclude it should 
not accept the SIPP application or GOP investment. It ought to have known there was a 
high risk of detriment to Mr B.
I note that Mr B had another green investment of the same nature. However that was for 
a much smaller sum - £15,000. Mr B has said this came about because he was looking at 
so- called sustainable investments and he thought this looked interesting and paid 
between 10% to 15% returns a year. He says he didnt receive any advice in respect of 
this investment.
I do not believe it reasonable to make the assumption that because Mr B had another 
investment of this nature that he was aware of all the risks of investing in this way, 
especially as he does not have a financial services background and did not receive 
regulated advice as to the investments. Mr B has said he had no such understanding. But, 
in any event, given the matters I have discussed, Carey shouldnt have accepted the 
application for the SIPP and investment. So Mr Bs transaction would not, or should not, 
have proceeded in any event.
in conclusion
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Carey acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mr B fairly by accepting the 
investment in GOP or accepting the application for the SIPP. Carey didnt meet its 
regulatory obligations or the standards of good practice at the time, and it allowed Mr 
Bs funds to be put at significant risk as a result.
did Carey act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Bs instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Carey simply should have refused to accept Mr Bs 
application. So things should not have got beyond that. Had Carey acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in 
my view to conclude that it should not have accepted Mr Bs application to open a 
SIPP or make the investment.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mr B 
to sign risk or indemnity declarations was not an effective way for Carey to meet its 
regulatory obligations to treat her fairly, given the concerns Carey ought to have had 
about her introduction and the investment.
Having identified a risk, it is my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to refuse to accept the application  not put in place a process asking Mr B to sign 
declarations in an attempt to absolve itself of responsibility. I dont think the declarations 
Mr B signed meant that Carey could ignore its duty to treat him fairly.
Carey may say that its most likely he would have gone ahead with the investment 
even if itd taken all the steps the ombudsman said it should have.
I dont agree. Carey refusing to accept business and sharing the concerns that led to 
that decision may well have meant that Mr B would have acted very differently. This 
refusal would have tended to highlight the concerns with making such an investment. 
And he then may well have sought regulated advice as to the ramifications of the 
transfer. And in any event I do not believe it is reasonable to assume that another SIPP 
operator would have accepted Mr Bs application on the same basis, had Carey 
declined it. I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not compensate 
Mr B for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have 
made the same mistakes as Ive found Carey did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the application or investment.
Ive concluded Mr B wouldnt have invested but for Careys failure to carry out sufficient 
due diligence. And in these circumstances, Im satisfied its fair to hold it responsible for 
the whole of the loss suffered. Im not asking it to account for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings.
Putting things right
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr B suffering a significant loss to his 
pension.
And, my aim is therefore to return Mr B to the pension position he would now be in but 
for Careys failings.
Carey should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the 
position Mr B would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. In 
summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the 
switch and GOP investment.
2. Take ownership of the GOP investment if possible*.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension. If that is not 
possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either 
case the payment should take into account necessary 
adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transferTo do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pensions as at the date of my 
final decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr B's former pension providers to calculate the current notional 
transfer values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the values. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at 
the date of my final decision and this will show the loss Mr B has suffered. The GOP 
investment should be assumed to have no value.
1. Take ownership of the GOP investment*
Carey should take ownership of the GOP investment, for a nil consideration, if possible.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the GOP investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future. However, it would not be fair for Mr B to have any ongoing fees to 
pay in relation to the SIPP. So, in the event Carey is unable to take ownership of the 
GOP investment (and it cant otherwise be removed from the SIPP), it should waive any 
fees associated with the SIPP, until such a time as the SIPP can be closed.
2. Pay compensation to Mr B for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr B has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional allowance should 
be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr B may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr B direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr B should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr B is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
3. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been caused some significant distress and inconvenience by the loss of his 
pension benefits. This was the majority of his pension and it appears to be lost. Mr B 
has said that he has had to take another job to try and rebuild his pension benefits. I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
InterestThe compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
*It is my understanding that the GOP investment may have failed completely and no 
longer exist. If that is correct then there wouldnt be any issues associated with Mr B 
retaining it in his pension or Carey taking ownership of it.
After I had issued my provisional decision, Carey requested that it be allowed until 31 March 
2022 to provide a response. This was granted. However, I have not received any further 
submissions from Carey in response to the provisional decision. I believe it is therefore 
appropriate to now issue a final decision. 
Mr Bs representative accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received any further submissions in response to my provisional decision. My
decision therefore remains that the complaint should be upheld  for the reasons set out in
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
As set out in the provisional decision, Carey should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr B would be in if he had not transferred 
from his existing pension. In summary, Carey should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the 
switch and GOP investment.
2. Take ownership of the GOP investment if possible*.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension. If that is not 
possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either 
case the payment should take into account necessary 
adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Carey should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Carey should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pensions as at the date of my 
final decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Carey should ask Mr B's former pension providers to calculate the current notional 
transfer values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the values. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at 
the date of my final decision and this will show the loss Mr B has suffered. The GOP 
investment should be assumed to have no value.
2. Take ownership of the GOP investment*
Carey should take ownership of the GOP investment, for a nil consideration, if possible.
If Carey is unable to take ownership of the GOP investment it should remain in the 
SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable 
value in the future. However, it would not be fair for Mr B to have any ongoing fees to 
pay in relation to the SIPP. So, in the event Carey is unable to take ownership of the 
GOP investment (and it cant otherwise be removed from the SIPP), it should waive any 
fees associated with the SIPP, until such a time as the SIPP can be closed.
3. Pay compensation to Mr B for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr B has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional allowance should 
be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr B may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr B direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr B should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr B is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been caused some significant distress and inconvenience by the loss of his 
pension benefits. This was the majority of his pension and it appears to be lost. Mr B 
has said that he has had to take another job to try and rebuild his pension benefits. I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Carey 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
*It is my understanding that the GOP investment may have failed completely and no 
longer exist. If that is correct then there wouldnt be any issues associated with Mr B retaining it in his pension or Carey taking ownership of it.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as above. My decision is that Carey should pay Mr B the amount produced 
by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000. In addition, Carey must pay Mr B 
£500 for the trouble and upset caused. As set out above, interest must be added to the 
total compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Carey pays Mr B the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Carey doesnt have to 
do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman