DRN-3688453
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc offered a reduced settlement amount 
for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only. 
Reference to AXA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S took out home insurance through a broker, who Ill refer to as B. The 
underwriter was AXA for a number of years. It 2019 it changed to a different insurer 
before returning to AXA in July 2020.
In May 2021, Mr S got in touch with AXA after he discovered his electric gate wasnt 
working properly.
AXA accepted the damage was covered by the policy and agreed to settle the claim. 
But it said Mr S had underinsured the outbuildings. It thought they should have been 
insured for £21,954 but were only insured for £7,500, or about 34%. AXA relied on a 
policy term to reduce the claim settlement in line with this percentage.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said he hadnt been informed what the cover for 
outbuildings included. And if he had, he would have increased his cover.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think AXA had 
shown it had asked Mr S clear questions at the relevant times. Nor had it provided 
any underwriting information to show the impact on the premium of the alleged 
underinsurance. She said AXA should pay the claim in full, together with £100 
compensation for the delays caused.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA relied on a policy term to reduce the amount it offered to settle the claim. In 
summary this term says that if the amount Mr S is insured for is less than the rebuild 
cost, the claim will be settled at the percentage Mr S is insured for. Here thats 
around 34%.
Im satisfied the term is in the policy and is clearly worded. However, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on it in this case. Ill explain 
why.
Whilst I recognise AXA is seeking to rely on the policy term only, its doing so 
because it doesnt think Mr S gave the right information when the policy renewed in 
2020.
According to the policy term, at the renewal, AXA wanted to know how much it would 
cost to completely rebuild all Mr S outbuildings. Within the policy, this word is 
defined so its full meaning is explained. It says it includes, amongst other things, 
detached garages, sheds, fences, driveways and patios. AXA is entitled to set the 
definition as it sees fit and to ask for the full rebuild cost in order to decide how much 
to charge for providing insurance cover.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant  such as the rebuild cost for 
outbuildings.
When a broker sells a policy, its responsible for gathering that information from the 
consumer and passing it to the insurer. How it gathers that information is a matter for 
the broker  not the insurer. This complaint is against AXA in its role as insurer  a 
separate complaint has been considered against B in its role as broker.
As far as AXA is concerned, it wanted to know the full rebuild cost for the 
outbuildings and didnt receive a reasonable answer. If I were to agree Mr S answer 
was unreasonable, I would go on to consider what impact that had on AXA. So, if Mr 
S had said the rebuild cost was around £22,000 as AXA thinks he should have done, 
what difference  if any  would that have made to AXA? For example, if it would 
have asked Mr S to pay a higher premium, it may be air to apply a proportionate 
settlement in line with the proportion of premium paid.
Our investigator asked this question but AXA hasnt answered it. Without evidence 
that it would have made any difference to AXA, Im not satisfied it would be fair for 
AXA to reduce the claim settlement.
Even if Mr S had given a higher outbuildings sum insured, it seems AXA would have 
offered him the same policy, with the same terms, at the same premium  and paid 
this claim in full. In other words, Mr S has paid as much as he needed to for full 
cover, yet AXA isnt prepared to pay the claim in full. I dont think thats a fair and 
equitable position to take.
Because of this, I havent gone on to consider whether Mr S answer was reasonable 
or not  as it doesnt make a difference to the outcome.
To put things right, AXA should settle Mr S claim without relying on the policy term to 
reduce the settlement value. The remaining policy terms and conditions apply.
This claim has now been outstanding for over a year. Whilst the initial loss adjuster 
inspection and investigation was a reasonable and normal part of the claim journey, 
the subsequent delay was unnecessary and avoidable had AXA acted fairly.
Mr S has been suffering from ill health during that time. Its not appropriate for me to 
go into detail about the illness here. But Im satisfied its meant an already difficult 
time for him has been unnecessarily exacerbated by a prolonged claim journey. Thats caused him distress and inconvenience, which I think AXA should pay 
compensation for. I consider £500 a reasonable and proportionate figure in the 
circumstances. That includes the £100 previously suggested by our investigator. If 
thats been paid, it can be deducted from the £500 total.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. AXA didnt. It pointed to the policy term which says 
AXA can reduce the claim settlement if Mr S is insured for less than the rebuild cost.
I explained in my provisional decision that I was satisfied the term was contained within the 
policy and clearly worded. Thats not in doubt. I went on to explain why I wasnt persuaded it 
would be fair to rely on the term. My reasoning is set out above, so I wont repeat it.
AXA hasnt told me why it disagrees with my reasoning or provided any further evidence 
about what Ive said  its simply reiterated that it would like to rely on the policy term. That 
hasnt persuaded me to change my mind.
I still think it would treat Mr S unfairly to reduce his claim settlement when theres no 
evidence that selecting a higher sum insured would have had any impact on AXA  for the 
same reasons I set out above.
It follows that Im satisfied the remedy I proposed is the fair one to settle this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle the claim without reliance on the underinsurance policy term and subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman