DRN-2629070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that their insurance broker  Affinity Select Insurance Services 
Limited (Affinity)  mis-sold a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness cover 
policy to them.
What happened
In July 2016, Affinity sold Mr and Mrs H some life assurance policies. Among these was a 
joint policy intended to pay off their mortgage if either of them died before it was cleared.
During the sales call, Mrs H referred to her mortgage and existing life assurance policy 
running for three more years. Affinity confirmed this with her a number of times, and set the 
policy up for a three-year term. They and the policy underwriter then sent Mr and Mrs H 
some written details about the policy, confirming it would run until July 2019. 
The problem here was that Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage wasnt due to be paid off until 
November 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H found out in April 2019 that the policy was due to end in July. They tried to 
extend it by four months, but couldnt. They then cancelled the policy, and complained to 
Affinity. Affinitys response noted that the term of the policy reflected what Mrs H had told 
them, when they sold the policy in 2016. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. After reviewing all the evidence, he felt Affinity had 
acted reasonably when selling the policies. Affinity, he felt, werent responsible for the error 
in the policys end date. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for the case to be looked at again, as they felt Affinity hadnt acted with 
the due care and skill required by their regulator. So the case has come to me for a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While itll likely be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H to hear, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint, for much the same reasons as have already been discussed by Affinity and our 
investigator. 
There are two key points for me here. The first is that the sales call in 2016 was clear that 
the policy to cover the mortgage was being set up for three years. Mrs H was asked a 
number of times to confirm that her mortgage would end in three years. And each time she 
said it would.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs feeling that the advisor they spoke to could have done more 
to confirm the exact date when the mortgage would end, rather than working with general 
figures. But I find that at the time, the conversation was clearly using the general three-year 
figure. And the documents sent out after the call also confirmed the policy was running for 
just three years  from July 2016 to July 2019. 
So I find Affinity gave Mr and Mrs H suitable notice that theyd set the policy up using the 
general three-year figure theyd been given. That gave Mr and Mrs H a reasonable chance 
to ask for it to be changed at the time, if they wanted the policy to link up more precisely with 
their mortgage. 
The other point that strikes me with this case is that Mr and Mrs H havent lost out financially 
due to the policy running for three years. The policy would only have paid out if one of them 
had died or developed a critical illness during its term. Happily, neither of them did, either for 
the three years of the policys term, or before their mortgage was paid off. 
That means theres very little difference for Mr and Mrs H in the policy running until July or 
November 2019, because they wouldnt have claimed against it either way. That puts this 
case in a different perspective for me, when compared with Mr and Mrs Hs view of it. 
Mr and Mrs H have talked about Affinitys handling of the complaint, which they say could 
have got the underwriter to see the policy could be extended. But when they complained to 
Affinity in June 2019, Mr and Mrs H told them theyd cancelled the policy in April. They were 
asking for a refund of premiums paid, not for the policy to be restarted or replaced. I find it 
reasonable that Affinity didnt therefore look at extending or replacing the policy.  
Mr and Mrs H have said they think our investigation should consider a conversation Mrs H 
had with Affinity in 2018. Mrs H says she told them at this point that her mortgage would end 
in November 2019, and was told her life insurance would cover that. 
Ive not listened to that call because we dont have a copy of it. Ive thought about asking 
Affinity for a copy, but it seems disproportionate. I cant see its going to change my view 
about the issue at the heart of this complaint  the sale of the policy in 2016. The key 
information for considering that is the sales call from 2016, which Ive listened to, and the 
documents sent out when the policy began, which Ive read. 
Reviewing that evidence, Ive found Affinity acted reasonably on the matter at the heart of 
this complaint. Ive decided not to review what was said in 2018, as even if what Affinity said 
gave Mr and Mrs H false reassurance, its not going to change my view that the policy was 
sold to them in a reasonable way, two years earlier.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman