DRN-3004546
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt send a card reader to an address in Spain 
and didnt respond to his communications about this.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with Barclays. In order to access his online banking, he required 
a card reader. But he left the UK to travel to Spain at the end of 2019 before he was 
provided with a card reader. Mr W initially planned to spend six months in Spain but has 
extended this, and currently remains in Spain following the cancellation of his return flight 
due to the global Coronavirus pandemic.
In around January 2021 Mr W says he wrote to his local Barclays branch in the UK 
explaining his situation and asking for a card reader to be sent to his Spanish address. 
But he received no reply and so on 3 February 2021 he complained via an independent 
online complaints platform.
Unfortunately, Barclays had difficulties communicating with Mr W about his complaint. 
For security reasons it wouldnt respond to his complaint via the online platform, so it 
emailed Mr W at the email address it held for him. It initially asked for a contact number to 
speak to him, but it received no reply. In the meantime, Barclays staff members also tried to 
call Mr W several occasions using the number it held for him but could not get through. 
On 10 February 2021 Barclays issued a final response letter (FRL) which was posted to 
Mr Ws UK address. 
In the FRL Barclays apologised for the fact Mr W hadnt received a card reader despite 
requesting one. The letter explained Mr W would need to update his online membership, 
amending his correspondence address to Spain so it could send him a card reader to his 
Spanish address. It provided him with a contact number he could call from abroad to arrange 
this, as it would need to verify his identity first. 
Mr W then emailed back and explained he didnt have a mobile phone and the number it had 
called was a UK number. He also said no one was accessing his post in the UK - he asked 
to be emailed. Barclays then emailed Mr W and asked for his consent to communicate over 
email without encryption, after which it could email him the FRL. It also offered to call Mr W 
again if he could provide a Spanish telephone number and it gave him numbers to call. 
Mr W responded on 20 February 2021 consenting to email communication without 
encryption and he was then sent Barclays response to his complaint. Barclays maintained 
that it was unable to send him a card reader without verifying his identity. 
Mr W was unhappy with this response and so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold his complaint. They felt Barclays had 
advised how Mr W could obtain a card reader and thought the process Barclays had outlined 
was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree as he didnt want to have to change his address. He felt Barclays didnt 
want to reply to his letter, as it was simply too complicated for it to reply by post. He also 
noted that he signed the letter he sent to branch and that this used to be sufficient 
verification for amendments to his bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has now explained to Mr W what he needs to do to get a card reader sent to him in 
Spain - he needs to contact Barclays to add his Spanish address to his account before it can 
dispatch a card reader there. But I note that Mr W remains unhappy as he doesnt think he 
should have to do this. Mr W doesnt want to have to change his address and he thinks 
Barclays should be able to send his card reader to the address hes given it. 
Having carefully considered things, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly here  Ill explain 
why.
There are extensive obligations placed on regulated financial businesses, as well as other 
entities, to have suitable systems in place for customer identification. This is about 
safeguarding consumers and their money as well as ensuring compliance with relevant 
legislation. Ultimately, Mr W is requesting a device that is used to safeguard access to 
Barclays banking system. And I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays is only willing to 
send this to addresses it has verified as belonging to its customers. 
I appreciate Mr W is confirming that he does indeed now live, at least temporarily, at his 
Spanish address. But hes done this via email. And whilst this was from an email Barclays 
had registered, this alone isnt enough to pass Barclayss customer verification process. 
Given Barclays has explained this to Mr W and offered him a method of verification that 
should be possible from Spain (telephone call  initiated by Barclays or Mr W), Im satisfied it 
has acted reasonably here. I appreciate Mr W doesnt have a mobile phone, but I think its 
fair for Barclays to presume he could gain access to a landline or public telephone, unless it 
is told otherwise. 
Barclays has since made our service aware that it will also accept a written request for an 
address change for oversees customers but that this must be accompanied by a certified 
copy of an identification document. I think Barclays could have told Mr W that this was an 
option sooner than it has. But given Mr W has made it clear to our service that he doesnt 
want to change his address on the account, I dont think this delay has disadvantaged Mr W. 
Im aware Mr W was also frustrated by the lack of response to his requests for a card reader. 
Its not clear what happened to his initial letter, but Barclays has said it didnt receive this. 
Whilst Mr W feels Barclays didnt respond because this was too difficult, I have no evidence 
to suggest this was the case. Ultimately, I dont think theres sufficient evidence either way to 
say what happened to this first letter. But Id note that even if Barclays had received it, it 
wouldnt have been able to act on Mr Ws instructions without verifying Mr Ws identity.
I realise Mr W also felt Barclays wasnt responding to his email enquiries about the card 
reader. But Im satisfied Barclays did respond. I appreciate this was hampered by the 
verification processes once again. But for the same reasons as outlined above, I dont think 
it was unreasonable in seeking to verify its customer according to its own security processes 
before discussing personal information.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman