DRN-3592487
The complaint
Mr P complains ReAssure Life Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold him a whole of life assurance 
policy.
Mr P is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC) but, for 
ease, Ill refer to Mr P directly throughout my decision.
What happened
In 1993, Mr P restructured a business loan. At the same time, an adviser for Barclays Life 
(who ReAssure have since acquired liability for) recommended he took out a Lifestages life 
assurance policy to repay the borrowing in the event of his death.
The policy provided £350,000 whole of life cover for a premium of £249.70 a month. The 
cover ended in 2001 when the policy lapsed after premiums stopped being met two years 
prior.
In 2021, Mr P Complained to ReAssure that the policy had been mis-sold because the 
premium consumed 20% of his total income at the time, he had no need for such a high level 
of cover and had alternative cover already in place.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint saying the recommendation was suitable for Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time. And they also said that taking out a suitable life cover policy was 
a lending condition put in place by Mr Ps bank.
Mr P remained unhappy, so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think ReAssure were responsible for 
protection being a condition of the lending being agreed. He was also satisfied the policy 
recommended was affordable, alternative policies had been discussed and the cover taken 
out met Mr Ps requirements at the time, so he didnt agree it had been mis-sold.
Mr P disagreed hed been provided information on the comparative cost of alternative 
options and said a decreasing term policy would have been more sufficient for his actual 
needs at the time. 
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr P, so Ill 
explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr P has said but I also must take into account that hes 
recalling conversations from thirty years ago. So, Ive had to balance his testimony with 
evidence available from the time of the sale. And understandably while there may not be a 
lot available, on balance, I find what I do have more persuasive than information given in 
hindsight sometime after the event.
ReAssure say taking out suitable protection was a requirement to Mr Ps business loan 
being agreed. From the evidence available to me, I cant be certain this was the case.
But it was common at the time for protection to be made a condition of borrowing and a bank 
setting out their own conditions of lending isnt unreasonable.
On balance Im satisfied having protection in place was beneficial to protect the borrowing, 
which the bank was entitled to ask for to be put in place, and Mr P didnt have to proceed 
with the lending if he was unhappy with the terms on offer.
Mr P raised concerns that the policy premiums were 20% of his monthly income at the time.
The fact-find completed at the time; recorded Mr P had a disposable income of £310. On 
face value I would agree that a premium of almost £250 sounds high. But it was recorded 
that the premium was to be paid as a business expense and not paid from Mr Ps disposable 
income. So, on balance, I dont agree the policy was unaffordable.
At the time the policy was taken out the sum assured matched the borrowing, but as the 
cover was a level term whole of life policy, the loan was repaid over time, but the sum 
assured stayed the same,
Its this which remains Mr Ps main point of complaint  that a decreasing term policy, which 
wouldve likely been cheaper, wouldve been better suited to his needs. Mr P says he had no 
dependants at the time so had no need for such a high level of cover and he wasnt given 
any information or comparative costs of alternative options. 
ReAssure have been able to provide a full personal fact find completed prior to the policy 
being sold. It records the adviser had a discussion about Mr Ps needs at the time.
The fact-find records that Mr P was 43 years of age, married and had one child dependant 
on him. It also records other policies such as level term and decreasing term were 
discussed, but whole of life was preferred by Mr P as it gave more flexibility to provide cover 
for possible future borrowing or family protection.
Taking everything into consideration, on balance, I dont think the advice provided by 
ReAssure was unsuitable. The policy provided the cover to protect the borrowing at the start, 
and as time went on provided additional protection in excess of the outstanding debt without 
requiring Mr P to apply for additional cover. Im satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman