DRN-2263382
The complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Santander UK Plc to Mrs T and Mr T in 2004 in connection with a joint mortgage.
 
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T applied for a mortgage. Mr T complained that his health issues were not 
taken into account. As he suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the start of the 
policy and as he had taken time off work for the medical condition, he concludes the policy 
would not have covered him.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that the policy would 
not have been suitable for them. Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view, so the 
matter was passed to me to consider. 
The policy only covered Mr T, so sometimes I will only refer to him, but I will also refer to Mrs 
T and Mr T where appropriate.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Mrs Ts and Mr Ts complaint for the reasons set out below.
Santander said the PPI sale in 2004 was an advised sale, so Santander had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mrs Ts and Mr Ts needs and it had to give them enough clear 
information so they could make an informed choice. It said the terms and conditions would 
have been explained to Mr T  including the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions) 
in respect of any pre-existing medical conditions. 
But Mr T said his health issues were not taken into account. He says that at the time of 
the sale, he had a pre-existing medical condition. He says he was taking three different 
types of medication for it which he listed and had taken time off work for the condition. I 
looked carefully at the policy which Santander said was sold in 2004. Under the 
exclusion clause, Mr T wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any condition he had 
at the start of the policy.
This is important because Mr T has confirmed his pre-existing medical condition was 
diagnosed around the summer of 1996 and he had later taken time off work in the past 
for it. The possible effect is that Mr T wouldnt have been covered by the PPI policy if he 
needed to make a claim due to the pre-existing medical condition. Mr T was also 
receiving treatment to control it and it was likely to continue. Its also clear to me he 
would have been aware of his condition at the time of the sale. 
So I think the exclusion clause meant the policy was not suitable for Mr Ts needs and this 
clause should have been highlighted to him more clearly. I am satisfied that Santander 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Mr T during the sale. I 
think that if Mr T had been properly informed about the exclusion, he probably wouldnt 
have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy given his medical circumstances at the time. 
As a result, this was a failing in the sale.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold on Mrs Ts and Mr Ts 
mortgage, so I uphold this complaint. I think Santander has to put things right for Mrs T and 
Mr T.
  
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mrs T and Mr T in the financial position theyd be in now
if they hadnt taken out PPI. So Santander UK Plc should:
refund to Mrs T and Mr T all the premiums they paid towards the PPI policy, and
pay 8% simple interest on these premiums, calculated from when each payment 
was made to the date when its refunded to Mrs T and Mr T.*
If Mr T has made a claim on the policy in the past, Santander UK Plc can take the 
value of that claim off the compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
UK Plc must give Mrs T and Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander UK Plc should put things 
right for Mrs T and Mr T as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman