DRN-2934282
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems he had accessing his Individual Savings Account (ISA) with 
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP.
What happened
On 20 February 2020 Mr S was having trouble logging into his account. He spoke with 
Parmenion the next day where the issue was passed to their I.T. department to try and 
resolve the problem. 
Parmenion telephoned Mr S on 26 February with a solution and he was able to log into his 
account.  
On 1 March 2020 Mr S placed a sell request for some shares which was actioned two days 
later. 
Mr S complained to Parmenion saying because he was unable to access his account he 
suffered a loss on the sale of the shares. Parmenion looked into the problem and whilst 
acknowledging that it was frustrating didnt accept liability for any losses. Parmenion said 
that Mr S had opportunities when he couldve placed trades and he hadnt made clear to 
them that was his intention. Parmenion offered Mr S £150 for this problem and another issue 
he was having. 
Mr S remained unhappy saying he had been disadvantaged by around £30,000. He brought 
his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what happened. They 
thought Parmenion wasnt liable for any losses as there was no indication Mr S was thinking 
of placing an instruction to sell the shares. They were happy the £150 suitably recognised 
the trouble caused. Mr S disagreed saying it was his intention to sell the shares when he first 
had trouble accessing his account, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to award the compensation Mr S asks for Id have to be persuaded of three things. 
Firstly, Id need to see that there was actually a problem. All parties agree there was a 
problem with the system, so Im satisfied this is the case.
Secondly, Id need to be persuaded that the problem stopped Mr S taking the actions he 
wanted to. Mr S says that he intended to place a sell request on 20 February 2020 when he 
tried to access his account. Theres no evidence of this from the time, but Mr S says thats 
what he wanted to do, so Im happy to take his word. 
Thirdly, and most importantly, Id need to be persuaded that any loss was foreseeable by 
Parmenion. As I said above theres no evidence from the time that Mr S wanted to place a 
trade. He says that he did, but in order to award any compensation Id need to happy that 
Parmenion were reasonably aware that Mr S wanted to place a trade, and that the problems 
with the system were stopping him doing this. 
When speaking with Parmenion and trying to sort out the problem Mr S said I dont know if I 
want to buy or sell any shares but, at the moment, I dont have the facility to do that  I just 
dont have the facilities available to me as and when I want to utilise them. 
By saying this I dont think Parmenion were made aware that Mr S wanted to place a trade at 
that time. So Im not persuaded they were aware of any potential loss as Mr S said he didnt 
know if he wanted to trade. 
Mr S says that he wanted to see how the price per share mightve changed as it mightve 
been better to delay selling his holding if the price was higher than the previous day. I see no 
reason to doubt that this was his intention, but Ive seen no evidence Parmenion were told 
about this; and thats the important factor. Ive also taken into consideration that in the same 
phone call Parmenion asked Mr S if he was after any specific information and he answered 
no. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im not persuaded Parmenion were 
made aware of any potential loss. Nor do I think that a loss of £30,000 was foreseeable 
considering what they were told by Mr S at the time. Theres no doubt there was a problem 
but Im satisfied the £150 offered by Parmenion fairly and reasonably recognises the 
inconvenience.
Putting things right
To put things right Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should pay Mr S £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
Parmenion Capital Partners LLP has already made an offer to pay Mr S £150 to settle the 
complaint which I think is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Parmenion Capital Partners LLP should pay Mr S £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman