DRN-3203253
The complaint
Mr B complains about AWP P&C SA (AWP) under his home emergency policy. Mr B is 
unhappy at how AWP responded to a leak in the roof at his property.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B noticed discolouration on a ceiling in his property. He went up to the 
roof space above the ceiling and saw water coming in. Mr B contacted AWP, who arranged 
for an engineer to visit the same day. The engineer said that the leak appeared to be the 
result of a problem with the flashing around the chimney on the roof. Mr B was told by AWP 
that they would be in touch with him in the next 24 hours.
However, Mr B didnt hear back so he contacted AWP again in February 2020. He was told 
that someone would call him back, but Mr B missed the call and when he contacted AWP, 
he was told to wait for the original advisor to call him back. This didnt happen and Mr B 
wasnt able to speak to AWP when he tried several times. Mr B emailed AWP in July 2020, 
asking that repairs be carried out. AWP treated this as a complaint but didnt then contact Mr 
B until they sent a final response in March 2021. AWP apologised for the delays but didnt 
say why the repairs hadnt been carried out or when they might be.
 
Given the delays and AWPs response, Mr B complained to this service. He was unhappy at 
the service hed received from AWP, that they hadnt contacted him when they said they 
would and hadnt repaired his roof. He asked that AWP complete repairs and fix the leak in 
his roof, as well as the damage to his ceiling. He also wanted AWP to assess any potential 
damage caused by the leak.
 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint, despite AWP not providing any evidence or 
information about Mr Bs claim or his complaint. The investigator concluded that AWP hadnt 
acted fairly in dealing with Mr Bs claim. He thought Mr Bs policy included cover for failures 
or breakdowns in roofing, but while they initially sent an engineer to diagnose the problem 
with the leak, they hadnt arranged for emergency repairs to be carried out as they should 
have done under terms of the policy. To put things right, the investigator said AWP should 
carry out repairs to fix the leak. But he didnt think AWP should repair the damage caused by 
the leak, as that wasnt covered by the policy. He also thought AWP should pay £250 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
review and decision.
In my findings I agreed with the investigators view that AWP hadnt acted fairly or 
reasonably towards Mr B. But while I agreed with the investigators view that AWP should 
carry out the necessary emergency repairs to Mr Bs roof, to stop the leak, given the lack of 
response from AWP (both to Mr B and to this service when he complained to us) then as an 
alternative I thought it would be fair for Mr B (if he would prefer) to arrange for the repair to 
be carried out by an appropriately qualified firm (assuming he hadnt already done so) and 
for AWP to reimburse him the cost. This would be based on a clear estimate setting out the 
cost of repairing the leak and subsequent evidence of a paid invoice including the same 
detail of work carried out. I agreed with the investigators view that £250 compensation to Mr 
B for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered was fair.
Because I set out an alternative option for AWP to put things right (if Mr B would 
prefer it) I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
AWP havent responded to this services requests for information and views on this 
complaint, despite having several opportunities to do so. Given this, Ive based my findings 
and conclusions on the evidence and information available. This comprises information from 
Mr B, including details of his policy with AWP, together with AWPs final response to his 
complaint. Taken together, I think theres enough for me to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
The main part of Mr Bs complaint is that AWP didnt provide the service to him they should 
have done, by not carrying out an emergency repair to his leaking roof despite initially 
diagnosing the problem. And that they subsequently didnt respond to Mr Bs attempts to 
contact them for the problem to be fixed and a repair carried out.
Looking at what happened, while AWP did send an engineer to inspect Mr Bs property and 
diagnose the cause of the problem (flashing around the chimney), they didnt then arrange 
for an emergency repair to be carried out, that would have stopped the leak. Ive looked at 
the terms of Mr Bs policy, which state the following:
This is home emergency insurance which covers costs for a tradesman to make 
emergency repairs to your home following damage or failure or breakdown 
ofroofing.
Roofing  Arranging attendance and paying call out and emergency repair costs 
following damage to the roof if its no longer watertight
Given the circumstances described by Mr B (together with the fact that an AWP engineer 
inspected the property and diagnosed the problem), then Ive concluded the policy covers 
both an attendance (which did happen) and for an emergency repair to be carried out (which 
didnt happen). Mr B wasnt charged for the engineer that attended his property (the call out) 
which suggests that AWP covered the cost, which would also support the conclusion that it 
was covered under the policy.
While an engineer attended and diagnosed the cause of the leak, no subsequent visit to 
repair the leak was arranged by AWP. Its not clear why this didnt happen. In their final 
response, AWP say that:
there will be occasions when unforeseen delays arise due to circumstances 
outside our control. Such delays may be due to weather conditions, other customer 
repairs taking longer that envisaged or the need to prioritise help for customers who 
are extremely vulnerable or faced with a dangerous issue.
AWP go on to apologise for the delays, as well as for the concern and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr B. But theres no explanation or reason given for why they didnt arrange for 
an emergency repair to be carried out. Ive therefore concluded that AWP havent acted fairly 
or reasonably towards Mr B by not arranging for an emergency repair to be carried out.Ive also considered the other aspects of Mr Bs complaint, including his request that AWP 
should repair the damage to his ceiling and that they should assess any potential damage 
caused by the leak. Mr Bs policy covers home emergency and, as set out above, the cost of 
call out and emergency repairs. But the policy doesnt cover damage caused by (as in this 
case) a leak. Nor would it cover potential damage caused by a leak. It could be that damage 
(or potential damage) might be covered under a home insurance policy (buildings and 
contents) that Mr B may have in respect of his property. But that isnt something that falls 
within this complaint.
Coming back to my conclusion that AWP havent acted fairly or reasonably towards Mr B, 
Ive considered what AWP need to do to put things right. AWP have apologised to Mr B, but I 
dont think this is enough in the circumstances. Our investigator said that AWP should carry 
out the necessary emergency repairs to Mr Bs roof, to stop the leak. While I agree that this 
would be reasonable, given the lack of response to date from AWP (both to Mr B and to this 
service when he complained to us) then as an alternative I think it would be fair for Mr B (if 
he would prefer) to arrange for the repair to be carried out by an appropriately qualified firm 
(assuming he has not already done so) and for AWP to reimburse him the cost. This would 
be based on a clear estimate setting out the cost of repairing the leak and subsequent 
evidence of a paid invoice including the same detail of work carried out. I think this option 
would also fall within the terms of the policy set out above (covering the cost of a tradesman 
to make emergency repairs).
Our investigator also thought that AWP should pay Mr B £250 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Ive thought about this carefully. Its not our role to punish businesses 
where they havent acted fairly towards consumers, but given the circumstances described 
by Mr B, the length of the delays and the inconvenience he has suffered, I think that £250 
would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
intend to require AWP P&C SA to:
Either arrange for the emergency repair to Mr Bs roof based on their engineers 
diagnosis of the problem or, if Mr B prefers, reimburse him for the cost of 
arranging for the repair to be carried out (assuming he has not already done so). 
This would be based on a clear estimate setting out the cost of repairing the leak 
and subsequent evidence of a paid invoice including the same detail of work 
carried out.
Pay Mr B £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B responded to say that he was satisfied by the provisional decision. He thought the 
option of either AWP arranging for the repair, or for him to be reimbursed for the cost of his 
arranging for the repair to be carried, was fair. Given his experience to date he said that he 
wasnt confident AWP would arrange the repairs, so he said that intended to arrange for 
them to be carried out himself. 
Mr B was also concerned at any damage caused as a consequence of the leak (and that it 
could have been prevented had AWP carried out the emergency repair on a timely basis). 
But he understood the provisional decision findings and conclusions on the issue of 
consequential damage from the leak.
 
Mr B also thought that £250 compensation was fair.An automated acknowledgement of the provisional decision was received from AWP, but no 
further response was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered Mr Bs points carefully and acknowledge that hes satisfied by my provisional 
decision and that he thinks its fair. The provisional decision gave Mr B the option of 
arranging for the emergency repairs to be carried out (and to be reimbursed by AWP for 
them). Mr Bs response indicates his clear preference for this option and I can understand 
the reasons hes given for that choice. 
For these reasons, I havent changed my view to uphold Mr Bs complaint. But given his 
preference to arrange for the repair to carried out and for AWP to reimburse him for the cost, 
then my final decision is to require this option. The rest of my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require 
AWP P&C SA to:
Reimburse Mr B for the cost of arranging for the repair to be carried out 
(assuming he has not already done so). This would be based on a clear estimate 
setting out the cost of repairing the leak and subsequent evidence of a paid 
invoice including the same detail of work carried out.
Pay Mr B £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman