DRN-2334803
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc didnt warn him that two important payments werent 
going to clear, although he was set up for text message alerts to be sent whenever this 
happens. Mr F has been supported in bringing this complaint by his representative.
What happened
Mr F said that TSB had failed to make two payments that he had set up by standing order to 
repay a private loan hed taken for £15,000. And he also said TSB failed to notify him that 
the standing orders werent going to clear, although he had text message alerts set up with 
it. Mr F said that even afterwards, he didnt get written confirmation that these two standing 
order payments had not been made at the time, although TSB sent copies of letters later. 
Mr F said the loan he was repaying carries heavy penalties if he misses a payment. Hed 
asked TSB to pay these penalties, because he thought it was TSBs fault the payments had 
been missed. He said if it had sent the text messages, then this wouldnt have happened. He 
said hed had money in his other TSB accounts at the time, and if hed got the text alerts, 
then he could just have moved some money to make sure his payments cleared.
Mr F said TSB had paid £200 for his penalty charges, but it was refusing to pay the much 
larger sum he said he owed for penalty interest. He wanted TSB to pay that. 
At first, TSB confirmed it hadnt sent text messages to warn Mr F that his standing orders of 
10 September 2018 and 10 July 2019 werent paid. And it said it accepted that if it had sent 
those messages, he wouldve put more money in his account. It paid £50 in compensation, 
and asked for evidence of what this cost him. Mr F sent TSB his loan agreement. 
TSB agreed to pay £200 to cover penalty charges on the loan. Mr F asked if it would pay the 
penalty interest too. 
TSB then said something different. It said that actually it wasnt able to confirm whether or 
not text messages had been sent, because it just didnt have records. It had paid the 
previous amount as a gesture of goodwill. And TSB also said that its records showed Mr F 
had added funds to his account the day of the July 2019 payment, and the day after the 
September 2018 payment, so it thought he was aware of the position of his account at the 
relevant times.
TSB said it now felt its previous decision to cover the penalty charge on Mr Fs loan was 
generous. It wouldnt increase this to cover the sizeable penalty interest that he said he had 
to pay. 
TSB also said that even if Mr F had moved money between accounts, once the standing 
order had failed it wouldnt have been retried until the next day. And as Mr Fs payment was 
due on the day it was made, these two payments would always have been late, and Mr F 
would always have incurred the charges he had told TSB about. TSB said that it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to make sure that there was money in his account to cover any payments due 
to come out of it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. In short, he agreed with TSB 
that Mr F was responsible for making sure there was enough money in his account to cover 
payments that were due. Our investigator said that what TSB had paid was probably more 
than he wouldve awarded in these circumstances. Our investigator also said that even if it 
could be proven that the text messages werent sent, he would still think it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to make sure he could meet payments when they are due.
Mr Fs representative replied for Mr F. He didnt agree. He wanted our service to consider 
the terms covering the text alerts, because he didnt agree that responsibility to make sure 
an account has enough money in it falls to Mr F. 
Our investigator agreed to look in depth at the terms covering TSBs text alerts. But once 
hed done that, he didnt change his mind. 
Our investigator set out many of the terms that cover text messages. He said that having 
checked those, he still thought TSB was able to decline a payment if there wasnt enough 
money in the account. TSB had agreed to cover the penalty charges as a gesture of 
goodwill. But our investigator said that he wouldnt say TSB was liable, even if it could be 
shown that the text messages Mr F was expecting werent sent. Those text messages were 
to help account holders, but it remained the responsibility of the account owner to ensure 
that there was enough money in the account. So he didnt think that TSB had to pay the 
penalty interest as well as the penalty charges.
Mr Fs representative said that TSB had accepted responsibility, when talking to Mr F on the 
phone. He suggested we should listen to the calls. He said TSB had previously used this text 
alerts service to tell Mr F that he was low on funds, and could transfer money in that day to 
make sure payments were met. Mr Fs representative said Mr F didnt get a letter about 
these missed payments, and had also not received letters about other missed payments. 
Mr Fs representative said that TSBs terms do not state that TSB will not be liable if a text 
alert is not issued to a customer. He asked if we could show otherwise. If not, then Mr Fs 
representative thought TSB should be liable for any costs that may be incurred as a result of 
the failure by TSB to notify the customer of a low balance, specifically when a text alert 
system was pre-arranged.
Mr Fs representative said the problem would easily have been resolved if TSB kept records 
of texts it sent. And he said Mr F wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
So it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
TSB doesnt say that it wont accept liability for missed payments if it fails to send a text 
message. But its clear from the information it does give about its text messages that it does 
not, and can not, guarantee that text messages will always be sent. And its not in control of 
whether they are received. TSBs Text Alerts User Guide says  
Are there times when I wont receive Text Alerts? 
You can usually register or manage the Text Alert Services at any time, but repairs, 
updates and routine maintenance on our systems and those of our suppliers mean 
particular services might be slow or unavailable from time to time. 
There might be other situations where you dont receive a text, for example because 
your phone is switched off, lacks signal or data connectivity.
I think thats in line with the other provisions of TSBs terms that our investigator considered, 
which all seem to me to say that TSB has put the text message system in place to try to help 
its customers, but it doesnt guarantee these messages will be sent. 
Because TSB isnt guaranteeing to send text messages, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to say it should be liable for anything that happens if text messages dont 
arrive. And that means I dont think TSB has to pay the penalty charges and interest that I 
understand Mr F feels he is liable for. 
Like our investigator, I think that Mr F remains primarily responsible for making sure that 
theres enough money in his account to cover payments due to be made. I understand that 
TSB is trying to help with this by providing text messages, and that it has provided this 
service to Mr F in the past. But that doesnt change the overall position.
Mr Fs representative said TSB had accepted responsibility, and he wanted me to listen to 
calls Mr F had made, so I could hear it had said this. But I dont think this would help Mr F 
either. It looks to me as if TSB did initially accept responsibility. It now says it was wrong to 
do that. Its allowed to change its mind about this. I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
TSB to do so.
I know that TSB has already paid Mr F £250 for this complaint. I dont think its required to do 
any more than that to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I know Mr F 
and his representative will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman