DRN-3555902
The complaint
Mr F, represented by his solicitors, complains that Nationwide Building Society treated him 
unfairly by overcharging him interest on his mortgage.
What happened
Mr F took out a mortgage with Nationwide in April 2008. The mortgage was taken out on 
Nationwides Base Mortgage Rate (BMR), which was their standard variable rate at the time. 
At the time the mortgage was agreed, the BMR was 6.74%. The mortgage was taken out on 
a repayment basis over 21 years.
The mortgage offer stated that the BMR was guaranteed to be no more than 2% above the 
Bank of England base rate (base rate). It also said that any variation to the interest rate as a 
result of a change in the base rate would take place within one month of the announcement 
of such change. It said that before or after the loan is made, Nationwide may change the 
BMR under the Mortgage Conditions 2001, which would result in a change to the monthly 
payment.
Since Mr Fs mortgage was taken out, the Bank of England base rate and BMR have 
operated as follows:
Effective DateBase 
rateBMR Difference
30/04/2008  5% 6.74% 1.74%
01/05/2008 6.49% 1.49%
08/10/2008 4.5%   
01/11/2008  6.19% 1.69%
06/11/2008 3%
01/12/2008  4.69% 1.69%
04/12/2008 2%
01/01/2009  4% 2%
08/01/2009 1.5%
01/02/2009  3.5% 2%
05/02/2009 1%
01/03/2009  3% 2%
05/03/2009 0.5%
01/04/2009  2.5% 2%
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/09/2016  2.25 2%
02/11/2017 0.5%
01/12/2017 2.5% 2%
02/08/2018 0.75%
01/09/2018  2.75% 2%
11/03/2020 0.25%
19/03/2020 0.1%
01/04/2020 2.25%
15/04/2020 2.1% 2%
So the BMR has reduced and increased when the base rate has reduced and increased, 
albeit not always by the same margin.
Each time the BMR changed, the interest rate applied to Mr Fs mortgage also changed 
within the timeframes set out in the mortgage offer. The BMR was changed within one month 
of each base rate change, and as a result it never exceeded the 2% cap margin as per the 
agreed terms.
Mr Fs mortgage was redeemed in January 2021.
Mr Fs complaint
In March 2020 Mr Fs representatives complained to Nationwide on his behalf. In summary, 
he complained that:
The standard variable rate (SVR) charged on his mortgage was unfair. 
He has been overcharged interest on his mortgage payments as the SVR has been 
set unfairly. Mr Fs representative also said Mr F believes the mortgage offer was 
unclear about how changes could be made to the SVR.
He was aware of the difference between the SVR and the Bank of England base rate 
(the margin) when deciding whether this mortgage was suitable for him. But the 
SVR hasnt varied in line with the base rate, and Nationwide have used their 
discretion about when and how to vary the SVR unfairly. This has caused an unfair 
increase in the margin.
He was misled to believe the SVR would vary in line with the base rate, so the 
margin between the two would remain the same.
He couldnt dissolve the agreement and switch to a new lender following changes to 
the SVR, as this would incur a cost. These limitations on Mr Fs ability to repay the 
borrowing or transfer elsewhere meant the changes Nationwide made to the SVR 
were unfair.
Mr Fs representatives have raised several arguments to support the overarching complaint 
that Mr F has been treated unfairly. This includes reference to the law, and the rules set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as well as a report prepared by a third party - Retail 
Mortgages in the UK  Lending Strategies and Borrowers issues. I have considered them 
all carefully.
Nationwides response
Nationwide said that Mr Fs complaint had been brought out of time under the time limits. 
In summary, they also said that:
The description of the BMR in the mortgage offer was not unclear and did not lack 
transparency. They said the offer clearly explained to Mr F:
oWhen the BMR would apply.
oWhat the current BMR was at the time of the offer.oThat the BMR was guaranteed to be no more than 2% above base rate.
There was no indication within the mortgage offer, or elsewhere in the mortgage 
documentation that the BMR would track base rate. 
Mr F was informed of all costs and charges associated with the mortgage from the 
mortgage offer, the published fee tariff, and the annual mortgage statements. 
There was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) payable on Mr Fs mortgage, so there 
was no barrier to exiting the mortgage agreement if Mr F was unhappy with the 
variations made to the BMR.
Before 2009, Mr F had benefited from their decision to maintain the BMR below the 
2% cap. They were able to maintain that position in the market conditions that 
preceded the 2008-2010 financial crisis, but that position could not be maintained 
thereafter. 
The Mortgage Terms and Conditions set out a number of reasons why Nationwide 
could decide to vary the BMR. The variation reasons were not, therefore, limited to 
changes in base rate.
Mr Fs representatives referred the complaint to our service on his behalf. Nationwide didnt 
give our service consent to consider the complaint as they said it had been made outside of 
the time limits. 
Jurisdiction and matters relevant to the scope of our investigation 
Our service issued a decision which set out which parts of Mr Fs complaint we had the 
power to consider. The Ombudsman decided that we could only consider Mr Fs complaint 
about the interest Nationwide had charged on his mortgage from March 2014 onwards. 
The Ombudsman also said that when considering whether the rate charged from March 
2014 onwards was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, we will need to 
have regard to the changes made to the interest rate before March 2014 which led to the 
rate charged and the payments Mr F made after March 2014. 
Our Investigator then went on to consider the merits of Mr Fs complaint limited to the 
interest Nationwide charged from March 2014 onwards. Having done so, he didnt think 
Nationwide had acted unfairly, and he wrote to the parties explaining why. 
Request for Ombudsman reviewMr Fs representatives asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
decision. They asked the Ombudsman to consider the third party report theyd submitted 
which they said confirmed that the costs of funds decreased following the credit crisis. And 
that whilst the costs of funds is only one factor in setting interest rates, it contradicts the 
information Nationwide had provided.
Our Investigator responded to explain that hed considered all of the evidence Mr Fs 
representatives had provided, but that didnt change his opinion about whether Nationwide 
had acted unfairly.
Mr Fs representatives still disagreed, but did not make any further substantive 
representations, and so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his provisional assessment, the Investigator set out a detailed explanation of the reasons 
that led him to conclude that Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr F. I have carefully considered the complaint and the evidence, and, having done so, I 
agree with and adopt the reasoning in the Investigators provisional assessment.  For ease, 
Ive set out what he said below:
We are required to determine complaints by reference to what is, in the ombudsmans 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint, I am 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
When considering the complaint that Mr Fs representatives have made on behalf of Mr F, 
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said. Whilst I may not refer to every 
point Mr Fs representatives and Nationwide have made, I have considered them  but Ive 
focused on what I believe to be the crux of the complaint, and the matters that I feel are 
material to an overall fair outcome. 
I have considered the complaint under the following headings:
Whether the interest rate should have tracked Bank of England base rate
Whether the term allowing Nationwide to vary the BMR was unfair
Whether Nationwide treated Mr F unfairly in varying the BMR in the way that it did
In doing so, I have addressed the points Mr Fs representatives have made on his behalf.
Whether the interest rate should have tracked Bank of England base rate
The margin between Bank of England base rate and the BMR
 
Mr Fs representatives have said that he was aware of the margin between the base rate 
and Nationwides BMR when this mortgage was taken out, and that he was led to believe 
one of the features of this mortgage was that the interest rate would track the base rate over 
the term.The representatives representations about this may be viewed in two ways:
1. That Mr F was misled when entering the contract into believing it would track the 
base rate when that was not in fact the case. Any such complaint would now be out 
of time, and I am not satisfied that this allegation is relevant context to any of the 
other questions I have to answer. So I have not addressed this specific issue any 
further.
2. That Nationwide was under a contractual obligation to charge an interest rate that 
tracked the base rate.
In reviewing whether Nationwide have acted fairly since March 2014, Ive considered the 
relevant offer document and the information Mr F was given at the time the mortgage 
contract was agreed. 
Whilst Mr Fs representatives have referred to a margin between the base rate and the 
BMR, it is not clear whether they suggest this is set out explicitly, or rather it was something 
that Mr F believed would happen for other reasons. I havent seen anything in the written 
information provided to Mr F that would have suggested the BMR would track the base rate 
during the mortgage term. The mortgage offer does state that the BMR was guaranteed to 
be no more than 2% above base rate. But that doesnt mean it would track base rate by the 
same margin between the two as at the time of sale (1.74%) throughout the term of the 
loan. Considering the terms of the mortgage that Mr F agreed to, Im satisfied the BMR was 
not a tracker rate. 
Mr Fs representatives have also said that the terms and conditions werent included in the 
offer document itself, and therefore shouldnt form part of the agreement. I understand them 
to suggest that the terms and conditions were not incorporated into the agreement. Theyve 
said the relevant information about how the BMR would operate should have been included 
in the mortgage offer. 
Ive considered what theyve said, but I dont agree. The law doesnt require all of the terms 
of a contract to be set out in a single document, and there are good reasons why general 
terms and conditions (which apply to all of a lenders mortgages) will be in a separate 
document from the offer (which will be specific to the individual customer).
In addition, at the time of the application in 2008 Nationwide sent a letter to Mr F containing 
the offer document, and the Mortgage Terms and Conditions (2001) document, and the offer 
document specifically refers to the Mortgage Terms and Conditions (2001): 
We are pleased to offer you a loan on the following basis, which you must repay with 
interest and other fees and costs on the terms set out in this Mortgage Offer and our 
Mortgage Terms & Conditions (2001) (England and Wales) and any special 
conditions attached.
I therefore think its clear that both of these documents make up the contract agreed by Mr F 
and Nationwide, and so Im satisfied the terms and conditions set out in the separate 
document apply to the mortgage.
Ive also kept in mind that a mortgage represents a substantial liability for the large majority 
of borrowers, secured on their principal asset, and I think that  ordinarily  a borrower such 
as Mr F ought reasonably to be treated as if they had read all of the information provided 
with the mortgage offer, including the associated terms and conditions  whether or not in 
practice they did. Overall, I am satisfied that Mr F entered into a contract that did not commit to track the Bank 
of England base rate, was made sufficiently aware of its terms, and that Nationwide has 
sought to charge interest in accordance with the terms of that contract.
Ive explained why Im satisfied that the terms contained within the terms and conditions 
document form part of the contract between Nationwide and Mr F. And that I dont agree that 
theres a fixed margin set out in the terms in the way Mr Fs representatives have identified. 
However, Mr Fs representatives have also (i) said that the terms setting out the 
circumstances in which Nationwide could make changes to the BMR charged on Mr Fs 
mortgage were unfair as a matter of law, and (ii) raised concerns about the fairness of 
Nationwides decisions to vary the BMR.
Im satisfied that the fairness of the BMR over the entire term of the loan is a relevant 
consideration when assessing whether the interest rate applied to Mr Fs mortgage during 
the period I can consider was fair. Thats because since March 2014 Mr F has paid the BMR, 
and the interest rate Nationwide charged during that time was the product of variations it had 
made to the BMR over the entire term of the loan. 
The BMR applied from March 2014 onwards wasnt set in a vacuum, but rather was the 
product of earlier decisions. Im therefore satisfied that I need to consider how the BMR was 
varied to reach a decision about what is fair and reasonable - as I am required to do by the 
DISP rules - in all the circumstances of the case. If there are issues with the fairness of the 
SVR itself, then I think that necessarily means that there may be issues with the fairness of 
monthly payments from March 2014 onwards made by reference to the BMR. However, if 
our service decides to uphold the complaint, redress can only be awarded for the period 
from March 2014 onwards.
I am mindful that Nationwide does not agree it is appropriate for me to consider the 
variations and BMR history before March 2014 when deciding what is fair and reasonable.  
But for the reasons set out below, I do not in any event think Nationwide acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the period before March 2014 (or after), so this question does not ultimately 
affect my overall conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.    
The fairness of the interest rate terms
Ive first considered the terms of the contract: (i) what they say about the rate that will apply, 
(ii) how Nationwide may vary the BMR, and (iii) whether there is anything inherently unfair 
about the terms allowing Nationwide to vary the BMR. 
(i) The rates permitted by the contract
As Ive previously explained, section 4 of the mortgage offer said that:
Your loan will be on: Our Base Mortgage Rate, which is our standard variable rate, 
currently 6.74%, which will apply from completion for the term of your mortgage. This 
rate is guaranteed to be no more than 2% above the Bank of England base rate. For 
the purpose of this guarantee, any variation to the interest rate as a result of the 
change in the Bank of England base rate will take place within one month of the 
announcement of such change. Before or after the loan is made, we may change our 
Base Mortgage Rate under our Mortgage Conditions 2001. This will result in a change 
to your monthly payment.When Mr F was paying the BMR, each of the changes made to that rate were made 
following a change, and by reference to, the base rate.  
(ii) The interest rate terms  varying the BMR   
Some information relating to the BMR was set out in the Mortgage Terms and Conditions 
(2001), a separate document to the mortgage offer. These state that:
We may change the interest rate applicable to the debt at any time except during any 
fixed rate period under the mortgage offer. Any change in interest rate will be notified 
to you either by advertisement or by personal notice (or both) under condition 17. Any 
change in the interest rate will not come into effect until we have given notice of the 
change under condition 17.
Nationwide have provided evidence to show that each time the interest rate was changed on 
Mr Fs mortgage, they wrote to him to tell him about the change.
In relation to changes to the interest rate, the relevant terms and conditions are set out under 
section 5 of the Mortgage Terms and Conditions (2001). Ive set out the key parts of this 
section below.
5.2 We will only change the interest rate for one or more of the following reasons:
(i) to reflect a change, or a change we expect to occur, in the cost of funds we use for 
our mortgage lending;
(ii) to reflect any change in the law or decision by a court;
(iii) to reflect a change in regulatory requirements;
(iv) to reflect a change in the way the property is used or occupied;
(v) to reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan.
(iii) Are the terms allowing Nationwide to vary the BMR unfair as a matter of law?
In my view, the law relating to unfair terms in consumer contracts is of particular relevance to 
this aspect of the complaint, specifically the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). 
I have set out the law in some detail, because there are a number of matters I need to 
consider when deciding how they apply to the facts of the present complaint.
The relevant law
Regulation 5(1) says:
"A contractual  term which  has not been  individually  negotiated  shall  be regarded  
as unfair  if, contrary  to the requirement  of good  faith , it causes  a significant  
imbalance  in the parties  rights  and obligations  arising  under  the contract,  to the 
detriment  of the consumer.
Regulation  6 says:
"(1) ... the unfairness  of a contractual  term shall  be assessed,  taking  into account  
the nature  of the goods  or services  for which  the contract  was concluded  and by 
referring,  at the time of conclusion  of the contract , to all the circumstances  attending  the conclusion  of the contract  and to all the other  terms  of the contract  
or of another  contract  on which  it is dependent.
So its important to remember that I have to consider whether the variation terms were unfair 
based on the situation when Mr F took the mortgage out. 
(2)In so far as it is in plain  intelligible  language,  the assessment  of fairness  of a 
term shall  not relate  -
(a)To the definition  of the main  subject  matter  of the contract,  or
(b)To the adequacy  of the price  or remuneration,  as against  the goods  or services  
supplied  in exchange."
The UTCCR  includes  a non-exhaustive  grey  list in Schedule  2 of example  terms  that 
may be regarded  as unfair.  This list includes  the following  example:
"1. Terms  which  have  the object  and effect  of-
(j) enabling  the seller  or supplier  to alter the terms  of the contract  unilaterally  
without  a valid  reason  which  is specified  in the contract
However,  the scope  of this is limited  by paragraph  2(b) of this Schedule  which  states:
"Paragraph  1(j) is without  hindrance  to terms  under  which  a supplier  of financial  
services  reserves  the right to alter the rate of interest  payable  by the consumer  or 
due to the latter,  or the amount  of other  charges  for financial  services  without  
notice  where  there  is a valid  reason,  provided  that the supplier  is required  to 
inform  the other  contracting  party  or parties  thereof  at the earliest  opportunity  and 
that the latter  are free to dissolve  the contract  immediately."
Regulation  8 of the UTCCR  states  the remedy  that should  be applied  in the event  a 
court  finds  a contract  term unfair.  It says:
(1)An unfair  term in a contract  concluded  with a consumer  by a seller  or supplier  
shall  not be binding  on the consumer.
(2)The contract  shall  continue  to bind the parties  if it is capable  of  continuing  in 
existence  without  the unfair  term.
There  is a body  of case  law from both UK courts  and the Court  of Justice  of the 
European  Union  (CJEU)  which  has considered  the fairness  of various  terms  over time,  
although,  the latter  only provide  general  guidance  as it's for the UK courts  to decide  if a 
particular  term is unfair.  I have  referred  to this below  where  relevant.  
Main  subject  matter  of the contract:  Regulation  6(2) of the UTCCR  says  that any 
terms  that relate  to the main  subject-matter  of the contract  or adequacy  of the price  and 
remuneration  - these  are often  described  as "core  terms"   cannot  be assessed  for 
fairness.  So if the BMR  variation  clause  is a core term,  a court  could  not consider  
whether  it was unfair  for the purposes  of the UTCCR.
The CJEU  concluded  that a price  variation  clause  in a contract  is not a 'core  term'  in the 
Invitel  case  (Case  C-472/10).  It said:"the assessment  of the unfair  nature  of terms  is to relate  neither  to the definition  
of the main  subject-matter  of the contract  nor to the adequacy  of the price  and 
remuneration  ... this exclusion  cannot  apply  to a term relating  to a mechanism  for 
amending  the prices  of the services  provided  to the consumer ."
Fairness:  The leading  UK judgment  on the UTCCR  is the 2015  Supreme  Court  case  
ParkingEye  v Beavis. The Court  noted  that the test in Regulation  5(1) - of a "significant  
imbalance"  contrary  to the requirement  of "good  faith"  - merely  defines  in a general  way 
the factors  which  render  unfair  those  contract  terms  that have  not been  individually  
negotiated.
The Court  said that: 
the test for establishing  a significant  imbalance  includes,  but is not limited  to, 
asking  whether  the terms  of the agreement  deprive  the consumer  of an 
advantage  which  they would  enjoy  under  national  law in the absence  of the 
contractual  provision;
the question  of whether  a term is contrary  to the requirements  of good  faith  
depends  on an objective  hypothetical  negotiation,  asking  whether  an informed  
consumer  would  have  agreed  to the term in question  during  individual  contract  
negotiations.  This should  take into account  a wider  circumstantial  review,  such  
as the relationship  with other  relevant  contractual  terms;  and
consideration  should  be given  to the nature  of the goods  or services  supplied,  
including  the significance,  purpose  and effect  of the term in question.

FCA guidance (FG18/07) on unfair terms in consumer contracts says that The fairness 
assessment is a holistic assessment and these two elements may overlap in the way they 
apply to any particular set of facts and that the applicable law recognises the importance of 
striking a fair balance between the legitimate interests of both the supplier and consumer. 
That means that the seller or supplier may be able to show theyve acted in good faith where 
they can show theyve taken the consumers legitimate interest into account. That guidance 
also provides an overview of factors relevant to determining whether or not a variation term 
is fair.
The good faith requirement behind the test is multi-faceted, as was explained by Lord 
Bingham (in the context of the original 1994 Regulations) as follows: 
The requirement of good faith in this context is one of fair and open dealing. 
Openness requires that the terms should be expressed fully, clearly and legibly, 
containing no concealed pitfalls or traps. Appropriate prominence should be given to 
terms which might operate disadvantageously to the customer. Fair dealing requires 
that a supplier should not, whether deliberately or unconsciously, take advantage of 
the consumers necessity, indigence, lack of experience, unfamiliarity with the subject 
matter of the contract, weak bargaining position or any other factor listed in or 
analogous to those listed in Schedule 2 to the [1994] Regulations  Good faith in this 
context is not an artificial or technical concept;  . It looks to good standards of 
commercial morality and practice. Regulation 4(1) lays down a composite test, 
covering both the making and the substance of the contract, and must be applied 
bearing clearly in mind the objective which the Regulations are designed to promote.
Transparency: In Kasler (Case C- 26/13) the CJEU considered the meaning of 'plain 
intelligible language' in the context of terms in a loan agreement. It said that the requirement 
of transparency must be understood in a broad sense. A term which has the effect of 
increasing the cost at the consumer's expense didn't just have to be formally and grammatically correct, but the reason for and particularities of a variation term have to be 
clear and intelligible. So does the term's relationship with other terms in the contract, relating 
to the advance of the loan. This is so the average consumer is aware of the variation term 
and can assess the potential economic consequences for them which might derive from it.
In RWE (Case C/92/11) the CJEU stressed that it is of fundamental importance for that 
purpose, first, whether the contract sets out in transparent fashion the reason for and 
method of the variation of the charges for the service to be provided, so that the consumer 
can foresee, on the basis of clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may be made to 
those charges. In addition, the CJEU was concerned that the customer is provided with 
meaningful criteria by which they can verify, and if necessary challenge, any proposed 
variation to the rate.
In Matei (C-143/13) the CJEU referred to the loan agreement needing to set out 
transparently the reasons for and the particularities of the mechanism for altering the 
interest rate and the relationship between that mechanism and the other terms relating to the 
lenders remuneration, so that the consumer can foresee, on the basis of clear, intelligible 
criteria, the economic consequences for him which derive from it.
So when considering whether the SVR variation clause is sufficiently transparent, I will need 
to consider whether it gives the customer adequate clarity on not only the reasons for the 
variation, but also the method used so that the customer can foresee the economic 
consequences of the banks power to change the SVR and verify the basis for the change to 
the rate.
Barriers to exit: In RWE the CJEU placed a great deal of importance on the consumer not 
only having the right to terminate the contract in the event of a unilateral price variation; but 
actually being able to exercise this right in practice. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
guidance states at paragraphs 66 and 67 that firms should consider the consumers freedom 
to exit the contract if they do not accept the variation, and how they can actually do so. This 
should include the financial and practical barriers which may prevent them from doing so 
within any advance notice or reasonable timeframe. Examples of barriers could be exit 
charges or requiring the consumer to give a long period of notice, but that this may also be 
practical barriers outside the contractual terms that might prevent or hinder the consumer 
exiting the contract within any advance notice period or reasonable timeframe.
So, when considering whether the terms give rise to a significant imbalance in the rights and 
obligations of the parties contrary to the requirements of good faith, I will need to consider 
whether and the extent to which an average consumer would foreseeably be able to 
exercise the right to terminate the contract in practice.
Application to the complaint
I have considered the relevance of the law relating to unfair terms to the interest rate 
variation term in this case. Im satisfied that I need to address the following in deciding 
whether the BMR variation clause was unfair:
Whether the term is a core term
Whether the term creates a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations 
to the consumers detriment contrary to the requirement of good faith
I have reminded myself that the decision whether the term is unfair should be made in the 
light of what sort of contract is in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the 
other terms say and all the circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing 
whether a term is unfair involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then as it were standing back to consider the term in its full context, both within the 
contract and in all the surrounding circumstances. 
Core term: Properly understood, the terms relate to the mechanism for amending the price 
of the services provided, rather than the price itself. In Invitel the CJEU took a similar view. 
They are therefore ancillary terms whose fairness can be assessed under the applicable fair 
terms legislation. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether the terms create a significant imbalance in the rights 
and obligations of the parties contrary to the requirements of good faith.
Significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good faith: I have reminded 
myself that I need to undertake a holistic (or in the round) analysis of whether the terms 
strike a fair balance between the legitimate interests of both the supplier and consumer. In 
doing so I have looked at:
Whether the terms deprive consumers of an advantage they would enjoy under 
national law in the absence of the terms;
Whether the terms go further than is reasonably necessary to protect the lenders 
legitimate interests and whether the lender, dealing equitably and fairly with a 
consumer, could reasonably assume that the average consumer would have agreed 
to the term in hypothetical individual contract negotiations; 
Whether there were significant practical barriers to dissolving the agreement that 
may show unfairness.
I note that the FCA Guidance sets out at paragraph 41 a list of factors that may make a term 
unfair. I also note that the guidance says that the assessment is intensely fact-specific:
Subject to the general law on unfair contract terms and to proper consideration of all 
the relevant circumstances, we consider that the factors listed in the table are 
relevant when assessing the fairness of variation terms. There may be other factors 
to consider, and the presence or absence of one or more of the factors does not 
necessarily mean that a term is fair or unfair. The factors are not listed in order of 
importance and there is some overlap between them. The weight to be given to the 
factors will depend on all the circumstances relevant to the assessment of the 
fairness of the particular term.
As discussed above, I need to ask whether the terms of the agreement deprive the 
consumer of an advantage which they would enjoy under national law if the term was not 
there. Im not satisfied that an interest rate variation clause does this in and of itself. Thats 
because, at a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose. As the FCA guidance 
says at paragraph 34: 
Unilateral variation terms are common in financial services consumer contracts. This 
is particularly the case for contracts of long or indeterminate duration, such as current 
account, personal pension, mortgage or credit card agreements. We acknowledge the 
benefit of fair variation terms to firms and consumers, because they allow contracts to 
be changed over their lifetime, making them more available to consumers. For 
example, being able to change variable-rate contracts allows firms to offer 
competitively-priced products that do not just track base rate, so offering consumers 
greater choice. This is because firms know that they can vary the interest rates they 
charge to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding
Reversion rates serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide for future 
changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by nature difficult to foresee. So Im satisfied that, if the agreement itself didnt include a rate variation 
clause, its reasonable to assume that national law would provide for a mechanism allowing 
a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. And I think the average customer could 
reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to it in hypothetical negotiations. 
I think the real issues are whether the terms in this agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect Nationwides legitimate interests, whether the BMR variation clauses 
are sufficiently transparent, and whether there were significant barriers to Mr F dissolving the 
contract. 
I am satisfied that the reasons for changes at 5.2 of the terms and conditions are legitimate. 
The purposes are limited and appear designed to enable Nationwide to respond to changing 
circumstances beyond its control which may have an impact on how it runs its mortgage 
business. I have also noted that the terms could operate to a consumers benefit, namely by 
reducing the SVR (which happened in this case), and that the terms and conditions provide 
for Nationwide to give notice before a change takes effect.
Im also satisfied that the terms contained within the Mortgage Terms and Conditions (2001) 
document largely satisfy the wider transparency requirements. Grammatically they are easy 
to follow, the circumstances in which changes might be made are set out in what I consider 
to be adequate detail, and their effect is something that could be assessed objectively. In 
other words, I am satisfied that a customer could understand the underlying basis and, in 
broad terms, the mechanics for any decisions taken that relied on those terms, be able to 
understand broadly the economic consequences of entering into the agreement and, if 
necessary, challenge a variation made in reliance on them. 
Given what Ive said above about variation rates serving a legitimate purpose, I think a 
hypothetical consumer would have agreed to a term that enabled the lender to increase the 
SVR payable on their mortgage for the relatively limited reasons set out in the contract. So I 
do not think it is likely a court would consider the term unfair for that reason. 
But I accept that it is possible that a court might conclude that the term could give further 
detail on the circumstances in which the rate might change, and therefore could be more 
transparent. For the purpose of considering whether the term is fair, I have proceeded on the 
basis that the term is not as transparent as it might be. 
I have also considered whether  at the time the contract was taken out  there were likely to 
be such significant barriers to Mr F dissolving the contract that he could not effectively make 
use of the right to do so. That is something I need to consider both for the sake of deciding 
whether the term may be on the grey list in Schedule 2 of the UTCCR that may be regarded 
as being unfair, as well as part of the wider analysis of whether the term creates a significant 
imbalance contrary to the requirement of good faith.  If there were such barriers, that may 
mean that the variation terms are unfair. 
I have reminded myself that  in assessing whether the term itself is unfair - the test is not 
whether there were significant practical barriers for Mr F at the point at which the BMR was 
varied, but rather whether it was foreseeable at the time the contract was entered into that 
there may have been such barriers. 
There was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) applicable to Mr Fs mortgage. So if 
Nationwide had exercised their rights as set by the variation term, and Mr F was unhappy 
with that decision, he was free under the contract to transfer his mortgage to another lender 
if he wished without having to pay a charge to end the existing contract with Nationwide. 
Mr Fs representatives have said that other costs impacted on Mr Fs ability to redeem his 
mortgage and transfer to another lender, and the offer sets out that if the mortgage is redeemed theres a redemption charge due of £90. Ive considered this, but Im not satisfied 
that this fee was a significant barrier to his (or any other consumers) ability to redeem the 
loan in the way that e.g. an ERC would be. This fee wouldve always been due when the 
mortgage was redeemed, whether that was before the end of the intended term or not, and 
is set out clearly in the offer document. 
Mr Fs representatives have also said that had Mr F chosen to move his mortgage to another 
lender, he would have been subject to switching costs. I assume Mr Fs representatives are 
referring here to the costs associated with taking out a new mortgage, such as application 
and product fees, as well as valuation fees and solicitors costs. Whilst I agree that it is likely 
Mr F would have incurred these costs if hed chosen to move his mortgage, Im not 
persuaded these are the sort of significant barriers that the CJEU and FCA had in mind 
when determining whether a variation clause is unfair. A borrower would incur these costs if 
ever they sought to switch lender.
So I dont think that the variation terms would have been unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere.
Conclusion on fairness: I think that a court would conclude that the variation terms were 
not unfair and would not fall within the Schedule 2 grey list. Although it is arguable that the 
terms could be more transparent, I am satisfied that overall they do not create a significant 
imbalance between the parties contrary to the requirement of good faith, and that a 
consumer in a hypothetical negotiation would have agreed to the term. So for the purposes 
of this decision, I have proceeded on the basis that the variation terms I have discussed 
above are not unfair as a matter of law.
If I am wrong about that, Ive reminded myself that legally, the effect of a term being unfair is 
that it wont apply. But that wouldnt necessarily mean that there has been unfairness. Our 
service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes  but is not limited to  relevant law.
So while I have taken account of the relevant law regarding unfair contractual terms, Ive 
also thought more broadly about whether, and the extent to which, the way in which the 
terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr F. I think that is the ultimate 
question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold the complaint.
Have Nationwide exercised the terms fairly?
Mr Fs representatives have said that there is an implied term that a party such as Mr F 
contracting with a seller or supplier such as Nationwide will pay a reasonable charge. And 
for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think its realistic to expect a reversion rate to remain 
static over a period of 20-30 years.
I think that it is necessary to consider what  if any  unfairness Mr F suffered as a result of 
mortgage payments based on changes to his interest rate. And that requires me to consider 
whether Nationwide have exercised the terms fairly. So Ive considered (i) whether I think 
Nationwide had legitimate reasons for varying the rate in the way it did, and (ii) the impact on 
Mr F.
Im not satisfied that there is anything inherently unfair about a mortgage remaining on a 
reversionary variable rate. They serve a legitimate purpose in permitting lenders to provide 
for future changes that justify changes in the rate, where costs to them are variable. Some 
borrowers choose to pay the reversionary variable rate on their mortgage as a result of the 
flexibility it offers as, in this case, whilst its the rate payable on the mortgage, borrowers are 
usually free to shop around without incurring an ERC. So, Ive thought about why Nationwide made changes to their BMR, and more broadly 
whether there is anything unfair about the rate Mr F has paid. 
Ive already explained that our service only has the power to consider the complaint points 
Mr Fs representatives have raised from the period March 2014 onwards. But my 
investigation into the complaint needs to consider all the circumstances relevant to the case. 
That includes the changes made to the BMR over the entire term of the mortgage. As these 
are relevant to my investigation into the parts of the complaint I can consider. Having done 
so, Im not persuaded Nationwide have varied the rate unfairly. Ill explain why.
Since Mr F took out his mortgage and started paying the BMR, the rate only reduced until 
base rate increased in 2017. Throughout the entire term of the mortgage, the BMR remained 
within the 2% cap above the base rate, as set out in the terms.
However, the margin between the BMR and base rate did increase from 1.74% (when the 
mortgage was agreed in 2008) to 2% in January 2009. During this period it was a time of 
significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the 
funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest 
rates charged across the market at the time. 
Nationwide have explained to our service how they made the decision to reduce their BMR 
by the amount they did, and the sorts of factors they took into account. The detailed 
information they have given us about that is commercially sensitive, and so its something 
that I think its reasonable for our service to consider in confidence. But, I have summarised 
their submissions briefly below (as the dispute resolution rules (DISP) permit me to do): 
The reductions in the base rate did not reduce Nationwides cost of funding to the 
same degree. Nationwides cost of funding is dependent on a range of factors. Whilst 
they do include base rate changes, they are also significantly influenced by the mix of 
funding raised, the markets perceived creditworthiness of Nationwide, and the 
supply of and demand for deposits across the industry.
The factors driving the difference between the base rate and Nationwides cost of 
funds will have included an increase in competition for customer deposits across the 
industry, and an increase in the relative cost of raising wholesale funding (which will 
have been influenced by factors such as the perception of an increased risk of 
defaults on funding issued).
During the period 2008-2010, Nationwides relative cost of funds rose by more than 
the change in margin difference between the BMR and the base rate. But they kept 
the cap in place, which meant that the interest rate applied to Mr Fs account still 
reduced significantly.
Im also mindful that the FCA have noted the adverse impact the financial crisis had on 
lenders costs during that period, and that theyve not seen that SVR variation terms have 
generally been relied on unfairly to cause widespread detriment to consumers (see for 
example the May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in 
financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 paragraphs 2.8 
to 2.10) 
Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly during this period, the costs to lenders of 
funding their business changed, as did their prudential requirements. These are made up of 
several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a substantial increase in 
risk to all lenders during that period, and that led to them having to mitigate that risk in different ways. So I think there are likely to be objectively justifiable reasons why Nationwide 
did not reduce the applicable rate at the same level as the reduction in Bank of England 
base rate. 
Its not uncommon for lenders to make changes to their variable rates when the base rate 
changes because of the effects those changes have on the market generally. But as Ive 
said, thats only one factor that impacts the funding costs and prudential stability of lenders 
in the market. The base rate reduced, and so did Nationwides BMR, but just not by the 
same proportion. Considering everything, Im persuaded the changes made during this time 
were reasonable, and Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide acted in an arbitrary 
or unfair way as alleged in Mr Fs complaint letter. 
So whilst the reductions during this period didnt mirror reductions to the base rate, I dont 
think the terms or general requirements of fairness obliged Nationwide to make the 
reductions in that particular way. And I dont think, taking into account all the circumstances 
in the round, that these changes resulted in unfair treatment for Mr F or that Nationwide 
acted in a way other than to protect its legitimate interests.
For the remainder of the term, until the complaint was made, the only changes Nationwide 
made to the BMR were made soon after changes were made to the base rate, and by the 
same amount. Nationwide have explained that during periods of economic calm, overall cost 
of funding approximately follows changes to the base rate. As opposed to what happens 
during periods of market volatility and general economic uncertainty, when an increasing 
divergence between base rate and funding costs occurs. Im also mindful that from 2014, the 
interest rate charged on Mr Fs mortgage acted in the way he believed it would  by tracking 
movements in the base rate.
Overall taking into account all of the changes made to the BMR, while the terms do provide 
Nationwide with discretion in regards to when or whether to vary the BMR charged on Mr Fs 
mortgage this is for legitimate reasons, and I dont think there is anything to suggest that 
Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mr F has overpaid interest as he 
claims.
Whilst its not ultimately of significance to the outcome of the complaint, I also note that the 
rate Mr F has paid is one of the lowest reversionary rates on the market and is clearly not an 
obvious outlier or manifestly excessive. Indeed  were it not for the 2% cap margin  the 
evidence in this cases suggests that Nationwide could reasonably have reduced the rate by 
less than it did, increasing the margin further, in the period after the financial crisis in 
2008/2009.  
The Investigator also commented on Mr Fs representatives response to the provisional 
assessment.  So far as it is relevant, he said:
Before I reached my view, I took into account all the information that had been provided by 
both parties. That included the report provided by [Mr Fs representative] that youve referred 
to. Whilst the report contains a helpful discussion about the operation of standard variable 
rates (SVRs) more generally, it did not contain any specific evidence or information that 
demonstrated the BMR Mr F has paid was set unfairly.
Nationwide provided us with information about how their specific costs of funds have varied 
over time, and the impact this had on their decision to set the BMR at the level they did. 
Having reviewed all the information provided, I was satisfied that Nationwides costs of funds 
did not reduce by the same proportion that the base rate reduced following the financial 
crisis. The base rate is only one factor that influences the costs to lenders of operating their 
mortgage business. As I said in my view, Nationwides relative cost of funds rose by more 
than the change in margin difference between the BMR and the base rate. But they kept the cap in place, which meant that the interest rate applied to Mr Fs account still reduced 
significantly.
Although it does not ultimately affect my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable and 
the reasons for those conclusions which I set out in my assessment letter, I note that one of 
the policy recommendations the report suggests is for there to be a limit on how high an 
SVR can go above the base rate (and gives the example of 2%). That is in fact the way the 
interest rate Mr F paid on his mortgage did operate  as it was kept within a 2% cap. From 
the point Mr F agreed to the mortgage and the interest rate, the margin between the interest 
rate he paid and the base rate only increased by 0.26%. Mr F remained on an extremely 
competitive rate when compared to others in the market, and for all the reasons I set out in 
my provisional assessment Im not persuaded hes been treated unfairly.
My findings
As Ive explained I have carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and, having done so, I have 
reached the same conclusions as the Investigator and for the same reasons, which I adopt.
In summary, like the Investigator, I am satisfied that a court would be unlikely to conclude 
that the variation terms are unfair as a matter of law.  But even if the terms were unfair that 
wouldnt necessarily mean that there has been unfairness.  I am required to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  that includes, but is not limited to, taking into 
account relevant law.  
And I also agree with the Investigator that the central question I need to consider when 
deciding whether Nationwide treated Mr F fairly and reasonably, is how Nationwide actually 
used the term, and whether that resulted in unfair treatment for Mr F. 
Considering all the evidence and for the reasons set out by the Investigator, Im not 
persuaded that Nationwide has varied the rate unfairly resulting in the unfair treatment of 
Mr F in the period since March 2014, or that Mr F has overpaid interest as he claims.   
Whilst the margin between the BMR and the base rate did increase slightly from the time 
Mr F agreed to the mortgage, Im satisfied that Nationwide increased that margin for 
objectively justifiable reasons and I am not persuaded that the changes made to the rate 
then or since resulted in unfair treatment for Mr F. And as the Investigator said, the evidence 
suggests that Nationwide could fairly have increased that margin further if it hadnt been for 
the 2% cap.
I appreciate Mr Fs representatives disagree with that view, and in doing so have relied on a 
report they provided to our service which they say is evidence that costs of funds decreased 
at the time when Nationwide increased the margin between their BMR and base rate. But 
whilst Ive carefully considered the contents of that report (which provides comment and 
opinion on SVRs generally in the industry, rather than Nationwides specifically), I have to 
weigh that up against the case specific information Ive received from both sides. And in this 
case, the contents of that report have not changed my mind about whether Nationwide 
treated Mr F fairly. 
Overall, having carefully considered all the information and evidence, I am not persuaded 
that Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr F, and it has not 
charged Mr F interest on his mortgage unfairly.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and I 
make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman