DRN-1577662
 
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank plc (Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in September 2003. The policy was 
taken many years after Mr H applied for his credit card. The PPI policy was sold to Mr H 
during a phone call.
Mr H says Barclaycard mis-sold the policy to him. He says through his representative, that 
Barclaycard did not give him the information it should have done. He also says that he had 
very good sick pay and so was unlikely to use the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I will explain why.
I think Barclaycard made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I 
have been able to see a call script from around the time of sale that would have been used 
by a representative from Barclaycard. I cant be sure if the script was followed during the call 
to Mr H, but I am unaware of any issues with its staff not following the script at the time this 
policy was sold. I can see in the script that the representative would have needed to seek 
consent from Mr H before proceeding to at the PPI policy. So I am persuaded after seeing 
this that Barclaycard would have offered the PPI policy to Mr H and he chose it.
In addition, I can see that the PPI policy was sold many years after he had set up his credit 
card account. So I think he would have known that having the PPI policy was a separate 
product and that he didn't need to have it in order to obtain credit.
I can't be sure if Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr H, but in any case it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He 
had 6 months full and 6 months half worth of sick pay but I think would have found the 
benefit offered by the policy useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment. I 
couldnt find any other reason why the policy would be unsuitable for Mr H such as a 
restrictive or limiting term.Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But even if he had been given clear information, I think he would have 
taken the policy anyway for the reasons I have already given. As i have already concluded. 
he was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively 
priced and affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.
In conclusion, I dont think Barclaycard has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told 
Mr H about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell him, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has basically paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case. 
 
My final decision
 The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank Plc has paid back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium and I don't think it needs to do anymore than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman