DRN-3335803
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs Y are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Mr and Mrs Y were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs Y decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In July 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ys behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs Y to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,500 to mislead Mr and Mrs Y, as 
when the interest was added the total cost was actually £16,617.60;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs Y or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs Y and found no reason to uphold the complaint. He accepted that 
Mr and Mrs Y had been told that the system would fund itself, but he said that the system 
was performing as well as had been predicted and that it was self-funding.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
contrary to what the adjudicator thought, the system was not performing in line with 
Ps estimate, and Mr and Mrs Y were not receiving the predicted returns;
a copy of the quotation had never been sent to Mr and Mrs Y for them to read in their 
own time, and they had never had the opportunity to read all of it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs Y paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs Y could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs Y and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ys recollection of the sale. In 
this case, there is no dispute that the quote said that the panels would be self-funding.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr and Mrs Y makes it clear that the 
overall cost of the system is £16,617.60, being the sum of the cash price and the charge for 
credit, and it clearly sets out the total amount payable and the breakdown of how that figure 
was reached.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr and Mrs Y more than the cash price as they 
had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
Self-funding
In this case it is clear that P told Mr and Mrs Y that the system would self-funding.
In the quote, theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs Y entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.82. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £92.32, but the difference  £1.50  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £90.82, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gave 
a positive figure in every year of the loan, meaning that the average benefits of the system 
would exceed the loan repayments from the start.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the performance over 20 years. 
This shows that by year 6 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs Y could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the performance of the system over 20 years. 
This shows that during year 10 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs Y could expect to receive 
would exceed the total amount payable under the loan agreement (£16,617.60).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs Y that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 6, and would pay for the loan by the end of year 10, as supported by 
the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that 
would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs Y. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,484 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ys FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 3,610 kWh a year (based on the reading in March 2019, the most recent one 
I have). This is slightly more than was estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
In response to the adjudicators opinion, the CMC offered the following calculation. It said 
that Mr and Mrs Y were actually only receiving a monthly benefit of £83.43, which over 15 
years would come to about £15,000, which was still somewhat less than the total amount 
payable under the loan. So not only was the system failing to pay for itself, but the table to 
which I have referred above stated that the system should have yielded £33,461.24 by the 
end of year 15.
I have therefore looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs Y havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs Y could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs Y entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs Y 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs Y to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
