DRN-4329154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy for damaged baggage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
There is cover for personal baggage which is damaged during the course of a trip. However, 
the policy terms say: 
Damage to personal baggage in transit must be reported to the carrier before you 
leave the baggage hall and a Property Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr and Mrs B didnt report the damage before they left the baggage hall or obtain a 
PIR. So, I think Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim based on the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs B have said about not reading the full details of 
the policy and that its not something most people would do, given the length of the 
document. It is Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility to familiarise themselves with the terms 
of their policy. 
In any event, lots of travel insurance policies include a term like this or have similar 
requirements to report loss or damage. So, I dont think this was a particularly 
unusual or onerous term. 
Mr and Mrs B have explained the details of their journey and that they dont know 
when the damage occurred. However, I still think it would have been reasonable for 
them to report the damage when they noticed it, particularly as they first noticed the 
damage when collecting their cases from the carousel.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about the policy covering accidental 
damage. Even I accepted their interpretation of the policy terms I dont think that 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case. If 
Mr and Mrs B had damaged the case themselves, I think its most likely theyd have 
noticed at the time. And, so it seems most likely to the damage occurred during 
transit. If the damage had been reported as required by the policy terms, there would 
have been an opportunity to investigate this with the relevant parties. So, I havent 
found this a persuasive argument in the circumstances of this particular case. 
Mr and Mrs B have highlighted other terms they feel are impossible or impractical to 
comply with. However, my role is to consider the circumstances of this case. So, this 
point hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs B have wider concerns about how the travel insurance industry 
operates then they may wish to refer those broader concerns to the regulator, The 
Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman