DRN-3630533
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have declined to pay a cheque into his bank 
account. 
What happened
Mr J used his HSBC credit card to purchase a train ticket. Due to problems with the train 
service on the day of travel, the train company agreed to refund the cost of the ticket to Mr J. 
The train company issued a cheque to Mr J for the refund, and used the name on Mr Js 
credit card as the name for the payee. The cheque was therefore made out to Mr J using his 
second name and last name only. 
Mr J used the HSBC mobile app to pay in the cheque, however, he later learned that the 
cheque wasnt accepted because the payee name did not match the name on the account 
the cheque was being paid into. 
HSBC explained they had done nothing wrong as their fraud prevention system would not 
allow for a partial name, and they suggested Mr J approach the train company for another 
cheque using his full name. Or that Mr J request a direct payment into his HSBC account. 
Mr J didnt accept HSBCs response and has since confirmed the train company is unable to 
make payments directly into an account. 
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded HSBC had not done anything wrong. 
Mr J disagreed as he didnt think common sense had been applied and said that his pervious 
cheques - using variations of his name - had been accepted by HSBC in branch, so he didnt 
think it was fair for a consumer to be punished for a banks systems. 
The complaint has therefore come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Js complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
Ive noted the comments Mr J has made about being pragmatic and that on previous 
occasions, when using a branch, he has not had the same issue when shortened versions of 
his name have been used on cheques. Im aware its possible that initials for first names can 
be used on cheques for example, but Im unable to explain/ comment on why the branch 
may have accepted previous cheques that did not completely match Mr Js account name. 
My role here is to consider whether HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J by 
declining his cheque in these circumstances. 
As Mr J may be aware there are obligations upon banks to ensure customers accounts are 
secure, amongst which would include ensuring payments to and from customers accounts 
are intended for the customers account or authorised to be paid from that account. I think it 
reasonable to say that checking account names would form part of any checks the business 
decides to make. 
I understand Mr Js HSBC account name is his full name, including first, second, third and 
last names. The payee on this cheque was made up of only Mr Js second and last names  
so missing two parts of Mr Js full name. So it is perhaps unsurprising this was not enough 
for HSBCs systems to reconcile that the cheque was intended for Mr Js account  I think 
its fair to say that another persons name could be made up of Mr Js second and last 
names alone. 
In view of whats happened Mr J has commented on how appropriate HSBCs systems are 
to be able to clear cheques. While Im mindful of Mr Js frustrations in this matter, our service 
is not the financial regulator, so our service is unable to interfere with the processes and 
systems that a business have put in place - thats something for the business to decide as 
part of their commercial decision making. 
I realise Mr J will be unhappy with my findings, and I can see that what has happened is not 
Mr Js fault - the train company issued the cheque and HSBCs systems have declined to 
accept it - so I do recognise how frustrating this must be for Mr J.  However, I have to 
consider if HSBC have acted unfairly here, and overall Ive not seen enough to say that they 
have. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Js complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman