DRN-1594937
 
The complaint
Mrs A says she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2002. 
AXA France IARDs (AXA) taken responsibility for the sale for the purposes of this complaint.
What happened
Mrs A took out a PPI policy which primarily helped to protect her monthly store card 
repayments in the event of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs A didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs A signed. It appears AXA 
made her aware that she had a choice about adding PPI and that she chose to take it 
by signing separately for it. I can understand if she doesnt remember that now, after 
all this time.
I dont consider that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs A. So, it didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information she 
needed to decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And I can see why as, despite being entitled to enhanced sick pay 
for a time and holding savings, the PPI benefits were considerable and could 
potentially have paid out until the account balance was paid off. They covered her for 
unemployment too. And the benefits meant Mrs A could have retained her savings or 
put them to another use, such as covering her other living costs, if she wasnt 
working. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs As circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
shed have been significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover. So, it would have been useful to her if something went wrong. And I cant 
see anything to indicate shed have found the regular premium unaffordable. 
 Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs As lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman