DRN-2004224
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the default Capital One (Europe) plc applied to his credit card 
account in July 2019. He wants the default removed and a payment plan set up as he says 
was agreed. 
What happened
Mr B fell behind with his payments on his account and contacted Capital One on 19 July 
2019 to make a payment and to set up a payment plan. He said he was given an option that 
would mean his account wasnt defaulted but it couldnt be set up on the date he wanted, 
and he was told to call back the following Monday or Tuesday to set up the plan. 
Mr B forgot to call back until later in the week and was told his account had been defaulted. 
He raised a complaint and says he was told that he had been given the wrong information on 
the call on 19 July and because of this the default would be looked at. Mr B then received an 
email to say his account had been defaulted. 
Capital One says that Mr Bs account was set up in February 2015 and that payments 
started to be missed from September 2018. In May 2019, a payment plan was agreed for the 
following four months but this arrangement was broken. A default notice was issued in June 
2019 explaining the account would be defaulted if payment wasnt received by 19 July. Mr B 
called on 19 July asking to set up a payment plan. It says it explained what would need to be 
paid to prevent the default and that given when Mr B wanted the payments to be taken, he 
would need to call back the following Monday or Tuesday to set this up. It said that because 
Mr B didnt call back as requested the account was defaulted. 
Our investigator didnt think that the default had been applied incorrectly or unfairly. He said 
Mr B was told to call back on the Monday or Tuesday and he didnt do this. He didnt find 
evidence to suggest that had this happened the account would have been defaulted anyway. 
Our investigator did think that Mr B was given mis-leading information on the call on 29 July. 
Because of this he recommended that Mr B be paid £75.
Capital One accepted our investigators view.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said he made contact two weeks before the 
default was applied intending to set up a payment plan, but Capital One couldnt do this at 
that time. He said he was contacted by the complaints department and told a mistake had 
been made and that even if he had made contact when requested the default would still 
have been applied. He didnt think that the £75 recommended was enough to compensate 
for the stress the issue had caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this situation has caused Mr B distress and appreciate that it is particularly 
upsetting as he was looking to apply for a mortgage. However, I can only require Capital 
One to remove the default on his account if I find that is was applied incorrectly or unfairly.
Mr B had missed payments on his account and had previously set up a payment plan in May 
2019 which he hadnt maintained. He had been sent notices to inform him of the status of his 
account and so I find it reasonable that Capital One took further action. It sent him a notice 
of default in June 2019 explaining that his account would be defaulted if a payment of a 
certain amount wasnt made by 19 July.
Mr B didnt make the required payment, but he did contact Capital One on 19 July. I have 
listened to this call and it is explained to him the amounts that would need to be paid at that 
time and through a payment plan to prevent a default being applied. Mr B said he needed 
the payment plan to take payments on 20th of the month. At this point he was told this was 
too far in advance to be set up and he would need to call back after three days, around 
Monday or Tuesday the following week. He checked that his account wont default if he did 
this and was told that it wouldnt as long as he called back on Monday or Tuesday. 
Given Mr Bs payment history and that he didnt call back to set up the payment plan as 
requested, I do not find that Capital One did anything wrong by applying a default to his 
account.
Mr B contacted Capital One on 25 July by which point the default had been applied. He 
raised a complaint about this. On a call on 29 July he was told that he had been given the 
wrong information on the call on 19 July and the default would be reviewed. I understand 
how upsetting it must have been for Mr B to be given the impression the default may be 
removed. However, as this took place after the application of the default, I do not find this 
means the default should be removed. Instead, I agree with our investigator that Mr B should 
be compensated for the upset he was caused.
Our investigator recommended that Capital One pay Mr B £75 compensation and it agreed. 
Given the upset that was caused but also noting that the default had been applied correctly 
and the issue wasnt ongoing for an extended period, I find this a reasonable amount
Putting things right
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr B £75 compensation as it has agreed for the upset it 
caused him by providing incorrect information after the default had been applied. I do not 
require Capital One (Europe) plc to remove the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and Capital One (Europe) plc should 
carry out the actions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman