DRN-4152971
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined 
his claim.
What happened
Mr G had a group income protection insurance policy through his employer. This would pay 
a benefit if he was unable to work due to illness or injury after a deferred (waiting) period of 
26 weeks. 
Mr G became absent from work in March 2022 and made a claim. He left his employment in 
October 2022. 
Aviva declined the claim as it said Mr Gs absence was due to work related matters and 
these were specifically excluded. 
Mr G complained as he didnt think Aviva had fairly declined the claim. He said he was 
suffering from a mental health illness and his claim should be paid. 
Aviva maintained its decline and so Mr G referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the 
claim. 
Mr G disagreed and in summary, has said he would like to discuss his complaint with me to 
present his case verbally.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
But firstly, Ill deal with Mr Gs request to discuss his complaint with me directly. I have to 
remain independent and impartial. Mr G says he would like to present his case verbally. So I 
asked him to call in and speak to the investigator or alternatively, call the helpline and 
explain his position which I would then listen to the recording of. But Mr G hasnt done this.
Having considered the full file, I am satisfied I have enough information available to reach a 
decision. This complaint turns on the medical evidence provided to Aviva and the reasons 
for Mr Gs absence, as supported through that evidence. The medical evidence is a 
contemporaneous record of the reasons for Mr Gs absence and so I have placed significant 
weight on the notes from the time of Mr Gs absence when reaching my conclusions.  
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define incapacity as follows:
The members inability to perform on a full and part time basis the duties of their job 
role as a result of their illness or injury.
The policy also says:
Absence caused by workplace matters, such as a relationship breakdown, 
workplace demands or failure to make reasonable adjustments are not covered.
This means Mr G has to demonstrate that he is incapacitated for 26 weeks and beyond due 
to illness or injury in order to be eligible for benefit. But any absences due to work stress are 
excluded.
So to decide whether Aviva acted fairly, I have to consider the medical evidence available to 
Aviva at the time. Ive summarised what I consider to be the relevant medical evidence from 
the deferred period.
The key medical evidence 
March 2022  The GP notes record Mr G was stressed and work stress had got to him again 
due to increased pressure at work. His boss was supportive but he was considering other 
less stressful options for the future. 
April 2022  GP notes record Mr G was suffering from ongoing stress in the background with 
work and life.
May 2022  GP notes record Mr G was currently feeling low as he had Covid and he was 
concerned about having to isolate. Before that, he was feeling a lot better. 
June 2022  GP note records that Mr G may want to formulate a plan whilst waiting for a 
referral and then notes this to be change of job etc. Mr G felt he could not return to the job 
he was in and that management had abandoned him.
July 2022  occupational health report following a telephone consultation with Mr G. This 
summarised that previously, Mr G had recurrent episodes of depression in 2020 and 2021. 
Triggers for his most recent episode of health were also due to his depressive illness, 
ongoing isolation, working from home, challenges in his personal life, being diagnosed with 
an illness and pressures at work. Mr G was particularly busy prior to his sickness absence 
with additional challenges. The specialist felt Mr G was unfit for work. When he was ready to 
work, Mr G would need to have open discussions about work pressures and measures to 
alleviate these.
Other medical evidence 
Mr G says his previous medical history should be taken into account and it should be read 
as a whole. Ive carefully considered all the available medical evidence including the GP 
notes, occupational health records and a recent letter dated April 2023 from a mental health 
specialist. There is reference to stress, low mood, stress at work and depression. Its clear 
that Mr G was suffering from illness and was absent from work for shorter periods between 
2020 and 2022. 
However, the relevant period for Mr Gs claim is the deferred period from March 2022. On the whole, the medical evidence from 2022 shows that Mr G didnt feel that he could go back 
to work. Although he says his mental health was affected due to a number of personal and 
work reasons, I think the GP notes demonstrate that Mr Gs absence in March 2022 was 
triggered by work related stress which isnt covered by the policy. So I dont think Aviva 
unfairly declined the claim on the basis that Mr Gs absence was caused by work related 
matters, which are excluded. 
Mr G also said Aviva had failed to provide policy documents to him and said it should have 
sought specialist medical evidence to better understand his mental health illness and his 
reasons for absence. 
Avivas policyholder is Mr Gs employer so he would need to request the policy information 
from his employer. This isnt something I can hold Aviva responsible for. 
In relation to the medical evidence, the onus is on Mr G to prove his claim and provide 
specialist medical evidence if he chooses to. Aviva reasonably requested Mr Gs medical 
records and reviewed the available evidence. Many of the GP notes during the deferred 
period show that Mr G was absent due to workplace stress. But Mr G needs to show that he 
was unable to work due to illness or injury for the full 26 weeks before he becomes eligible 
for benefit. Im not persuaded the medical evidence shows that Mr G was absent solely due 
to illness for the duration of the deferred period. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I cant fairly ask Aviva to accept his claim based on the 
available medical evidence which suggests that Mr Gs absence during the deferred period 
was largely caused by stress at work. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman