DRN-3648082
The complaint
Ms I complain that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) didnt advise her that changing 
her direct debit payment date would result in two payments in the same month. She believes 
Moneybarns actions led to her account being in arrears and caused her significant stress.  
She doesnt feel the £50 compensation Moneybarn paid is sufficient.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
Moneybarn changed Ms Is payment date at her request but didnt explain that, in 
doing so, Ms I  would make two payments in October 2021. Having looked at Ms Is 
payment history the payments made in October were correct  one was to cover the 
September payment and one to cover the October payment. Moneybarn did as Ms I 
instructed. 
Ms I doesnt feel the £50 Moneybarn credited to her account is sufficient as it upheld 
her complaint. She has made a number of points which I have carefully considered.
I dont accept Ms Is view that Moneybarn withheld key information from her. That 
implies that Moneybarn deliberately didnt advise of the impact of the change of 
payment dates . I have no evidence of this, I  think it more likely the adviser didnt 
think to tell her.
I accept Ms I may not have changed her payment date had she realised the 
implication of doing so. But  she would still have been liable for her monthly 
payments. Moneybarns actions havent caused any additional payments to be made 
nor has it caused her account to go into arrears .From what I have seen , after the 
initial issue in October 2021, Ms I then  didnt make a payment in December 2021 
leading to two payments being due in January 2022 but Ms I only made one 
payment. So, I see no reason for Moneybarn to pay Ms I the £254.12 extra payment 
she believes they created. 
I believe Moneybarns suggestion of surrendering Ms Is car was a standard option 
put to her  to help her if she was struggling to meet her payments. When cars are 
returned or surrendered there may be charges for damage outside of normal wear 
and tear. I dont believe there was anything amiss in Moneybarns advice.
Ms I believes Moneybarn hasnt changed her credit file as it agreed to do so in its 
final response letter. We have checked with Moneybarn who have confirmed that it 
has changed her credit file to a U for the months of October and November 2021. 
And it has explained that a U marker is a neutral marker. Having read the final 
response letter I believe Moneybarn has done what it offered to do. And I have noted 
the two U markers on the credit file information Ms I sent to us .
Moneybarn has already credited Ms I with £50 compensation  in recognition of not 
explaining the impact of changing her payment date. Having looked at all the 
information provided I think this was a reasonable response. And I dont feel I have 
seen any information that leads me to feel Moneybarn should pay additional 
compensation as Ms I would like.
Ms I has made some points about the end of her agreement and a payment holiday 
being disregarded. But  these events occurred after Ms I put her complaint to us . So, 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider these issues  as Moneybarn hasnt had 
an opportunity to look into them. If there are new issues Ms I needs, in the first 
instance, to put these to Moneybarn.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman