DRN-2627044
The complaint
 Mr B complaints and Appointed Representative (AR) of The Tavistock Partnership Limited 
(TTPL) gave him unsuitable advice to switch his personal pension plan (PPP) to a self-
invested pension plan (SIPP) and make investments that were high risk and with high 
charges.
 
What happened
 Mr B is represented in his complaint by a third party but for ease I will refer to Mr B 
throughout my decision.
In 2016, Mr B spoke with Pension Wise about his existing pension provision. His details 
were passed to an AR of TTPL to explore his options.
A fact find was carried out on 15 June 2016 which established:
Mr B was 55 years old at the time and married
He intended to retire at age 60
He was employed
He had a mortgage
He had some savings and disposable income each month
Mr B said his objective was to take Tax Free Cash (TFC) to carry out home improvements 
whilst leaving the remainder invested. He intended to work a further five years and then sell 
his property, downsize and release his equity, which he felt would be sufficient provision in 
retirement. He held this PPP, valued at around £52,000 and no other pension provisions 
except for his state pension provision.
Following the fact find, Mr Bs attitude towards risk (ATR) was recorded as balanced, a risk 
rating of 4 on a scale of 1 to 7. The AR described this attitude towards investing as 
someone who thinks of risk as uncertainty and is prepared to take a small to medium 
degree of risk with financial decisions.
In the suitability report, dated 15 June 2016, the AR recommended Mr B transfer his PPP to 
a SIPP and invest in Organic Investment Management Limited (Organic) Balanced Portfolio. 
The report commented:
The style agreed was a discretionary managed solution you liked that
this would involve using a manager able to make quick decisions on your behalf.
And
When faced with a major financial decision they are usually more concerned about the 
possible losses while others are usually more concerned about the possible gains. They 
would be slightly more likely to choose more job security with a small pay increase rather 
than less job security with a big pay increase.
Further commentary, recorded separately said:
...Spoke about boutique, likes idea of quick decisions and
constraints on assets invested into, likes the idea of me having contact with investment
manager.
The AR said it spoke with Organic regularly and had carried out due diligence which 
exceeded expectations.
The charging structure for the recommendations showed an initial advice fee of 3% of the 
switch value. An ongoing annual advice fee of 0.65%, an annual management charge (AMC) 
of 0.75% and Organics AMC of 0.9%.
On 3 November 2016, the transfer from the PPP was received into the SIPP. The TFC was 
drawn and the remaining funds invested into the recommended portfolio. These being open 
ended investment companies (OEICS) with 33% in the Organic Bond Fund and around 17% 
in the Long/Short Alpha fund. The remaining investments being mostly exchange traded 
funds (ETFs).
In November 2018, the funds were suspended. In December 2018, the FCA issued a 
supervisory notice and Organic went into administration. The process is still ongoing. Liquid 
assets have been transferred to another firms management, but the OEICs are still
suspended and many of their assets remain illiquid. Mr B chose to be disinvested from the 
Organic portfolio into cash in December 2018.
Mr B complained to TTPL via his third-party representatives.
On 6 November 2019, TTPL issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
so he brought it to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. In his view, whilst he found the SIPP 
recommendation itself to be a suitable investment vehicle to meet Mr Bs objectives, he 
didnt feel the recommended Organic investment to be suitable. In his view, the risk 
associated with the investments were higher than those of Mr Bs assessed ATR. The 
charges he found to be understated and misleading and higher than those of his existing 
PPP.  He found the recommended investments to be unsuitable and so he asked TTPL to 
put things right by putting Mr B, as close as possible, back in the position he would have 
been if he had been given suitable advice.
Mr B accepted the investigators findings but TTPL did not. It said:
The balance portfolio presented to TTPL by Organic was 37.10% Corporate Bonds 
and 12.00% Government Bonds and 29.91% in equities. This it says matched Mr Bs 
ATR at the time.
The flexible mandate allowed the DFM to change the underlying investments, which 
it appears it did, TTPL feels was misled by Organic and so cannot be held 
responsible
It accepts the charges were higher than that of Mr Bs existing portfolio but doesnt 
accept the adviser misled Mr B. It says the flexible mandate allowed the fund 
manager to move investments. It accepts it moved large proportions into its own 
funds that carried additional charges but says it cant be held responsible for this as it would be impossible for an adviser to know where a fund was being invested at any 
given time.
It says after the FCA issued the supervisory notice, directors of Organic misled the 
directors of the AR regarding the seriousness of the FCAs concerns in their 
management of the portfolios and in particular the concerns with the Defensive 
portfolio. Again, it feels it is unfair to hold TTPL responsible for this.
It says the FCA told Organic to make changes in 2017 but it carried on trading. 
Organic didnt carry out the FCA direction and so by the time everyone discovered 
the situation it was too late. 
It makes specific reference to the period of time it says it held responsibility for this 
AR. That being between 16 December 2015 and 26 October 2017 when TPPL was 
sold to another organization. It says it is not liable for any losses sustained outside of 
this period.
TTPL asks for an ombudsman review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by TTPL. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
There are a number of applicable rules, regulations and requirements which apply to a 
business when giving advice.  The following isnt a comprehensive list, but it provides a 
useful context for my assessment of TTPLs actions.
COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client'. And in order to ensure this was the case, and in line with 
the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the advisor needed to gather the necessary information 
for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Bs objectives. It also needed to ensure that Mr B 
had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks he was taking. 
Broadly speaking, that section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to 
undertake a fact find process. Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a 
business to explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is 
suitable for the client" - in other words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability report 
outlining its advice and the reasons for it.
In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching. It highlighted four key 
issues it thought should be focussed on  Charges (has the consumer been switched to a 
pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without 
good reason?); Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?); Risk  (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded ATR and personal circumstances?); Ongoing fund management (has the 
consumer switched into a pension with a need for ongoing investment reviews, but this was 
not explained, offered or put in place?) 
In 2013 and 2014, the regulators pensions related industry alert to firms included the 
following: 
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages or 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. Where a 
financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or switch from 
a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability 
of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the 
underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Was the recommendation to switch from Mr Bs PPP to a SIPP suitable?
The suitability report makes clear the aims and objectives Mr B was seeking to achieve. 
These included a review of Mr Bs existing PPP as he wanted the means to be able to 
flexibly access his pension to allow him to complete renovations to his home. He also 
wanted a strategy that would give him the freedom to leave the remaining monies invested 
for growth to use when he intended to retire at age 60.
The report went onto to say the adviser would provide an Ongoing servicing to ensure funds 
remain invested appropriately and remain within the level of risk you are comfortable in 
taking.
The advisors responsibility here then, is to review Mr Bs existing pension provision to 
establish if it meets his objectives and if not to recommend a suitable pension plan with an 
appropriate investment strategy that would and to provide ongoing reviews to ensure it 
remained suitable.
I can see from the information available that Mr Bs existing pension plan would only allow 
him to take his benefits as an annuity and so wasnt suitable to meet his objectives as 
discussed with the adviser. By transferring his benefits to a SIPP Mr B was able to meet his 
immediate objective of taking a tax-free cash lump sum to complete the renovations on his 
home and allow the rest of his fund to remain invested until such time as he wanted to take 
his benefits. Mr B stated he intended to do this around the age of 60, which was in around 5 
years time. In my view, I agree a SIPP would be a suitable investment vehicle to meet Mr 
Bs objectives.
As I have already highlighted the regulator also required the adviser was then responsible 
for recommending an appropriate investment strategy to meet Mr Bs objectives with regular 
ongoing reviews. If the underlying investment strategy is not suitable then the overall advice 
is not suitable.
So, was the recommendation to invest in Organic suitable?In short, having reviewed the available evidence, Im not in agreement this portfolio was 
suitable for Mr B.
Mr B was assessed as a balanced investor risk investor, but he also had very little 
investment experience or previous knowledge of investments and so he reliant on the advice 
he was given. Mr B was assessed as an investor with a risk score of four, TTPL records an 
investor with the attitude to risk such as that of Mr B typically:
. think of "risk" as "uncertainty" and are prepared to take a small to medium degree of risk 
with their financial decisions. They have a reasonable amount of confidence in their ability to 
make good financial decisions and usually feel somewhat optimistic about their major 
financial decisions after they make them.
And
. when faced with a major financial decision they are usually more concerned about the 
possible losses while others are usually more concerned about the possible gains. They 
would be slightly more likely to choose more job security with a small pay increase rather 
than less job security with a big pay increase.
And
. when things go wrong financially, they are as likely to adapt somewhat uneasily as 
somewhat easily.
So, Im not sure how the AR found it suitable to recommend an investment portfolio that had 
only been authorised since 2016. It was relatively new, with a limited track record and 
untested. Organics factsheet also shows the portfolio to be suitable for investors with a risk 
score of five or above. Mr B was assessed with a score of four and so in my view this wasnt 
a suitable proposition.
I have also looked carefully at the cost comparisons. Im in agreement with the investigator 
that the costs were not properly addressed by the adviser. The example, of the Organic 
Bond fund at the end of 2016 had an ongoing charge of 2.67% and the Organic Long / Short 
Alpha fund had an ongoing charge of 3.86%. clearly show these funds accounted for around 
half of the portfolio. So just this element alone wouldve meant the ongoing charges were 
much greater than in the comparison given by the adviser. At the very least this is 
misleading and doesnt represent the true picture to Mr B. TTPL has accepted the ongoing 
costs were higher but goes onto say this is because the flexible mandate gave the fund 
manager the ability to change the funds and the costs and it could be expected to know. Im 
afraid I dont accept this. TTPL is fully aware the costs of any investment must be clear and 
transparent, I dont find it acceptable to say it couldnt be expected to know what the costs 
would be in the future, whilst simultaneously charging for ongoing reviews to ensure the 
funds remained suitable.
I went on to think about the statement The style agreed was a discretionary managed 
solution you liked that this would involve using a manager able to make quick decisions on 
your behalf. Im not persuaded at all that an investor with very limited previous experience 
would request or even be aware of such an approach. This seems to be there to support a 
notably flexible mandate.
Ive read and considered TTPLs submissions regarding its protestations that it was misled 
by Organic and whilst Im not reaching a determination on this matter it seems to me TTPL 
are attempting to have it both ways. What I mean by that is that it has recommended to its 
client that he invest in a portfolio where there is flexible mandate to make quick decisions on his behalf and then suggests not only was the adviser unaware of what these where or 
could be and so it has no responsibility for them. But it accepted fees for ongoing reviews for 
Mr B to ensure it was and remained a suitable investment for the level of risk Mr B was 
prepared to take. I dont think TTPL can have it both ways here. Because if it didnt know 
what was actually the case, how could the fund suitable for a balanced investor within limited 
experience such as Mr B? 
The regulators comments highlights that a significant proportion of the overall funds under 
management were in unrated or other potentially high-risk investments. The adviser should 
have looked carefully at the underlying investments within the models provided and then 
considered if that met the risk Mr B was prepared to take, and I cant see that has happened 
here.
Im not in a position to comment about what Organic did or didnt tell the directors of the AR 
or whether the firm complied with the supervisory notice issued as that is a matter for the 
regulator. I have reached the view ,for all of the reasons I have given, that the recommended 
Organic portfolio was not a suitable underlying investment  for Mr B in the first place. 
TTPL has also asked me to consider its liability in this matter as it points out the advisor was 
an appointed representative of TTPL between 16 December 2015 and 26 October 2017. It 
argues its responsibility only pertains to any actions taken between these dates and any 
losses incurred after October 2017 is not its responsibility as the business was sold to 
another organisation.
I have considered this submission but Im of the view the ARs (and therefore TTPLs) 
culpability in this matter arises from the unsuitable recommendation at the outset, in 2016, 
when it as an AR for TTPL. It does not matter that the AR arrangement with TTPL 
subsequently ended in 2017. It follows that I find TTPL responsible for the unsuitable advice 
given to Mr B and I will set out below how it should put matters right.
 Putting things right
 Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must TTPL do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, TTPL must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
You should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, you should pay into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. Your payment should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. You shouldnt pay the compensation into the pensionplan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If you are unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, you should pay that
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age,
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the
compensation.
In addition, you should pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If you consider that youre required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, you should tell Mr B how
much youve taken off. You should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment
 
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
Interest
Curtis Banks 
SIPPStill exists FTSE UK 
Private
Investors 
Income
Total Return
IndexDate of 
investmentDate of 
settlementn/a
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. You should take ownership of the illiquid investment 
by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be 
deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If you are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil
for the purpose of calculation. You may wish to require that Mr B provides an
undertaking to pay you any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension plan. You will need to meet any costs in drawing up theundertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment 
should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if you 
total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically. If 
Mr B is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid (which may be possible 
if illiquid investments remain), TTPL should pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five 
years worth of the fees (based on the most recent years fees) that will be payable on the 
SIPP. 
This is because Mr B would not be in the SIPP but for TTPLs unsuitable advice. So, it would 
not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it open. Five years would allow sufficient time 
for any issues with illiquid investments to be sorted out.
Why is this remedy suitable?
 Mr B appears to have been prepared to take some risk in order to achieve capital growth.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
 I consider that Mr Bs profile is broadly reflected in this benchmark and that compensation 
based upon it would reasonably provide the sort of return he could have obtained, but for the 
unsuitable advice he received, from suitable investments.
compensation limit 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. 
Payment of such balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the 
respondent firm and it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for such balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent 
legal advice in this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I order The Tavistock Partnership Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as set out 
above and to provide him with a calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman