DRN-3337568
The complaint
Mrs T complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund the money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here. But briefly, Mrs T was contacted by a company (B) purporting to offer an opportunity to 
invest/trade in cryptocurrency. She mostly sent funds from her TSB account to a Coinbase 
account B directed her to set up, then on to B directly. When she couldnt withdraw any 
funds, she realised it might be a scam. She raised this with TSB, but it wouldnt refund her. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case in February 2022, explaining I wasnt minded to 
uphold it for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mrs T was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that, for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017, she authorised the 
payments. So the starting position is that shes liable for them.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before making the payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold TSB liable.
The scam started with a debit card payment of £250 in January 2019. I cant see 
TSB had any reason to suspect Mrs T was at risk from fraud at this point. Im not 
aware it was on notice that the merchant might not be genuine, and the payment 
didnt appear unusual.
The remainder of the disputed payments  £3,750 in late January 2019; £4,300 in 
April 2019; and £6,210 in May 2019  were made via faster payments to a 
Coinbase account Mrs T held. I understand she was prompted to set this up by 
the scammers, and she granted them access to it.
Starting with the earliest Coinbase payment, Im conscious there were other, 
genuine transactions Mrs T made in the months prior of a similar size. Bearing 
that in mind, and considering what level of bank intervention its reasonable to 
expect given the value and volume of transactions they process, Im not 
persuaded this ought to have flagged as suspicious.
Although the second Coinbase payment was a bit higher, it still wasnt of a level 
which I think ought to have prompted further intervention. Mrs Ts account history, 
including the Coinbase payment several months prior, would have fed into TSBs 
judgment of what appeared to be typical account activity. I dont think the 
payment was so unusual as to warrant further checks.
For similar reasons, Im also not persuaded its fair to expect TSB to have 
intervened at the point of the final Coinbase payment. Although this was the 
highest in value, again, the account history meant this didnt appear significantly 
out of character and therefore indicative of fraud. Shed made several similar size 
payments to Coinbase, over several months, without raising any concerns.
Although Mrs T transferred money in from her savings before making these 
payments, thats not uncommon when consumers make genuine payments of 
this size. Im conscious that none of these payments cleared her account 
balance. And they were spread out  which, again, meant the Coinbase account 
appeared to be a trusted payee. Overall, Im not persuaded TSB ought to have 
intervened with these payments, which means I cant fairly hold it liable for the 
loss stemming from them
Ive also considered whether TSB missed an opportunity to help recover Mrs Ts 
loss. For the Coinbase transfers, I can see it attempted recovery but the funds 
werent returned. In any event, the funds went directly to Mrs Ts own account. I 
dont think TSB could reasonably have done more to recover these. 
However, as the first payment was made via debit card, and  so far as Im aware 
 went directly to the scammer, Ive considered whether there were grounds for a 
chargeback claim. This is a scheme whereby the card-scheme provider, in this 
case VISA, can decide how to resolve card payment disputes between 
merchants and customers. Its a voluntary scheme, but wed consider it good 
practice for a bank to put a claim forward if it was likely to succeed.
In Mrs Ts case, for such a claim to have succeeded, she would have needed 
evidence that:
oshe attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant and, if that was 
unsuccessful, she cancelled the service;
oher investment account had funds to withdraw on the date she requested 
the withdrawal; and 
oshe requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the 
investment account.
Mrs T would also have needed to submit her claim within 120 days of when she 
was expecting to receive the service. Based on TSBs notes, it seems she 
requested the withdrawal in August 2019  but didnt raise her dispute until early 
2020. So its unclear there was an opportunity to submit a claim in time. Nor have 
I seen anything to suggest she would have been able to provide the evidence 
needed to support her claim. So Im not persuaded TSB have caused her a loss 
by not putting one forward.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs T. But Ive not found that TSB missed an
opportunity to successfully prevent, or recover, her loss. So I cant hold it liable for this.
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence. Both sides have now 
responded. TSB didnt have anything new to add. Mrs T said (in summary):
Taking the view that she authorised the payment is reductive of various aspects 
regarding TSBs duty of care, which she feels have been marginalised. Such as the 
expectations set out in the BSI Code.
Accepting that the first payment (for £250) wouldnt have triggered isnt an excuse 
not to scrutinise the subsequent disputed payments.
If TSB had done appropriate due diligence, it could have stopped the scam. 
Whereas, due to the nature of the scam, she was unaware of what was going on.
The disputed transactions were out of character as they were the largest for that period, paid to a crypto exchanger. So they should have been identified as 
suspicious. 
She spoke to TSB when realising the fraud and was advised to liaise with the 
companies she paid first, which she spent several months trying to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. As Ive already covered most of the 
reasons for this in my provisional decision above, Ill focus on addressing the responses to 
this.
Most points Mrs T has raised relate to why she thinks TSB ought to have identified some of 
these payments as suspicious. My provisional decision explained that, when considering the 
banks obligations, Id taken into account relevant rules, codes and best practice. The BSI 
Code falls within this, and fed into my consideration of whether, in the circumstances, TSB 
ought to have identified any payments as suspicious and intervened.
Whilst the payments were the largest made during the direct period of the scam, the history 
of the account affected what TSB viewed as suspicious. As set out in my provisional 
decision, there were other large, similar size payments in the months leading up to the scam 
 which made the disputed payments seem more in keeping with the general account 
activity. 
I agree the earlier payment(s) dont automatically mean the later payments should have 
avoided the usual level of scrutiny. But they will have fed into TSBs assessment of what was 
suspicious in the context of how the account was being used. Mrs T paid the same, 
legitimate crypto merchant, spread out over several months, before raising any concerns. 
At the point of each payment, I wouldnt reasonably have expected TSB to have seen them, 
in the context of how the account was being used, as suspicious. Whilst the level of 
payments increased, this wasnt by such a significant amount that I would have expected 
TSB to realise something untoward was happening. Im satisfied it was fair for TSB to act on 
Mrs Ts authorised payment instructions without performing further checks.
Mrs T says TSB prompted her to contact the merchants directly when she first contacted it 
about the scam. I consider that fair. Its a requirement of the chargeback scheme that the 
consumer first tries to resolve the matter with the merchant directly. Ultimately, her response 
hasnt shown me that she would have been able to provide the level of evidence needed to 
raise a successful chargeback claim in time.
Overall, taking into account the further evidence provided, Im still not persuaded TSB made 
errors which contributed to Mrs Ts loss  or which prevented her from successfully 
recovering this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rachel LoughlinOmbudsman