DRN-3284730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt settled a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 2 August 2019. The 
policy period was between 29 August 2019 and 28 August 2020. The insurer was Great 
Lakes.
Mr and Mrs S say they amended the policy on 2 March 2020 to include cover for children, 
after booking a family trip abroad between 14 and 21 August 2020. 
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office FCO) advised against all but essential 
international travel. On 4 July 2020, Mr and Mrs S holiday destination was placed on a 
travel corridor list, which meant that it was exempt from the FCDO advice.
However, the travel corridor closed on 27 July 2020. This meant that the FCDO was no 
longer advising that travel to Mr and Mrs S holiday destination was exempt from the advice 
against all but essential international travel. As a result, Mr and Mrs S would need to have 
isolated on their return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have been able to isolate on their return and cancelled their 
holiday. They also note that travelling against FCDO advice wouldve invalidated their cover. 
As Mr and Mrs S were unable to get a refund from the airline as the flights werent cancelled, 
they made a claim to Great Lakes. They say their claim should be covered as the 
cancellation section covers compulsory quarantine.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that there was no insured event under the policy 
terms. Additionally, it said that the cancellation section excluded cover due to prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country. Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs S 
brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Firstly, he noted that the policy 
didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice, whilst travel against that advice 
wasnt covered either. He said that there may be some limited situations where, if he didnt 
think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy 
exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, he might 
think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. But he didnt think that was the case here.
This was because our investigator also noted that the cancellation section excluded cover 
for prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. Overall, he thought Great Lakes 
had acted fairly and reasonably in relying on this exclusion in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs S claim. So, he didnt think Great Lakes did anything wrong when it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they say that they should 
be covered under compulsory quarantine, which should take priority over the above 
exclusion.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Firstly, I agree with what our investigator said about situations where the policy doesnt cover 
cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice, but travel against that advice isnt covered 
either. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask the insurer to accept Mr 
and Mrs S claim because of another exclusion on the policy.
I know Mr and Mrs S say their claim should be covered as cancellation due to Your 
compulsory quarantine is covered. But I dont think they were in a compulsory quarantine 
when they cancelled the trip. And in any event, the cancellation section has an exclusion for 
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked Trip due to government action.
When Mr and Mrs S cancelled the trip, the FCDO was no longer advising that their 
destination was exempt from its advice against all but essential international travel. This 
meant that Mr and Mrs S wouldve needed to quarantine on their return to the UK, and I think 
this was the main reason why they cancelled the holiday. As the requirement to quarantine 
was a regulation imposed by the UK government, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly and 
reasonably in relying on it when declining Mr and Mrs S claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which 
I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman