DRN-3632607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to 
close their business due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They operate a guest 
house and wedding venue.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 Mr and 
Mrs S closed their business from 20 March 2020. 
They claimed on the policy. RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered 
business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease at the premises, Mr and Mrs S hadnt 
shown that Covid-19 was manifest at the premises before Government restrictions came into 
force. 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. They said Mr S and their son had 
suffered from Covid-19 before 20 March 2020 but there was no testing at that time for 
people who werent in the NHS. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. She said there was not enough evidence that Mr and Mrs S had closed their business 
due to a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. 
Mr and Mrs S asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ss business. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr and Mrs Ss claim.
The most relevant part of Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this section to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the 
business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 
manifesting itself at their premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially 
rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its more likely than not that theyve suffered a 
loss their policy covers. A mere suspicion that a policyholder might have a valid claim is not 
enough in these circumstances.
Some policies refer to the occurrence of a disease, whereas others  like Mr Ss policy  
required there to have been a manifestation. An occurrence of a disease can take place 
without the individual who has the disease displaying symptoms. But for a disease to have 
manifested, it is likely the individual will need to have displayed symptoms or given some 
other positive sign  potentially a positive test result  at the time they were at the premises. 
It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for a pre-symptomatic individual to 
have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
The only evidence Mr and Mrs S were able to provide to support the fact that Covid-19 had 
manifested on the premises before they closed the business due to government restrictions 
is Mrs Ss handwritten diary entry from around the time her husband was ill. This isnt 
something which could be validated.
Although Mr S and their son had symptoms of Covid-19, I have to bear in mind that most 
people who were ill at that time at that time didnt have that virus. And they hadnt been 
tested at that point. I dont think I can fairly say that this makes it most likely there was a 
case manifesting itself at Mr and Mrs Ss premises before it closed. 
So, I dont consider the requirements of the relevant part of the policy to have been met. I 
appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs S. But, having considered the 
matter carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman