DRN-4282319
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIL) declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for a drainage problem.
Reference to AIL includes its agents and representatives.
Mr G has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Mr G got in touch with AIL to make a claim for damage to a culvert drain at his 
property. AIL appointed a drainage company. Mr G said it missed a number of 
appointments, sent an engineer unable to survey the culvert  and then sent that 
same engineer again, still unable to survey the culvert.
Mr G arranged and paid for the culvert to be surveyed. In summary, it said the drain 
was blocked and broken in two places due to root ingress. And it was cracked and 
broken in a third place due to impact. Mr G says that likely happened during a recent 
fence installation.
AIL declined the claim. It said the root ingress happened over a period of time and 
therefore didnt meet the relevant policy definition. It didnt comment on the other 
damage.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said the cause of the 
tree root damage may have been gradual as the roots grew, but the damage they 
caused was sudden, so AIL should accept the claim for that damage. He noted AIL 
hadnt commented on the fence damage. He also said it should pay £200 
compensation for shortfalls in its service.
AIL asked to revisit the property to consider the damage said to have been caused 
by the fence further. Our investigator maintained AIL should accept the claim for tree 
root damage and pay compensation. And he said it would be reasonable for AIL to 
consider the damage said to have been caused by the fence further.
Mr G agreed with that. AIL didnt respond. So the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the position reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy covers accidental damage to underground pipes, where accidental 
damage is defined in the policy to mean: sudden, unexpected and physical damage 
which happens at a specific time, was not deliberate and was caused by something 
external and identifiable.
In summary, AIL doesnt consider the tree root damage was caused in this way, so it 
can be declined. And its offered to consider the other damage. It also notes that 
damage caused by wear and tear or gradual deterioration isnt covered.
AILs drainage company visited. It didnt survey the culvert but said the cause of 
damage was believed to be root ingress caused over time with gradual 
deterioration. It gave no further explanation for its opinion.
Mr Gs survey did include the culvert. The contractor said the drain was blocked and 
broken in two places due to the tree roots. Im satisfied this cause of damage likely 
meets the policy definition of accidental damage. Whilst the roots naturally grow 
gradually, it doesnt necessarily follow that the damage they cause is gradual. 
Blockages and breakages usually happen suddenly. And a blockage amounts to 
damage because it prevents the drain from functioning at it should do. AILs drainage 
company hasnt provided any evidence or persuasive commentary to explain why the 
blockages and breakages werent sudden  or how they were the result of gradual 
deterioration. So its not clear how it arrived at that conclusion.
As a result, Im satisfied the damage caused by the tree roots, including the 
blockages, is covered by the policy. So AIL should accept that part of the claim, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr Gs survey said a different area of the drain was cracked and broken due to 
impact. He says thats likely when a fence was installed. I cant rule that out, but the 
drainage contractor didnt mention it, so Im not persuaded the evidence currently 
shows its the likely cause. In the absence of damage caused by something external 
and identifiable, as required by the policy, Im not satisfied it would be fair to require 
AIL to accept this part of the claim at this stage.
Its disappointing AIL didnt consider it previously, as it was aware of the findings of 
the contractor. Nonetheless, its offered to do so now, and Im satisfied thats a 
reasonable way to deal with this part of the claim. AIL should identify the likely cause 
of damage  and then decide whether its covered by the policy and let Mr G know.
Based on the drainage contractors notes, it seems to be accepted there were some 
problems with missed appointments  and even after two visits, it hadnt surveyed 
the culvert. I can understand why they may not have been able to survey the culvert 
the first time  Mr Gs contractor also needed two visits due to the nature of the 
problem. I think the missed appointments and the failure to carry out the survey, 
despite two visits, likely caused a delay and inconvenience to Mr G.
Similarly, declining the part of the claim related to tree root damage  and not 
considering the other part  has also caused a delay and inconvenience to Mr G.
Overall, I think AIL should pay compensation for the way it handled the claim. Im 
satisfied £200 is reasonable in the circumstances.Mr G says his home emergency insurer, a different company, was in the process of 
reimbursing the cost of the drain survey he had carried out. So that may have been 
covered elsewhere. But, if not, hes entitled to ask AIL to pay it and Id expect AIL to 
consider doing so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Accept the claim for damage caused by tree roots, including blockages
Consider the claim for the other damage
All subject to the terms and conditions of the policy
Pay £200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman