DRN-1622975
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store card in 2002. 
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it should be 
upheld. AXA France IARD disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ys complaint. 
Mrs Ys card account was most probably taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the 
shop. PPI was added on to the store card account and Mrs Y says she doesnt remember 
being told much about it or even agreeing to add the PPI.
I was sent a copy of the application form she used back in 2002 which had a specific section 
on it about PPI. But that section is very light on detail and it certainly doesnt indicate that 
the type of employment the applicant had at the time could be very important. In fact, theres 
no section on the application form at all which actually asks the consumer about their job 
type or income.
The terms and conditions of the PPI however, were such that certain types of temporary or 
contract work were excluded under the policy rules. In short, people on a short-term contract 
or temporary employment would have been well advised to look very carefully at the rules, 
because in most situations, they wouldnt be able to make a claim successfully for 
unemployment for example.
AXA France IARD doesnt accept that Mrs Y was on such a contract and says it thinks she 
was employed on a more permanent basis. However, its not clear where it got this 
information from  probably from contacting her upon receipt of her complaint. 
However, the investigation notes it has sent us about how it looked into Mrs Ys complaint 
indicate to me that the investigation was very poor. AXA France IARD has used 
unsubstantiated assumptions and general internet searches to make suppositions which cant be relied on. Much of the information just looks like its been copied from other 
documents.
So whilst Mrs Y signed the section about PPI in 2002, AXA France IARD had an important 
duty, to highlight  at the point of sale  that employment type(s) might be a very important 
factor for people thinking about whether to have the PPI or not. This clearly wasnt done.
We know from our experience that these application forms already had certain 
shortcomings. AXA France IARD didnt ask Mrs Y about her job on the form and she now 
says her recollection, after 18 years, is that she was on a temporary contract. AXA France 
IARD cant show me otherwise because the information collected at the time was vague. In 
my view, it would have been far fairer to have established such an important criteria during 
the sale process.
Im therefore upholding Mrs Y's complaint.
What AXA France IARD needs to do to put matters right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs Y in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
It should find out how much Mrs Y would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. AXA France 
IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs Y owes and what she 
would have owed. If Mrs Y made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA 
France IARD can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
If when AXA France IARD works out what Mrs Y would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs Y paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs Y paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs Y wouldve owed AXA France IARD something on 
her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
AXA France IARD should tell Mrs Y what its done to work out all the above
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France IARD must give Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ys complaint and I require AXA France IARD to 
pay the compensation Ive mentioned above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020. (In the current circumstances, Mrs Y can do this 
by scanning the reply form we've attached and emailing it back to us or she can just reply 
by email to let us know. We're not currently able to receive it by post).
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman