DRN-3618629
The complaint
Mrs T complains about problems shes faced and the service shes been provided by 
Nationwide Building Society after it dealt with a claim for a transaction on her credit card.
Mrs T is represented in bringing her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her.
What happened
Mrs T tried to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a 
payment on her credit card. The claim was declined and Mrs Ts complaint about this and 
the service around it, were addressed by this service, which issued a final decision on the 
issues in 2021. But as a part of this, the ombudsman noted that Mrs T had raised an issue in 
relation to a data subject access request (DSAR) which Nationwide hadnt had an 
opportunity to respond to and would need to before we were able to consider it.
Mrs T raised this with Nationwide and it responded in October and November 2021, saying 
that a call from February 2019 hadnt been provided because it couldnt find any record of 
the call in question. It asked for some specific information about the call to see if it could do 
any more to locate it.
Mrs T brought her complaint about this to our service, saying (in summary) that this call 
would prove that her claim under Section 75 would have been successful and that 
Nationwide hadnt considered her overall complaint about discrimination. Our investigator 
said that much of the complaint Mrs T was now bringing had been covered in the previous 
ombudsmans final decision and we couldnt look at those points again.
They did think we could look at the issues around the call being provided under the DSAR 
though. They said that in relation to this, Nationwide provided some contradictory information 
and should have noted the call and acted on information Mrs T provided about it to try and 
locate it. Our investigator also looked at whether Nationwide had discriminated against Mrs T 
in dealing with this matter. They concluded that it hadnt and that any mistakes made here 
were down to service failings rather than discrimination. For this they said that Nationwide 
should pay £100.
Mrs T disagreed in some detail, saying why the issues around this call and the call itself 
mean that Nationwide should now pay the Section 75 claim. So the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by reinforcing what our investigator has already said about the scope of this 
decision. This service has already fully considered Mrs Ts complaint about the Section 75 
claim she made and the issues surrounding this. The ombudsmans final decision was this 
services final word on that and we cant now look at any of these issues again. 
Mrs T has explained that she feels this is a new complaint about not following her 
instructions properly and failing to handle complaints properly. But, as our investigator has 
said, our service has already decided on the issues around Mrs Ts instructions and 
authorisation in respect of the dispute around her Section 75 claim and the relevant 
payment.
This leaves the issue around the DSAR and the call, along with the allegation of further 
discrimination that I can consider. So this decision will be quite short, which is in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal service and the fact that the issues I need to decide 
are quite limited in scope. I realise Mrs T wont see things this way  but I want to reassure 
her that Ive considered everything she has said and provided us in coming to this decision. 
Having done so, I agree that Nationwide could have handled Mrs Ts enquiry around the call 
and the DSAR better. It clearly hadnt noted the call on its systems, so wasnt able to locate 
this when Mrs T made her DSAR request. Then Nationwide told her on the one hand that 
shed need to provide more information, but also suggested that it had searched for this 
anyway. Then when Mrs T provided further information, it then didnt do anything further. 
This would have been frustrating for Mrs T and caused her some distress and confusion. 
But this isnt a reason that we can now look at the merits of Mrs Ts claim under Section 75, 
or the surrounding issues in relation to this payment again. The ombudsman considered the 
content of the call, its bearing on the claim and the surrounding circumstances in their 
decision. Instead, Im looking at the service elements that the other ombudsman hadnt 
considered and that Nationwide has now responded to. Taking into account the 
shortcomings in service here, I think its fair that Nationwide compensates Mrs T and I think 
£100 is a fair and reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In terms of Mrs Ts allegations around her being discriminated against  again the other 
ombudsman considered this point in relation to the circumstances of the complaint they 
decided, so Im not looking at those issues again.
But Ive carefully considered her comments in respect of the issues I can consider and I can 
see why Mrs T feels like this might be the case here. As Ive said above, I think Nationwide 
has provided some poor service here and I dont think its necessarily grasped how its 
actions have made Mrs T feel. But I havent seen anything that makes me think that the 
service failings here can be linked to Nationwide discriminating against Mrs T in the way she 
says. 
For example, I can see that Nationwide hasnt always responded to further correspondence 
from Mrs T, which includes her allegations of discrimination. I can see why thatll be 
frustrating. But in looking at both sides of this complaint, Nationwide clearly didnt think itd 
be helpful to continue corresponding about matters that it felt had been resolved, both by it 
and by this service. Thats a decision its entitled to make and one I think its made fairly 
here.
So, overall, I feel that paying £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs T £100 for the reasons 
given in this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman