DRN-2779810
The complaint
Mrs R says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
1998 in connection with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs R took out in 1998 a few months after she had 
obtained a Principles store card. Mrs R said she never worked more than 16 hours per 
week; she is certain she did not buy the PPI over the telephone; she says she did not know 
about the insurance. She concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs R disagrees, so her
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA Frances internal records show the policy was sold to Mrs R during a telephone call. 
Mrs R says she did not know how the policy had been added; but later said she didnt buy 
PPI over the telephone. Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs R has told us, but I also 
have to consider that because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over 
time. Ive also taken in to account what we know about how AXA France sold these policies 
around this time and everything weve seen in the past.
Although I cant be sure how the policy was sold to Mrs R  there was no recording of the 
telephone call or any notes taken at the time - but that isnt surprising considering the sale 
took place many years ago. I am persuaded when looking at all this information that the sale 
was probably conducted through a telephone call as it was sold to her a few months after the 
store card. So I will proceed on that basis.
I think, on balance, its likely the AXA France representative would have followed a sale 
script and made it clear that the PPI was optional. I say this because Mrs R would have been 
asked for her consent to the cover  and Ive not seen enough evidence to conclude 
otherwise. Ive already noted the PPI was bought some months after Mrs R had the store 
card, and so I think it is more likely she was aware that PPI was a separate and optional 
financial product.
I also think its likely that PPI would have appeared on Mrs Rs store card statements and I 
think Mrs R would have questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she 
hadnt agreed to buy. But it seems Mrs R continued to pay PPI for some years after the PPI
was added to her account.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think AXA France made it clear the policy was optional and 
Mrs R chose to take it out.
I then looked at whether Mrs R was eligible to buy PPI. She told us she wasnt working for 
16 hours per week and this would mean she was not eligible to buy it. However, she has no 
proof from 1998 of her working hours and so, in the absence of that evidence, it is 
reasonable to assume Mrs R was eligible to buy PPI. So I cant uphold the complaint on the 
grounds that she didnt satisfy the eligibility criteria.
AXA France didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs R. So it didnt have to take steps to 
make sure the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Mrs R enough information about 
the policy to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA France gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it could 
have been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about 
Mrs Rs circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think 
better information would have stopped her buying it.
I say this because Mrs R says she had no savings and no sick pay if she was off work.
I noted the PPI policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly balance for 
unemployment, accident or sickness. So it could have paid out on a successful claim at a 
time she might have needed it most. So I think Mrs R could have found this policy useful 
should she have become unable to work or unemployed. Theres nothing to show me Mrs R 
couldnt afford the policy in 1998. And if she no longer wanted it she could have cancelled it 
at any time. Ive taken into account all Mrs Rs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
I also dont think she would have been affected by any of the main things that might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information would have stopped Mrs R 
from buying the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman