DRN-4231098
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, which meant he 
missed out on rewards points and a hotel voucher. Hed like compensation and to be 
awarded the voucher.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Creation. The account allowed him to accrue reward 
points, which could be redeemed for hotel stays or experiences. 
In September 2021 Creation wrote to Mr M to say they would be closing his account in 
December 2021. Creation also stopped crediting his award account with any points he 
accrued after this.
Mr M complained to Creation, but Creation didnt see theyd done anything wrong. They 
referred him to his terms and conditions, saying they had given appropriate notice, and that 
they can remove benefits at any time without prior notice.
Not satisfied with this responses Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Before one of 
our investigators could look into his case Creation offered the accrued points to his reward 
account, and a pro-rata refund of his annual account fee. Mr M declined this offer, asking for 
clarity if hed qualify for a free nights hotel voucher, as well as compensation for the time 
and stress in trying to resolve this matter.
One of our investigators thought Creations offer was fair. They said Creation were within 
their rights to close the account with the required notice, but it was fair that Creation pay the 
accrued points and refund the unused portion of the annual account fee. They didnt see that 
Mr M had met the spending threshold for the free nights voucher. And they didnt agree that 
Mr M should receive any compensation for going through the complaints process.
Mr M disagreed  he highlighted he was on track to reach the spending threshold to receive 
the free nights voucher, so could have done so had Creation not chosen to close his 
account. He felt the lack of communication from Creation and the delays in resolving the 
case should warrant compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
The terms of Mr Ms Creation account state that they can close an account for any 
reasonable reason, so long as they provide at least 60 days notice. In his case Im satisfied 
that Mr M was given the required notice. And I can see Mr M had complained about this 
before the closure date, which tells me it was received and understood. Creation dont have 
to provide reasons for choosing to close an account and havent done so here. But Im 
satisfied that this decision wasnt irrational or unreasonable. So, while I can understand why 
Mr M would be disappointed to learn of his account closure, I dont see Creation have 
treated him unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have now reimbursed Mr M with his accrued points. Im satisfied it was 
unreasonable to deprive him of these points when they closed the account, so its right that 
Creation have now given these to him. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about certain rewards requiring more points now than at 
the time the account was closed. While I appreciate this will be frustrating, Creation have 
now paid the points that were earned at the time, and Im satisfied this is the fairest way for 
the points to be awarded. Its also reasonable that as the account was close part way 
through the period that Creation give Mr M a pro-rata refund of the annual account fee. Im 
glad Creation have agreed to do this.
For the free nights voucher, its not disputed that Mr M didnt reach the spending threshold 
for the voucher. Mr M has argued that this is because Creation closed his account  but as 
explained above I consider the closure to be reasonable and in line with the terms. So, it 
follows I cant reasonably ask them to cover losses that stem from reasonable actions. So, 
as the threshold wasnt met, its reasonable that Creation have declined to offer him a 
voucher.
Further compensation
Ive considered Mr Ms request for compensation. But overall, Im not minded its appropriate 
here. Ive found the underlying issue of the account being closed to be reasonable, so 
wouldnt ask for compensation for that. Creation should have awarded the reward points and 
pro-rata refund of the fee earlier, but Ive seen nothing to suggest this has had any further 
impact on Mr M. 
Our service wouldnt usually award compensation for the inconvenience of having to raise a 
complaint, and in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint I dont see such a significant failing 
by Creation that would warrant compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Creation Financial Services Limited must
Refund the uncredited points if they have not already done so
Pay Mr M the pro-rated annual refund of £37.97
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman