DRN-4193309
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund him money he says he lost as a result of an 
investment scam. 
Mr C is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr C says he lost £30,500 due to an investment scam.  These were all card payments which 
were made to a cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as B: £500 (17 May 2022); £9,500 
(18 May 2022); £500 (18 May 2022); £10,000 (19 May 2022); and £10,000 (19 May 2022). 
As Revolut refused to refund the above payments to Mr C, he raised a complaint which he 
referred to our Service
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part.  He directed that 
Revolut refund Mr C £30,000, so from the £9,500 payment he made to B on 18 May 2022.  
The investigator thought that Revolut should have intervened in this payment and spoken to 
Mr C before releasing it.  Mr C accepted the investigators findings, but Revolut did not, and 
suggested, amongst other things, that Mr C should share some liability for his losses.  
Because an agreement could not be reached, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 7 June 2023, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with the outcome reached by the investigator for reasons I will 
set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Based on Mr C and Revoluts response to our investigators findings, it is not necessary for 
me to make a finding on whether Revolut should have intervened in Mr Cs £9,500 payment 
on 18 May 2022; or whether such an intervention would have made a difference.  Further, 
there does not appear to be a dispute about intervening in the £500 payment to B on17 May 
2022.
Although Revolut accepts it should issue a refund to Mr C, it has argued that liability should 
be split between itself and Mr C by 50%.  That is, it is willing to refund half of the £30,000 the 
investigator has directed due to,  many elements of contributory negligence that should be 
taken into consideration.  Having considered this argument, I am inclined to agree.
When assessing Mr Cs conduct in this matter and deciding whether he is also partly to 
blame for his losses, I have considered  what a reasonable person would be expected to 
have done in Mr Cs circumstances?
Mr C says, amongst other things, The scammer also said the bank will probably stop this 
[payment] but make sure you do not say anything.  The scammer said to invest smaller 
amounts so the transactions will not get stopped by the bank and was very familiar with the 
bank procedure.  I think it is fair to say, objectively, that a reasonable person in Mr Cs 
circumstances ought to have had some suspicions about what the broker was suggesting, 
and questioned things further before making the payments concerned.  I find that a 
reasonable person would have seen red flags if they were told to effectively lie to their bank 
about payments which were meant to be for legitimate purposes. 
I also find that the scam website Mr C viewed suggested returns which were too good to be 
true: The website would also have examples of successful clients, such as a boy who 
invested a small amount of money and was returned £50,000 6 months later [my emphasis 
added].  Again, I find that a reasonable person would have seen red flags here and acted 
accordingly.
Taking all the above points together, I find that Mr C should bear some responsibility for his 
losses.
Responses to my provisional decision
Revolut has not responded to my provisional findings.  However, Mr C has responded 
disagreeing with them and arguing that he should not share liability with Revolut for his 
losses.  Mr Cs position, broadly, is that:
The scammer merely suggested to him to make payments in smaller chunks, but 
did not advise him to misdirect Revolut about the purpose of the payments.
Scammers groom consumers into believing,  the banks are corrupt and to avoid 
providing information to them in order to remain vague.  They also use various 
techniques to persuade unwitting victims to make payments.
I (the ombudsman) have relied on a hypothetical possibility that he would have lied 
to Revolut.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not accept that the scammer only suggested to Mr C that he make small payments.  I 
say this because in Mr Cs initial submissions to our Service, he said the scammer told him, 
amongst other things, that the bank will likely stop your payment,  but make sure you 
dont say anything.  To my mind, this reads as if the scammer was suggesting to Mr C that 
he should not reveal the true nature of his payments if Revolut intervened in them.  I am 
inclined to accept Mr Cs initial submissions, rather than his response to my provisional findings.  Further, I cannot see that any satisfactory reasons have been provided to explain 
why Mr C was being told to mislead Revolut.
Based on the above, I am satisfied that the scammer asked Mr C to mislead Revolut if it 
intervened in his payments.
I take Mr Cs point that Revolut never actually intervened in his payments, so I have erred by 
relying on a scenario which never came to fruition.  However, this is not the point which 
needs to be considered.  The fundamental point is  what a reasonable person would be 
expected to have done in Mr Cs circumstances?  As I stated in my provisional findings, I 
take the view that a reasonable person in Mr Cs circumstances ought to have had some 
suspicions about what the broker was suggesting, and questioned things further before 
making the payments concerned.  That is, Mr C should have had reasonable suspicions 
about why the broker told him,  but make sure you dont say anything [to Revolut].  I have 
reached this view in particular given the fact that at the time, Mr C thought he was engaging 
in something that was legitimate, so he should have questioned why he was being asked to 
mislead Revolut.
I also take Mr Cs point that scammers groom their consumers and use different techniques 
to deceive them into making payments.  However, I take the view that a reaosnable person 
in Mr Cs position ought to have seen red flags when considering the scammers website, 
which suggested a boy made a small investment that resulted in a £50,000 return six months 
later.  I am especially persuaded by this point when taken together with the fact the scammer 
told Mr C to mislead Revolut (see above).
For the above reasons, and the fact Revolut has not responded to my provisional findings  I 
am not persuaded to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.  I therefore direct Revolut Ltd:
Pay Mr C the money he lost, totalling £30,000 (so, starting from the first payment 
made on 18 May 2022  see above); including any transaction fees (if applicable)  
but subject to a 50% deduction for contributory negligence: within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
As Mr C says the source of the funds concerned came from his premium bonds, I do not find 
that making an interest award would be appropriate in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman