DRN-3556763
The complaint
Miss W complains about Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifaxs (Halifax) decision to close 
her current account. 
What happened
In May 2021, Miss W received a text message saying her current account would be closed. 
Miss W questioned whether the banks decision to close her account was linked to a sperate 
complaint she had made about what she considered to be discriminatory behaviour by a 
member of staff. Miss W says she was told by the bank it didnt need to provide a reason for 
closing her account. Miss W says she found the entire matter very distressing and difficult to 
deal with, that staff ignored her disability and was given inconsistent information about how 
to appeal the decision. 
Miss W complained to Halifax. She said to put things right she wanted an apology, 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience, and an explanation as to why the account 
was closed. Miss W also said if the bank decided not to reopen her account then it should 
write off the overdraft, as paying it off would cause her financial difficulties. 
Halifax responded to Miss Ws complaint. In its final response letter, it said the bank had 
provided 65 days notice of the intention to close the account, as required by the terms and 
conditions. It wouldnt agree to change its mind. And it said Miss W could reach an 
arrangement with the collections department to repay her overdraft.
Unhappy with the banks response, Miss W referred her complaint to this service. Miss W 
also sent an email regarding a chargeback she thought Halifax should carry out about a 
holiday. Miss Ws concerns were reviewed by an investigator who said she didnt think the 
bank had acted incorrectly or that the adviser who took Miss Ws call was unsympathetic. 
She said she wouldnt recommend it take steps to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to confirm that while Ive considered everything, Im not going to 
address each and every complaint issue  Im not required to do so. My decision here 
focuses on what I consider to be the most relevant points of the complaint. I trust both sides 
wont take this as a discourtesy, rather its a reflection of this services informal nature.
Closing the account
As this is at the heart of Miss Ws complaint, Ive considered this aspect first. I realise she 
wants us to ask Halifax to reopen the account but Im not going to. The terms and conditions 
that apply to Miss Ws account say:
If we decide to close your account, we will write to you at least two months before to 
explain our position
With this in mind, and while I realise its not the answer Miss W is hoping for, Im satisfied the 
bank acted in line with the policy terms when it took the decision to close her account. By 
letting Miss W know it intended to close her account on 26 May 2021, it provided more than 
60 days notice in writing as required by the terms and conditions. 
Halifax is entitled to decide not to continue a banking relationship with a customer. I havent 
seen in the terms and conditions anything that requires it to give a specific reason for 
deciding to end a relationship, so I cant say it has acted wrongly by not telling Miss W why it 
decided to close her account. As I cant find the bank did anything wrong, I wont be asking it 
to reopen her account.
Miss W has said that the blocks placed on the account after she was told it would be closed 
made things difficult for her. She said in order to make any payment she had to call the bank 
and explain the situation to someone new each time she wanted to make a payment. And 
while I am sorry to hear about the impact this had on Miss W, the bank says some methods 
of banking would be subject to restrictions given the decision to close the account. Halifax 
was entitled to make the decision to end its relationship, and while Im sorry the 
consequence of that decision made things challenging for Miss W, I havent found Halifax 
acted incorrectly. 
How Halifax responded to Miss Ws concerns
Miss W says when she spoke to Halifax about its decision to close the account, it didnt 
respond to her concerns in a way that considered her documented vulnerabilities. I 
appreciate the challenge here is partly in the fact that the bank was delivering a message to 
Miss W that she was unhappy with. 
Ive listened to the call Miss W had with the bank. I acknowledge it was a difficult call 
because she was unhappy with the banks decision to close the account, and she was being 
told about the restrictions that would be in place in during the 65 days. 
I appreciate Miss W wanted a specific reason for the banks decision to close her account. 
The adviser said he didnt have any further information other than her account had been 
reviewed and the decision taken to close her account. Miss W said the bank should make 
reasonable adjustments, but this doesnt mean that it needed to leave her account open 
when it had taken a decision to close it. During the call, while I appreciate the adviser gave 
Miss W a message that she was unhappy with, I didnt hear anything that led me to conclude 
the adviser acted in a discriminatory manner.  
Chargeback
In addition to her complaint form, Miss W said she was unhappy with how the bank handled 
a chargeback request made about a holiday cottage. Miss W says she was told by the bank 
she needed to bring a complaint to this service, while the bank has said it doesnt have any 
record of a request for it to make a chargeback. 
Miss W set out to this service why she considered a chargeback application would be 
successful. The bank has shown a payment of £200 was credited to Miss Ws account in 
August 2021. Miss W has reviewed historic emails and has told me while she no longer has copies of 
emails in which she said she contacted Halifax about the chargeback. However, this isnt 
mentioned in Halifaxs case notes. 
I cant be sure a chargeback complaint has been made to the bank. So, I dont consider 
Halifax acted wrongly in not taking up the chargeback when Miss W says she contacted it. 
Its said that in the first instance, Miss W should contact the merchant directly. I think this is 
what this service would usually expect. If Miss W can show Halifax shes done this, then it 
may be able to consider a complaint about the chargeback, subject to the relevant time limits 
relating to chargebacks. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman