DRN-3857704
The complaint
Miss J complains of irresponsible lending by Lendable Ltd.
What happened
Lendable provided Miss J with a loan for £3,000 on 22 January 2022, repayable over 24
months at the monthly rate of £170.82. She complained to Lendable that the lending was
unaffordable and that it didnt carry out sufficient checks - this had a detrimental effect on her
mental health.
Lendable said it carried out all necessary checks before lending the money. These included
verifying her income, carrying out a credit search and assessing her ability to pay the loan
instalments. It assessed that the loan was affordable.
When she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service Miss J said that
because of her mental health difficulties she is a vulnerable person and didnt know what she
was signing up to when taking out the loan. She wasnt aware of any costs, the monthly
repayment or how long the loan was to be for. She had further mental health problems at
around this time and was in the process of moving house because of domestic violence.
Our adjudicator referred Miss Js complaint back to Lendable, suggesting that in light of her
circumstances it should consider writing off the balance. She advised it of Miss Js mental
and physical health problems. She explained that Miss J was unable to work and lived off
her benefits. She also said that Miss Js daughter had taken on the payments for the loan.
Lendable carried out a new affordability exercise with Miss J, and asked for evidence of her
finances and mental health. Having reviewed this further evidence Lendable assessed that
Miss J was still able to afford the loan, so wouldnt agree to write off the balance of the loan.
It did offer a temporary payment arrangement.
Our adjudicator reviewed the matter again. She said that on the basis of her financial
circumstances, the loan was affordable to Miss J. However she said that overall, she didnt
think Lendable had acted positively or sympathetically while considering Miss Js personal
circumstances, particularly her mental health. She recommended that it write off the balance
of the loan.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that the loan appeared to be affordable for Miss J. 
And I said that on our adjudicator referring it back to Lendable to consider writing off the 
loan, it could have dealt with Miss Js mental health issues more sympathetically, rather than 
treating it as just an affordability exercise. But on the evidence presented I didnt think I could 
justify requiring Lendable to take any further action.
In response Miss J said she didnt request the the loan be written off, and her daughter 
ensures the payments are made on time every month. She did however ask for the interest 
and other charges to be refunded. She said that the loan was issued to her when her mental 
health was at a low point and she was unaware of the cost of it when taking out the loan. 
She question what further evidence she needs to produce to show how she has suffered 
from mental health problems for a long time.
Lendable said it had no further points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
There are two elements to this complaint, firstly whether the loan was affordable to Miss J.
And secondly whether in light of her circumstances, particularly her mental health, whether
Lendable should have responded more sympathetically and written off the balance of the
loan.
affordability/irresponsible lending
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss J
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss J would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Miss Js ability to make the repayments under the agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Lendable had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Lendable had to ensure that
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss J undue difficulty or significant
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss J. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I dont think that Lendable was aware, or ought to have been aware, that Miss J was
vulnerable, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that. In this case, Miss J declared that she
was living on benefits, and Lendable verified this. But that wouldnt be a bar to her being
given a loan.
The credit report showed that, though Miss J had had past difficulties with some utility
accounts, she now had £17 outstanding on one such account and £215 outstanding on
another account. Miss J also had a credit card which was just on its limit of £200, an
overdraft of £186 and a mail order account with £235 outstanding. Im not clear what the
loan was for, but Miss J would have been able to easily clear those accounts and still have
over £2,000 left. Even with the repayments on those accounts. allowing for the £17 account
to be cleared, a 10% payment per month on the electric account, 5% payments for the other
accounts and the new loan instalment, she would have been paying about 18% of her
income on credit commitments.
Miss J would have had about £1,000 income left to pay for her living expenses. The loan did
appear to be affordable. Bearing in mind that at the time Lendable didnt know of her mental
health problems, I cant say that it acted irresponsibly in providing the loan  I think it made a
fair lending decision.
response to Ms Js circumstances
Once it received Miss Js initial complaint where she said she had mental health problems, I
think Lendable did respond sympathetically in its final response letter. It said that it thought
her loan was affordable but did say that it had noted her circumstances and marked her as a
vulnerable customer. It also provided details of various organisations that could help with
debt and advised her of various ways it might the able to help, including freezing interest,
deferring payments, and setting up a payment arrangement. Miss J didnt respond to that
letter and instead approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator referred this matter back to Lendable for it to consider whether in the light of
Miss Js mental health problems, it should be writing off the balance of the loan. Miss J had
said that because of her mental health problems for which she was on a lot of medication,
she didnt know what she was signing up to when she took out the loan, and wasnt aware of
the cost and the monthly instalment. She advised our adjudicator that her daughter was
paying the loan instalments.
Lendable asked Miss J to complete an income and expenditure (I & E) review and for details
of the mental health problems. So far as I can see she supplied her two latest bank
statements with the I & E review. In respect of her mental health, so far as I can see she just
produced evidence of the medication she was taking.
Lendable determined that Miss J was still able to pay the loan. It offered her a temporary 
payment arrangement if she was in temporary difficulties and asked her to suggest an
amount she could pay before returning to full payments. It says that it offered to her to set up
another person as an authorised user to run the account.From the point of view of whether the loan should be written off, this would not usually be the
remedy we think a business should be offering even when we make a finding of
irresponsible lending. It would have to be a clear case where there would have been no
prospect of the loan being repaid. In this case Miss J has been paying regular instalments on
the loan and though she had still got an overdraft, shes still paying the loan from her
account and there doesnt appear to be any payments in from her daughter to reimburse
those.
Im conscious of what Miss J says about her state of mind when applying for the loan but on
the evidence Ive seen I cant really say that that would be sufficient to justify writing off the
loan. I think that Lendable could have treated her mental health issues more sympathetically
when the matter was referred back to it. If it couldnt make a judgement on those it could
have asked for more information, instead of just treating it as an affordability exercise.
However, without further evidence of Miss Js mental health I cant say that its approach was
unreasonable.
If Miss J wants to consider Lendables offer of a payment arrangement or if she wants to
provide it with further evidence of her mental health, she should get in touch with it directly. I
note its offer to set up an authorised user on the account if she doesnt feel she is able to
this herself.
I understand Miss Js points, but if Lendable were to be required to refund interest and other 
charges I would need to find that the loan was unaffordable. And from the evidence Ive seen 
I cant say that Lendable was wrong to assess that the loan was affordable. And whilst I do 
sympathise with Miss Js mental health issues, the evidence seems to suggest that she 
could afford the loan and has been managing to make the payments for it without suffering 
financial distress.
I cant advise her what evidence she would need to support her assertion that she didnt 
know what she was signing because of her mental health issues. She can seek advice from 
any medical professional she is in contact with. And she can approach any of the 
organisations Lendable referred her to. But regrettably I dont think theres any further action 
I can take. 
So, my provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman