DRN-3154319
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Domestic and General Insurance Plcs (D&G) agent sold her a 
mobile phone insurance policy that didnt cover her mobile phone. And that as a result of this 
when she lost her mobile phone and claimed under her policy D&G refused her claim. 
  
What happened
Miss O went into a high street retailer who was acting as an agent of D&G and asked if she 
could buy a mobile phone insurance policy. The member of staff at the retailer sold her their 
branded mobile phone insurance policy. D&G then sent the policy documentation to Miss O. 
Miss O lost her phone whilst she was on a tube journey. It seems it could have been stolen 
without her realising it. She made a claim under her policy. D&G turned the claim down 
because the policy doesnt cover mobile phones that werent purchased from Argos. They 
also mentioned the policy doesnt cover theft unless force was involved. 
Miss O complained to D&G. It upheld her complaint, as it accepted that its agent shouldnt 
have sold her the policy without checking that shed purchased her phone from Argos. It 
agreed to refund the premium shed paid for the policy, plus interest and pay her £30 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss O wasnt happy with D&Gs response, as she thought that as a result of its agents 
mistake shed ended up without appropriate cover for her mobile phone. So she asked us to 
consider her complaint. 
One of our investigators suggested that D&G should replace Miss Os phone and pay her a 
further £120 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. This was on the basis that if 
their agent hadnt made a mistake shed have ended up with another policy which she could 
have claimed successfully on.
 
D&G dont agree with our investigators suggestion. This is because Miss O chose a policy 
that didnt cover theft without the use of force. And its pointed out that this means that even if 
her phone was purchased from the retailer, Miss Os claim would still have been turned 
down.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator correctly pointed out when putting his view on the case to D&G, its sales 
agent failed to comply with the rules covering the sale of a general insurance policy  the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), which says the following:
ICOBS 5.1.1 - a firm should take reasonable steps to ensure that a customer only buys a
policy under which he is eligible to claim benefits.
However, D&G seems to have accepted this, as it agreed Miss O shouldnt have been sold 
the policy and has refunded what she paid for it. And I agree with our investigator that D&Gs 
agent did fail to meet its obligations, as it should have checked and realised Miss O wasnt 
eligible for the policy. I appreciate Miss O could have picked this up from the Insurance 
Product Information Document she was provided with after shed bought the policy, but shes 
said she simply trusted the sales agent would only have sold her a policy for which she was 
eligible and didnt notice she actually wasnt. And I think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances and doesnt alter my view that D&G should compensate Miss O for its agents 
failure to meet its obligations. 
In my opinion, D&Gs response doesnt consider the loss Miss O has most likely suffered as 
a result of its agents failure to meet its obligations. I say this because I think if the agent had 
correctly told Miss O she wasnt eligible for the policy because she hadnt bought her phone 
from them, she would then have gone somewhere else and bought a policy that did cover 
her phone. 
Putting things right
Miss O has said she would have gone to the retailer where shed bought her mobile phone 
from and bought a policy from them. And our research suggests if shed done this, she have 
been able to buy a policy for about the same cost as the one she bought with D&Gs agent. 
And this would have included cover for the loss or her phone or the theft of it without force 
being used. Therefore, I think her claim under this policy would have been accepted. And 
Miss O would have been provided with a checked and fully functional refurbished phone of 
the same make and model as the one she lost. It looks like Miss O would have had to pay an 
excess. But I cant tell what this would have been for her model of phone. So, I think as part 
of the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint D&G should either pay Miss O the cost 
of a checked and fully functional refurbished phone of the same make and model to replace 
the one she lost. Or provide her with a suitable checked and fully functional refurbished 
replacement.   
I also agree with our investigator that Miss O should get more compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. This is because shes been without a replacement phone or the funds to 
cover the cost of replacement for some time. And this combined with the distress of having a 
claim turned down must have been inconvenient and upsetting for her. But I think its fair for 
this to be provided by a combination of the fact that nothing is deducted to reflect the excess 
Miss O would have had to pay if she had the policy she should have had and £75. 
 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Os complaint. Domestic and General Insurance Plc must either pay Miss O 
the cost of a checked and fully functional refurbished phone of the same make and model as 
the one she lost or had stolen or provide her with one of these.  
Domestic and General Insurance Plc must also pay Miss O £75 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman