DRN-3435324
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card account with Aqua. In July 2020, he contacted Aqua and told it about 
his personal circumstances. He explained the impact they were having on his financial 
situation. Aqua put a block on his account for three months. Mr W contacted Aqua again in 
September 2020 and the block was extended for a further three months. Aqua also sent Mr 
W an Income and Expenditure form to complete.
In January 2021, Aqua defaulted Mr Ws account and reported this to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. Mr W complained. He said hed returned the completed Income and Expenditure 
form in December 2020. He asked Aqua to remove the default from his credit file. Aqua 
responded to the complaint in May 2021. It apologised for the delay in investigating the 
complaint and paid Mr W £40 as compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. But 
Aqua said it had reported the default correctly and didnt agree to remove it.
Mr W wasnt happy with Aquas response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think Aqua needed to do anything. But Mr W didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its not disputed that Mr W contacted Aqua in July 2020 and that a block was placed on his 
account at that time. Nor is it disputed that the block was extended until mid-December 
2020. Having seen Mr Ws statements, Im satisfied that no interest or charges were applied 
to the account from July 2020 onwards.
Aqua says that Collections activity was stopped while the block was in place, but this didnt 
stop arrears building up on the account. In effect, this meant that Aqua didnt expect Mr W to 
make payments, and its Collections department didnt chase him for payment while the block 
was in place, but arrears built up on the account because payments werent being made. I 
think thats a reasonable approach.
Aqua says it no longer has recordings of its calls with Mr W in July and September 2020, 
due to the amount of time which has passed. But it has provided call guides which set out 
the information its call handlers need to cover during conversations with customers. This 
information includes telling customers that arrears will continue to build on their accounts. 
On balance, I find it likely that Mr W was told that arrears would accrue on his account while 
the block was in place. This was also confirmed by the monthly statements, which showed 
the amount of the arrears each month.
Mr W wasnt in a position to make payments, so arrears built up on the account from July 
2020 onwards. By January 2021, there had been no payments for six months and Aqua 
defaulted the account. Id expect a business to treat an account as defaulted by the time a 
customer is six months in arrears with no arrangement in place. So I dont think Aqua acted 
unreasonably by defaulting the account.
But Mr W says he didnt know that Aqua was going to default his account. He says he didnt 
receive any letters and Aqua didnt contact him at all. From the information Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Aqua wrote to Mr W about the status of his account several times in the period 
from August 2020 to January 2021. It sent him Notices of Sums in Arrears, a default notice, 
a letter terminating his credit card agreement and a notice of intention to register information 
about the default with the Credit Reference Agencies. 
Mr W says he didnt receive these. He has explained that he changed his address while this 
complaint has been ongoing, but that wasnt until quite some time after these letters were 
sent. Im satisfied that they were sent to the correct address at the time, so I cant explain 
why Mr W didnt receive them. But I cant safely conclude that it was Aquas fault.
Mr W says he returned the Income and Expenditure form to Aqua in around December 2020. 
Aqua says it has no record of receiving this. I havent seen the form. But Mr W says he wont 
be going back to work and doesnt have any assets or spare funds. So, I find it likely that the 
account would have been defaulted even if Aqua had received the form.
I know Mr W feels strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
think Aqua acted unfairly by defaulting the account. In the circumstances, I think it was fair 
for it to report the default to the Credit Reference Agencies, as its obliged to report accurate 
information about the status of the account.
Aqua explained in its Final Response Letter that it doesnt intend to pursue Mr W for the 
outstanding balance but that it will continue to show as unsettled on his credit file. I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask Aqua to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman