DRN-4415540
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) rejected a claim on 
her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Es complaint is about a claim on her buildings insurance policy for damage to four 
windows, which she said had been damaged in a storm. Her husband has dealt with the 
correspondence on her behalf but Ill refer to Mrs E throughout as shes the policyholder.
RSA rejected the claim, saying Mrs E hadnt proved the windows had suffered storm 
damage. It said the issue was with condensation forming between the panes of glass in the 
double glazing, and this was more likely a sign of the seals having failed. 
Mrs E disagreed and lodged a complaint but RSA didnt change its decision. RSA did accept 
there had been some delays in dealing with the claim and paid some compensation for that. 
But Mrs Es real concern is the rejection of the claim. 
When she referred the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. So shes requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA considered the claim under the storm damage section of the policy. Theres no  
definition of a storm in the policy. In the absence of a specific definition it would normally be 
taken to involve violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
In the first instance its for the policyholder to prove their claim. So Mrs E needs to show the 
damage was caused by a storm. There are three issues to consider  whether:
storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened;
the damage is consistent with damage a storm typically causes; and
the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
Mrs E was away over the period when the damage occurred. So she cant say specifically 
when it happened. But looking at reports for the period in question, there had been poor 
weather and in particular, winds with peak gusts of 61mph and around 8mm of rainfall per 
hour recorded on a date around a week before she made the claim. Im satisfied there were 
storm conditions.
In this case, the issues with the windows concerned condensation. That wouldnt typically be 
due to a storm. But water getting into a property is consistent with the sort of damage that is 
caused by a storm, so on balance I think its fair to say this is the sort of damage that might 
be consistent with storm damage.
But Mrs E needs to show the damage to the windows was storm damage. RSA says its 
more likely due to the window seals failing, which is something that happens over time rather 
than a sudden incident. Condensation doesnt generally happen suddenly as a result of a 
storm. 
Mrs E says the windows were maintained regularly and had been checked shortly before the 
storm and were in good condition; there were no signs of damage before the storm but 
afterwards, the windows were leaking. She also says if this was a matter of wear and tear, it 
would have affected all the windows in the building but only four were damaged. She 
believes the force of the winds would stress the window frame, the beading and the sealant 
to such an extent that the window could let water in. She accepted in correspondence with 
RSA that she couldnt prove this, but says its the most logical explanation. 
The evidence isnt conclusive on what caused the damage. RSA sought advice on the likely 
cause and has pointed out that condensation typically happens because the seals have 
failed, which isnt something caused suddenly by storm damage. 
Mrs E didnt get expert evidence because she says it was obvious to her this was storm 
damage. Mrs Es argument may be a logical explanation but as Ive said, she needs to prove 
her claim. That means not just showing something is possible or theres a logical explanation 
for it, but that its more likely than not this is what happened. While it may seem logical to 
Mrs E what happened, I dont think she has provided evidence to prove her claim that this 
was storm damage; indeed she previously accepted she couldnt prove this. 
For these reasons I think RSAs decision on the claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman