DRN-4083019
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the poor service he received from Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited. He sought roadside assistance when he broke down while travelling abroad with his 
family on holiday. 
What happened
Mr R broke down while on holiday abroad. He raised a series of complaints with Acromas 
about the way it dealt with things. 
Acromas upheld some of Mr Rs complaints. It accepted that there were long wait times 
when Mr R called and it made some errors in the handling of the claim. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused it paid Mr R £200 compensation. It provided details of how Mr R could 
submit a claim for his costs for Acromas to consider. 
Mr R asked us to look at things for him. Our Investigator thought Acromas should increase 
the compensation it paid to £300. 
Acromas didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. Mr R didnt reply to the 
Investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr R that although I havent referred to everything hes written to us about, I 
have carefully considered all of his complaints. I have focused on the salient points in my 
findings. 
Mr R broke down in August 2022, the day before he was due to return to the UK. He and his 
family returned to the UKI a day later than planned. Acromas arranged for hotel 
accommodation when they arrived to rest, due to not having a cabin available for the 
overnight crossing. And it arranged for a hire car for the return journey home. 
Mr R returned to France to collect his car after repair. 
Acromas accepts that there were long wait times for Mr R and the garage to get through to it 
and its European agents. Acromas said it was the busiest period of the year, but 
acknowledges that there was a lack of communication. 
Acromas has reimbursed Mr R for costs up to £1,077.47. These include taxi fares, ferry 
travel, vehicle collection and fuel. 
Mr R provided us with a breakdown of further costs he wants Acromas to reimburse him for. 
This breakdown comes to a total of £311.42 and largely consists of food and drink for the 
journey home and during his return journey to collect his repaired vehicle. I dont think these 
are costs Acromas is responsible for reimbursing Mr R for in line with the policy terms. 
But I think its clear that the experience of breaking down, not having their car to return 
home, and having to make alternative arrangements was disruptive and stressful for Mr R 
and his family. He explained that his wife is disabled and one of their children has autism. So 
having to deal with the break down was even more stressful. 
Its inevitable that there will always be disruption and inconvenience when a breakdown 
occurs on holiday and in a different country - even if Acromas handled the claim without 
error. But I think there were failings by Acromas in the communication side of things which 
caused additional stress. Being able to easily get in touch with Acromas was understandably 
very important to Mr R when he needed to call for assistance. I can understand why Mr R felt 
he and his family were left to fend for themselves. 
However, I also have taken into account that not all of the challenges faced by Mr R because 
of the breakdown were issues Acromas could have dealt with differently. Some were outside 
of its control. Some arrangements were made correctly by Acromas, but not followed 
through by hire car companies and taxi companies. Availability of transport, suitable hire car 
and accommodation changed at short notice which was inevitable when looking to find a 
way to return Mr R and his family at a busy holiday period and to meet their needs. 
But I dont think the compensation Acromas has paid of £200 is enough to put things right. I 
think it was responsible for errors in bookings made for the return journey, information 
provided about the whereabouts of Mr Rs car, repatriation options and generally a lack of 
service and support at an already stressful time. 
So I think a fair outcome is for Acromas to increase the compensation it paid by £100 to 
£300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to pay a further £100 compensation in addition to the £200 its already paid to Mr R 
for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused. 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman