DRN-4301563
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy with the service theyve received from U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line (UKI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs V have a landlords commercial property insurance policy underwritten by UKI. 
In September 2022 Mr and Mrs V accidentally cancelled the direct debit for the policy. They 
contacted UKI on 4 October 2022, paid the outstanding monthly instalment and were told 
that the direct debit would be reinstated.
The following month UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs V to say that the direct debit had failed and 
unless Mr and Mrs V contacted UKI to make the payment, the policy would be cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs V called and made the payment and were told that UKI had been unable to 
reinstate the direct debit previously, and Mr and Mrs V would also need to contact their bank. 
The direct debit was reinstated and there were no further issues after that point.
Mr and Mrs V complained to UKI about what had happened.
UKI responded and ultimately paid £30 compensation. This included £5 towards the cost of 
telephone calls. Mr and Mrs V remained unhappy with the compensation amount and 
approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She thought the 
compensation already paid by UKI was reasonable, so she didnt recommend it be 
increased.
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs V, 
Im not going to direct UKI to do anything further.
It isnt in dispute that the service Mr and Mrs V were given by UKI fell short. After 
Mr and Mrs V cancelled their direct debit in error and contacted UKI, after taking the 
outstanding payment on 4 October 2022, UKI said the direct debit would be reinstated. So, I 
can understand why it would be concerning to receive a letter the following month which said 
the policy would be cancelled unless payment was made, as the direct debit had failed.
After receipt of that letter, when speaking to UKI, the agent explained that the previous agent 
had followed the correct process in contacting their finance department to reinstate the direct 
debit. But the previous agent should also have told Mr and Mrs V to contact their bank too. 
UKI has explained that sometimes reinstating a direct debit isnt successful from their end, 
and the bank would need to be contacted. But Mr and Mrs V werent told this on that first 
call.
Therefore, I can understand why Mr and Mrs V were concerned when they received a letter 
from UKI saying the policy would be cancelled unless payment was made, as they were 
under the impression UKI had resolved matters during that first call. However, the following 
day Mr and Mrs V spoke to UKI, and the issue was resolved at that point and the policy 
wasnt cancelled. And since the direct debit has been reinstated, no further issues have 
occurred. So, whilst I appreciate the initial distress this may have caused 
Mr and Mrs V, the issue has been resolved and their policy wasnt cancelled.
UKI accepts things went wrong and this is why it has paid £30 compensation, which includes 
£5 towards phone call costs. I do recognise Mr and Mrs V had to make multiple calls and 
they were concerned when they received a letter saying the policy may be cancelled, but I 
think this amount is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so Im not going to direct 
UKI to increase this.
Mr and Mrs V have also said that the agent didnt raise a complaint during the call on 
3 November 2022. However, having listened to the call, Mr and Mrs V said theyd be leaving 
feedback online later after the call about what had happened (including letters being sent 
second rather than first class) so it could be learnt from in the future, so I can see why a 
complaint wasnt raised by the agent at that point.
Mr and Mrs V then raised a complaint online on 10 December 2022. And UKI addressed the 
complaint and issued a final response five days later. 
Even if the agent had raised a complaint during that conversation (but I can see why they 
didnt based on what Mr and Mrs V said), UKI would have had eight weeks in line with the 
Financial Conduct Authority complaint handing rules to issue their final response to the 
complaint. So, if it was raised on 3 November 2022, then UKI would have had until 
3 January 2023 to issue their final response.  
UKI issued the final response on 15 December 2022, five days after Mr and Mrs V raised the 
complaint online. So even if the agent had logged a complaint on 3 November 2022, they 
still had a final response within eight weeks of that call, so I cant see that any detriment has 
been caused either way.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman