DRN-3484613
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) approved an overdraft for him when he says he 
had a poor credit rating, was under the influence of alcohol and not in the right frame of 
mind.  
What happened
Mr R opened an account with TSB in December 2019. In May 2021 he applied for an 
overdraft of £250 and was declined. The following month he was approved for a £50 
overdraft and the limit was increased to £3,000 over the space of a week.
Mr R spent to the top of his limit within a fortnight of it being approved and stopped using his 
account in the same month.
Mr R raised a complaint about the overdraft facility in October 2021 asking that the balance 
be written off or interest frozen. TSB referred Mr R to its financial support services to discuss 
options available to him. As Mr R failed to get in touch TSB passed Mr Rs account to 
recoveries in November 2021 and stopped applying interest and fees to the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and didnt think TSB had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Rs complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
TSB needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
TSB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R would 
be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TSB did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Rs overdraft. Mr R was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks TSB carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr R would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
TSB has told us Mr Rs first application for credit was declined in May 2021 but the following 
month he was accepted due to an approved credit score between the two applications. It 
says this was due to Mr R closing a credit facility. Mr R applied for the overdraft online and 
like the previous application it was fully credit scored taking into account information Mr R 
provided about his income and outgoings as well as internal information held and information 
held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this 
information TSB was satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft 
facility he requested. 
Ive looked at both applications and the assessment TSB made on the amount it was willing 
to lend. I can see that the calculated affordable amount on the first application was £0 but on 
the following application it was over £4,000 and that it would agree a limit up to £3,000. I 
understand Mr R says he was under the influence of alcohol at the time the applications 
were made  but there was no way TSB would have known this and Mr R had never it aware 
of any problems he had that could affect his ability to manage his account. 
I accept that Mr Rs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to TSB at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told TSB this. But TSB was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit check it carried out. Given there is no evidence of any adverse information shown on 
the credit check and Mr R had managed his account well in the previous 18 months, I think 
TSBs checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Mr R hit the top of his limit within a fortnight of the overdraft facility being 
approved and stopped using the account. Following this TSB sent Mr R a number of letters 
about his account and Mr R got in touch with TSB in October 2021 and TSB referred him to 
its financial services support team to discuss a way forward. But as Mr R failed to get in 
touch it, transferred Mr Rs account to recoveries and stopped charging interest and fees on 
the account. 
Im satisfied that the action TSB took in the circumstances was appropriate once it became 
aware Mr R was suffering from financial difficulties. I understand Mr R would like the 
overdraft debt written off but ultimately Mr R used and benefitted from the credit and Lloyds 
are entitled to recover that debt.
This means that I dont agree TSB provided Mr Rs with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman