DRN-4333445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim made on 
their home insurance policy for a stolen bicycle and accessories.
As Mr M has primarily dealt with things, for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr M had a home insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes which included 
bicycle cover. When the policy renewed in June 2022, he specified two bikes. A 
Brompton for £1,700 and a Cooper Oporto for £1,000.
In December 2022, Mr M got in touch with Great Lakes after his Fairlight bike and 
some accessories were stolen.
Great Lakes said Mr M hadnt specified the Fairlight bike on the policy, so the claim 
was declined.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said hed previously added bikes to the policy. But 
when he replaced the Brompton with the Fairlight, hed forgotten to tell Great Lakes. 
He accepted that was a mistake, but he questioned what difference it had made to 
Great Lakes. And he thought it should cover the accessories regardless.
During our investigation, Great Lakes said Mr M would have been charged a higher 
premium had he specified the Fairlight, as it was worth more than the Brompton and 
its pricing is sensitive to the bike value. The Fairlight was worth around £4,000 and 
Great Lakes said that would have meant around £85 of additional premium.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mr M had 
bought the Fairlight prior to the 2022 policy renewal, so he ought to have told Great 
Lakes about it. If he had done so, Great Lakes would have charged a higher 
premium to reflect the increased risk of insuring a more valuable bike. But, aside 
from this, the investigator didnt think there was any other prejudice to Great Lakes. 
As a result, he asked it to settle the claim proportionately, based on the premium paid 
by Mr M compared to the premium he would have paid if hed specified the Fairlight.
Great Lakes didnt agree with this. It made a number of points, so Ill summarise 
those I think are most relevant:
oAs the stolen bike wasnt specified on the policy, Great Lakes was entitled to 
decline the claim for it.
oMr M knew he needed to specify the new bike but didnt do so. And there was 
around six months between him buying the new bike and the claim, so he had 
ample time to specify the bike prior to the theft. None of this is the fault of 
Great Lakes, so it shouldnt lose out.
oGreat Lakes didnt get the chance to collect the premium or assess the risk 
for the replacement bike, so its position has been prejudiced.
oMaking Great Lakes pay towards the claim in these circumstances would 
make insurance contracts non-binding, introduce uncertainty, risk insolvency 
and could let people deliberately underinsure to reduce premiums  all of 
which would treat insurers unfairly.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says bicycles worth over £500 need to be specified. Theres no dispute 
that Mr M was aware of that or that all his bikes were over that value.
I agree with Great Lakes that at the time of the renewal, Mr M ought to have told it 
that he no longer had the Brompton and was in the process of replacing it with the 
more valuable Fairlight. Hed already ordered it and paid towards it, so I think he 
either owned it at that time or would do so shortly. Mr M accepts it was his mistake 
not to tell Great Lakes about the change.
This means that at the time of the loss, Mr M hadnt specified the stolen bike. Great 
Lakes position is quite simply that it therefore has no liability to pay a claim for the 
bike. That may be the contractual position, but I need to consider whether that would 
produce an outcome thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Where a consumer makes a mistake and doesnt provide reasonable information at a 
renewal, the usual remedy is to consider what impact that mistake had on the 
insurer. Thats in line with misrepresentation principles.
Great Lakes says it would have covered the Fairlight, but at a higher premium, as its 
more valuable than the Brompton. Mr M paid around £1,000 for the home policy, 
including the additional bike cover. Great Lakes says it would have charged around 
£85 extra for the new bike. That means Mr M has paid around 92% of the premium 
he ought to have done. The investigator effectively suggested Great Lakes pay 92% 
of the claim to reflect this. That comes to around £3,600.
Ive thought about the points Great Lakes has made and I agree this suggestion 
wouldnt treat it fairly in the circumstances of this case. It understood it was insuring a 
bike for £1,700  thats what its premium and underwriting was based on. And thats 
what it would have factored into its wider risk management and planning. Great 
Lakes isnt responsible for this information being wrong. So Im not satisfied it would 
be reasonable to ask it to pay more than double the specified amount for an 
unspecified item.
But nor am I satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for it to decline the claim 
outright in the circumstances of this case. Great Lakes thought it was insuring two 
bikes  and that was an accurate reflection of the true position. The replacement bike 
was within its underwriting appetite and was, in my view, materially the same kind of 
item. Great Lakes has been clear that the key driver of its risk assessment is the value of the bike, rather than the make or model. Mr M would have paid for £1,700 of 
bike cover within the overall premium, so I think hes entitled to that level of cover.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Great Lakes to settle the claim for the amount specified on the policy, £1,700, subject 
to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, such as the excess and any other 
relevant policy limits. That includes the accessories, which the policy treats as 
effectively a part of the bike.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Great Lakes did. It made a number of comments but largely this amounted to 
reiterating many of its previous points. So I wont repeat them. It also said the policy 
wasnt renewed as I said it had been  it was new business.
Its clear from Great Lakes response that it strongly disagrees with my provisional 
decision. Ive considered its comments. But as theyre mostly the same points it had 
made earlier, Id already taken them into account when reaching my provisional 
decision. Ive thought about the points carefully again, but I remain satisfied my 
findings produce a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes says the policy wasnt renewed in 2022  it was new business. The 
policy was taken out through an intermediary, J.
An internal document provided to us by Great Lakes says, policy inception  2021 
and, in relation to the 2022 policy, renewal accept.
The policy documents sent to Mr M in 2022 say your [J branded] insurance has 
been renewed  thank you or staying with us. So Im satisfied the policy was 
renewed in 2022.
Its possible the underwriter was different in 2021. So, to Mr M, the policy was 
renewed. But to Great Lakes it was new business. Even if that were the case, Great 
Lakes hasnt explained why it thinks this makes a difference.
Theres no dispute that Mr M replaced the Brompton with the Fairlight around the 
time of the 2022 policy sale/renewal and should have told Great Lakes  but he 
forgot to. So Im not persuaded it makes any difference whether it was a renewal or a 
new policy, the underlying problem is the same.
Overall, Mr M paid an extra premium to insure a bike for up to £1,700. He replaced it 
with another bike, worth at least that much, which Great Lakes was also prepared to 
insure.
So whilst Mr M made a mistake by not telling Great Lakes about the change, had he 
told Great Lakes, it would still have insured the new bike. It would have done so for 
more than £1,700 and Mr M would have been charged an additional premium as a 
result. But my award is for Great lakes to pay up to the policy limit that was in place, and which its premium, underwriting and wider risk management and planning was 
based on  £1,700.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied Great Lakes has lost out as a result of Mr 
Ms mistake. Its paying no more than it thought it was going to, for a very similar 
item. Whereas Mr M has lost out as a result of his mistake. For an additional 
premium of £85, hes likely to receive around £2,000 less for his bike but for his 
mistake. So I think its clear where the loss flowing from his mistake rests.
Great Lakes should now settle the claim, up to the £1,700 policy limit, subject to any 
other terms of the policy that apply, such as an excess.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle the claim up to £1,700, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman