DRN-3546277
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt make the features of its Plus 
service clear and that it didnt cancel this on request. 
What happened
G is represented by its director who also has a personal account with Monzo Bank. He says 
that he wanted to have a virtual card for G. And in December 2021 was directed on the 
website to apply for Monzo Plus. He quickly realised that a virtual card wasnt available for 
business accounts and he told Monzo Bank in an online chat he wanted to cancel this 
service. He is unhappy that this didnt happen and wants a refund of fees paid.
Monzo Bank said that a virtual card was only available for a personal current account. When 
the director was in contact it had told him he would need to go onto the app to cancel the 
service within 14 days of applying. This didnt happen and so fees were charged. It wouldnt 
be refunding these.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The terms and conditions of 
the product had been accepted. The virtual card with Monzo Plus applied to a current 
account and not the business account. Monzo Bank had told the director during the online 
chat how to cancel the product. It had said he had read the message and he hadnt taken 
any action. Monzo Bank is an app-based bank and he didnt think it unreasonable that the 
director be asked to complete this in the app. While the director may have assumed this had 
been cancelled thats not what the message said.
G didnt agree. The director said that it didnt matter what had been deemed as viewed 
during the online chat. He had made a clear request to cancel the service within a 14-day 
cooling off period. Monzo Banks team should have ensured that this was done. He would 
have expected help when say signing up to the app and so this should apply if a service was 
cancelled. He is disappointed that a request in writing was ignored and that the process 
created friction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the information available that the Monzo Plus service didnt give virtual 
cards for a business account. I say this for two reasons. First virtual cards didnt appear to 
available for business accounts at that time. And in addition, Monzo Plus was a service 
relating to personal and not business accounts.
In any event the director of G realised this having signed up and wanted to cancel the 
product. The terms and conditions of the Monzo Plus account applicable at the time state 
that if you change your mind, you can cancel Monzo Plus within 14 days of signing up. If 
youd like to cancel you can do this in the app. Well give you a full refund of your monthly 
fee...
During the online chat about this the director was passed to a specialist team. That team 
replied as follows:
I'm sorry to hear about whats happened!. You can cancel Monzo Plus within 14 days of 
signing up. Just go to the Plus tab, scroll down and select "Settings", then tap "Cancel 
Monzo Plus". We'll give you a full refund of your monthly fee as per our Ts&Cs.
Let me know if you have any trouble with this [name of director anonymised]!
Im afraid I think that what the director needed to do was set out and the explanation was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the product. Its a matter for Monzo Bank to set its 
processes and it offered to assist the director if there were any issues. So, I dont think it 
made any mistake in not cancelling the service at that time. And I wont be requiring it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman