DRN-4271716
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr E purchased some LVT flooring from an online supplier and paid using his 
HSBC card. Mr E purchased 34 packs of LVT at £44.47 per pack less 10% discount, plus 
some underlay. The total cost was £1743.23.
The flooring was fitted by a contractor chosen by Mr E. Within 6 months, Mr E experienced 
issues with the boards chipping, the top layer delaminating and the joins separating. He also 
found that the flooring scratched easily.
Mr E complained to the supplier but was unable to resolve matters. He contacted HSBC to 
raise a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
HSBC reviewed the information provided by Mr E in support of his claim. It said it couldnt 
agree a refund because the cost of each individual pack of flooring was below the minimum 
single value limit of the relevant legislation. It also said there appeared to be a difference of 
opinion between Mr E and the supplier as to the cause of the issue and said that Mr E hadnt 
provided any evidence that there was a fault with the LVT flooring.
Mr E was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
thought that the flooring was of poor quality and not fit for purpose.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that without independent evidence 
that the tiles werent of satisfactory quality, it wasnt possible to say that they werent fit for 
purpose after six months.
Mr E didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Es complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that HSBCs response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr E hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred 
and Id expect the supplier to put things right by offering a repair or a refund, depending on 
the circumstances of the case.
The relevant law says that the quality of goods includes their general state and condition, as 
well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety and durability.
Mr E has said that the flooring began to deteriorate within the first 6 months of installation. 
Hes provided photos showing that the boards have separated. Ive looked at these and I 
agree that there appears to be an issue with the flooring. 
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Mr E and the supplier. The supplier refers to the 
manufacturers concerns with regards to how the floor has been fitted. It said that the fitting 
instructions which were supplied with the flooring state that a 6mm expansion gap is 
necessary. The supplier said that Mr E had advised them that a 4mm expansion gap had 
been left. The supplier also referred to the fitting instructions stating that kitchen cabinets 
should not be installed directly over the floor. The supplier said that the way the flooring had 
been fitted was the cause of the issues Mr E was experiencing, because the floor had not 
been able to move freely.
Ive also reviewed the letter from the contractor who installed the flooring for Mr E. This 
states that a minimum gap of 6mm was left around the perimeter.
Mr E has acknowledged that the kitchen was installed over the flooring.
The only way to be certain about the installation gap  as well as other aspects of the 
installation and other factors which might have affected the performance of the flooring - 
would be if the floor was independently inspected. The contractor used by Mr E wouldnt be 
classed as independent for these purposes so it would need to be a third-party flooring 
specialist who carried out the inspection and provided a report. 
At present there isnt an independent report.
Mr E says that the flooring isnt of satisfactory quality. The supplier  supported by the 
manufacturer  says that the flooring hasnt been fitted correctly, and that it is the installation 
which has caused the issues. Taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough 
evidence to show that the flooring has a manufacturing defect or to persuade me that the 
flooring wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
rejected the claim under section 75. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman