DRN-4431505
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Wakam handled a claim under his commercial car insurance 
policy for the theft of his vehicle. 
References to Wakam in this decision includes their agents.
This decision covers the time from the theft of Mr Ps vehicle in September 2022, through his 
complaint to Wakam in December 2022, to Wakams response in February 2023. It doesnt 
cover events from that point through to the settlement of his claim in July 2023, as they 
havent been the subject of a complaint to Wakam. 
What happened
Mr P had a commercial car insurance policy with Wakam, covering his vehicle and his part-
time role as a fast food delivery driver. In September 2022, his vehicle was stolen from a 
supermarket car park, while he was collecting items from the supermarket to fulfil an order. 
Mr P said he locked the car with the key, but when he returned to the car park the car had 
gone. He notified the theft to Wakam through a phone app and the local police, who gave 
him with a crime reference number the following day. The vehicle wasnt recovered. A bank 
card and credit cards were also taken in the theft and two were used in the local area before 
Mr P cancelled them.
Wakam appointed a claim handler (C) and, because of the circumstances of the theft, an 
investigation firm (CG). CG subsequently interviewed Mr P via video at the start of October 
2022. Shortly afterwards, Mr P was asked to supply the vehicle key to CG, which he did by 
return (Mr P said the vehicle was only supplied with one key when he purchased it). The key 
was sent away for analysis, as part of CGs investigation. Receipt of the key analysis took 
some time, so CGs report wasnt finalised until mid-November 2022.
Wakam then requested a report from the police. The police asked Wakam to complete a 
form for them to provide a report, but the form had to be re-sent as the police wouldnt 
accept a digitally signed form (December 2022). The form then had to have another section 
completed and re-sent to the police (January 2023). 
Unhappy at how long it was taking to assess the claim, Mr P complained to Wakam in 
December 2022. He said hed responded to all requests for information on a timely basis, 
but Wakam hadnt been proactive in handling the claim. A report from the police hadnt been 
requested until November, some eight weeks after the theft. And Mr P hadnt received 
callbacks after hed been told he would, on several occasions. And hed had to chase 
Wakam for updates. The theft of his vehicle also meant he couldnt work, causing him 
significant financial loss, for which he wanted compensation. 
Wakam didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said there were procedures 
and protocols involved in assessing a claim for vehicle theft. Delays were caused getting the 
police report and their requesting a form to be re-signed as the police wouldnt accept digital 
signatures. Wakam said they had to adhere to procedures and protocols, as well as Service 
Level Agreements (SLAs).  
Mr P then complained to this Service, saying there had been repeated delays in assessing 
and settling his claim. Hed complained to Wakam in December 2022 but only received an 
acknowledgement in February 2023 and then a response setting out the actions Wakam had 
taken to date. But Mr P wasnt happy with the response, indicating what he saw as inaction 
in what should have been a straightforward process. In particular, delays in requesting a 
police report and then further delays in responding to questions from the police. 
His policy was specifically designed for fast food delivery drivers, but due to not having a 
vehicle and indemnity for over five months hed been unable to work since his vehicle was 
stolen. This meant a significant loss of income. The continuing delay in assessing and 
settling his claim was causing him significant anxiety and distress, which also affected his 
family. He wanted Wakam to settle his claim without any further delays, as well as an 
explanation of why the process was taking so long. He also wanted an apology from Wakam 
and compensation for the inconvenience, distress and financial loss hed experienced.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Wakam hadnt fairly compensated Mr P 
for his loss of earnings, due to a two and a half month delay in requesting the police report. 
While Wakam requested a key analysis report and a police report, there were avoidable 
delays by Wakam in requesting the police report and B hadnt progressed the claim 
reasonably. So, Wakam should compensate Mr P for his loss of earnings.
Wakam initially accepted the investigators view and said they would pay Mr P for loss of 
earnings. However, the claim handling company (C) didnt accept the investigators view. 
They didnt think there was any delay in progressing the key analysis, with a period of four 
weeks between instruction and receipt of the key analysis report. On the police report, they 
referred to publicly available information on the police website indicating requests for reports 
should allow at least 12 weeks before being made (to allow time for the police investigation 
and any court proceedings). They also said the report was received just over three months 
from it being initially requested (and a further nine days for the police to send a code to 
access the report). And theyd communicated with the police several times during the 
process. So, they didnt think theyd delayed matters.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said little tangible progress was made on his claim between January 2023 and 
June 2023, when Wakam accepted his claim and made an offer for the total loss of his 
vehicle (which he subsequently accepted, the claim being settled in July 2023). So, he 
thought he should be compensated for seven months loss of earnings, rather than the two 
and a half months recommended by the investigator.
Because Wakam and their claim handling company expressed different opinions on the 
investigators view, and Mr P also disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
In my findings, I concluded there were avoidable delays in obtaining the police report, 
particularly given the known likely elapsed time for it to be received. There were points at 
which Wakam were awaiting a response from the police, so I couldnt hold Wakam 
responsible for any consequential delays.
I then considered the delays that could reasonably be attributed to Wakam and were 
avoidable. I thought a total of six weeks delay were due to Wakam and were avoidable. 
Based on this, to put things right, I concluded Wakam should compensate Mr P for six weeks 
of lost earnings (one week at the end of November and five weeks from the middle of 
December to the middle of January).Because I reached a different conclusion to that of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further, as set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Wakam have acted fairly towards Mr P.
As set out earlier, this decision only covers the time from the theft of Mr Ps vehicle to 
Wakams response in February 2023. It doesnt cover events from that point through to the 
settlement of the claim in July 2023, as they havent been the subject of a complaint to 
Wakam nor a response from them. 
The key issue in Mr Ps complaint is the time taken by Wakam assessing Mr Ps claim for the 
theft of his vehicle. Mr P says Wakam took too long assessing the claim, in particular the 
time taken for them to request a police report and for it to be received and accessed. Without 
his vehicle, Mr P says he wasnt able to work as a fast food delivery driver. Wakams claim 
handling company say they didnt delay matters.
In considering this issue, Ive looked carefully at the sequence of events, and the associated 
evidence and information provided by Wakam and by Mr P. Ive first noted Wakam 
appointed C and CG to, respectively, handle the claim and investigate the circumstances. 
Given the circumstances of the theft, I dont think this unreasonable. And CGs interview took 
place within a couple of weeks of the theft. I also dont think it unreasonable for CG to 
request a key analysis, which meant time taken while the request was progressed, and a 
report produced. And then time to finalise CGs report, before a request for the police report 
was made in mid-November 2022. 
However, after that point there were delays due to Wakam responding to the police request 
for a form to be filled in (one week); the form having to be signed manually (as the police 
wouldnt accept a digital signature); and different parts of the form needing to be completed. 
Wakam say slight delays were caused by the police asking for the form to be signed 
manually. I accept this caused a delay, but it then took more than a month (from December 
2022 to January 2023) for Wakam to respond to the police request for another part of the 
form to be completed. And then a further delay for the relevant payment to be made for the 
report. After that point, the police report was received in late February 2023 (a month later).
In respect of the delay between December 2022 and January 2023, C say it included 
Christmas and New Year and they have a standard four-week reminder for the file handler to 
review. C also say police reports were taking on average eight to ten weeks to be received. 
That being the case, Im not persuaded the four week delay was unavoidable and the form 
should have been returned much sooner than it was  particularly given the impending 
Christmas and New Year period. 
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded there were avoidable delays in obtaining the 
police report, particularly given the known likely elapsed time for it to be received. Looking at 
the sequence of events, there were points at which Wakam were awaiting a response from 
the police. Its not in my remit to consider the time taken by the police to respond to Wakam, 
or their further requests about signature of the form; completion of the form; or payment for 
its release. So, I cant hold Wakam responsible for any consequential delays.
Ive thought carefully about the delays that can reasonably be attributed to Wakam and 
which I think were avoidable. I think a total of six weeks delay were due to Wakam and 
should have been avoidable. Based on this, to put things right, Wakam should compensate 
Mr P for six weeks of lost earnings (one week at the end of November and five weeks from 
the middle of December to the middle of January).My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
intend to require Wakam to:
Compensate Mr P for six weeks of lost earnings (one week at the end of November 
and five weeks from the middle of December to the middle of January).
Mr P responded to say he reluctantly accepted the provisional decision, because of the more 
limited period that it covered.
Wakam responded to say they appreciated there were delays, some of which were beyond 
their control. The only time they would request a police report was if it was requested by their 
investigator. Wakam accepted the report took time to get to them, but the delays were 
beyond their control. While making this point, they said they would be willing to pay Mr P four 
weeks loss of earnings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Wakam have acted fairly towards Mr P.
Ive considered the response from Wakam. While they accept there were delays, they say 
they were outside their control. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, I 
distinguished between delays I thought were due to Wakam, principally over the Christmas 
and New Year period, and those where the delay was due to awaiting a response from the 
police. While Wakam have said the delays were outside their control  and theyve offered to 
pay Mr P for four weeks of lost earnings  they havent provided any substantive arguments 
or evidence to challenge my conclusions. So, I havent changed my view on delays due to 
Wakam and my conclusion they should compensate Mr P for six weeks of lost earnings.
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I require 
Wakam to:
Compensate Mr P for six weeks of lost earnings (one week at the end of November 
and five weeks from the middle of December to the middle of January).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman