DRN-1372724
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the fees and charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied to 
his current account. Hes said hes paid £1800 in charges and this caused financial distress. 
What happened
Mr B complained to Santander in April 2019. Santander didnt agree with Mr Bs complaint. It 
said the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and it wasnt aware Mr B was in financial difficulty. Mr B responded to say the mere fact of 
being charged ought to have made his financial difficulty apparent. As Santander didnt 
change its view on the complaint, Mr B asked us to look at his case.
Mr Bs complaint was then looked at by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Santander had done anything wrong as Mr B hadnt said he was in financial difficulty. So he 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the investigator and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Santander charged in its tariffs of fees and charges over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately a banks 
tariff of fees and charges as well as how much it charges for services is a commercial 
decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at the tariff set for the fees and charges, Santander wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied these fees and charges to Mr Bs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Santander didnt treat Mr B fairly and reasonably. In other words Ive 
considered whether there were periods where Santander continued charging Mr B even 
though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case.
Mr B has referred to financial difficulty. But he hasnt made reference to any particular period 
of time where he thinks Santander should have acted. Mr B has instead simply referred to all 
the charges hes paid and said these should be refunded. In his follow- up correspondence 
to Santanders response to his complaint he said he wouldnt have had to pay charges if he 
hadnt been in financial difficulty.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But I wasnt to start by saying that it doesnt 
automatically follow Mr B must have been in financial difficulty for him to have been charged 
in the first place. Financial difficulty is just one of the possible reasons why a consumer 
might not have the available funds in their account in order for a direct debit to be paid. As 
this is the case, Ive looked at whether there were any periods where Santander ought to 
have realised that Mr B may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Although some may argue its not directly relevant here (which I dont necessarily agree with 
and I make no finding on whether this is the case), in Section 1.3.1G of the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out a list of 
circumstances which if a firm was aware, or ought to have been aware of, may indicate that 
a consumer is in financial difficulty. As this is guidance on financial difficulty issued by the 
regulator, I do consider it is of some use here even though Mr M doesnt appear to have 
been provided with credit, whether formally or informally.
CONC 1.3.1G says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
Having carefully looked through Mr Bs statements throughout the period concerned I cant 
see that Santander ought to have been aware that any of the above matters may have been 
present in Mr Bs financial circumstances. 
Mr B may argue his returned direct debits were in themselves an indication he had an 
inability to meet repayments out of disposable income. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr B expenditure, nonetheless I cant reasonably say 
that Santander ought to have realised Mr Bs missed direct debit payments were an 
indication he may have been suffering financial difficulty. I say this because there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions on his 
account. Ive also seen cash withdrawals from the account too. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves mean that Mr B wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. And of course its possible the cash withdrawals were being used to pay for 
essentials. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted Santander to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr B, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander 
to proceed with the charges. And I dont think Santander unfairly charged Mr B in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have been experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive also looked at what Santander did when it was contacted by Mr B. From what Ive seen 
Mr B contacted Santander in March 2018. I dont know what was discussed as there are 
limited notes from this time. The notes suggest Mr B was given a refund of some charges as 
a gesture of goodwill. Its possible this refund was provided after Mr B explained that he was 
in financial difficulty. But given Mr B said that he didnt know he had to tell Santander this 
until 2019, Im afraid that I cant reasonably say its more likely than not this is the case. 
However I can see that Mr B called Santander to explain he was experiencing difficulty in 
June/July 2019. And at this point Santander refunded some of Mr Bs charges. Mr Bs 
account then returned to credit and I can see that he had a relatively healthy credit balance 
in some of the months following this. So it seems to me that Santander did treat Mr B fairly 
when it was notified of his financial difficulty and gave him an opportunity to take steps to 
ensure he wouldnt be charged further. As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to 
refund any of the other charges.
Finally Ive seen what Mr B has said about asking Santander for an overdraft. But a bank is 
required to ensure that a consumer can afford to repay an overdraft within a reasonable 
period and potentially on demand before providing one. I dont know if Mr B did make a 
formal application for an overdraft but if he believes that Santander unfairly declined to 
provide him with one then this is a matter hell need to take up with Santander in the first 
instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman