DRN-1100421
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
MBNA Limited (MBNA).
What happened
Mr H took out a credit card in January 1998. Around four years later after the credit card was 
agreed and Mr H had been using it he was sold a PPI policy over the phone by MBNA. 
The policy cost 0.69p per £100 of the balance on Mr Hs credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 3% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr H was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the sales script 
showed the policy was optional and that it provided a useful benefit. 
Mr H disagreed. He says he didnt know the policy was optional and didnt know the cost.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
MBNA had to make it clear to Mr H he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose to 
take it. The policy was sold over the phone a few years after Mr Hs credit card account was 
opened. I dont know exactly what was discussed with Mr H at the time he was sold the 
policy but Ive seen a copy of his original credit card application where he was given the 
option to select to take PPI or decline it. Mr H didnt select to take PPI on the application. 
But because PPI was applied to Mr Hs account a few years after his credit card account 
was opened and used and he was given the option to take PPI on his credit card application 
and chose not to, I think he wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the 
credit card. And I think PPI was likely applied to his account because following a phone call 
with MBNA he chose to take it  I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. 
I dont think MBNA advised Mr H to take PPI. What this means is that MBNA didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr H, it just gave him information about PPI. This information needed to 
be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.I dont know if MBNA did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if MBNA 
did give all the information Mr H needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know about 
MBNA policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr H says he was entitled to some sick pay but had no other 
means of making his repayments if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if 
he lost his job. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and helped him in 
these situations, so I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put him off 
buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr H and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr H on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy was sold, MBNA expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about 
that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman