DRN-2602093
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr D had had a fee-free bank account with Lloyds. This was changed into a Gold PBA 
account, probably in 1999. In 1999 the Gold account cost £8 a month, and its benefits 
included worldwide travel insurance, Sentinel card protection, a preferential loan rate and the 
waiving of some overdraft fees. (In later years other insurance benefits were added, such as 
breakdown insurance and mobile phone insurance.)
Mr D said he was aware of the charges a few months after they started. Hes said he wasnt 
though aware he was paying for insurance benefits until 2019. He said that, in the meantime, 
he has held separate insurances and so paid twice for these.
Our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr D 
didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely Lloyds changed the account to a Gold PBA with Mr Ds knowledge and 
agreement. I can see that around the time of the likely start of the PBA, Mr D also took out 
a Gold loan, which was only available with the Gold PBA. I think its likely that the 
preferential loan rate (and possibly the reduced charges for overdrafts) was attractive to 
Mr D. And hes said he became aware of the charges soon after, and so I think its likely 
he would have challenged this if he hadnt agreed to it (whether or not he was aware that 
there was an insurance benefit attached to it).  Im also conscious that this all happened 
over 20 years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr D didnt remembered everything that 
happened  so it wouldnt now be fair for me to put much weight on this. And, against this, 
I dont have any firm evidence that the PBA was added without Mr Ds consent or 
knowledge. So, overall, I cant fairly conclude it was mis-sold in this way. 
Lloyds probably recommended the PBA to Mr D, meaning it needed to assess his 
circumstances and check that the PBA was appropriate for him. But I think it would have 
been. This is because of the banking benefits Ive mentioned, which may by themselves 
have made it suited to his needs; but also because hes said he travelled abroad 
sometimes, so the main insurance benefit of travel insurance would have been useful to 
him. So, I also cant say the PBA was mis-sold on the grounds of it being an inappropriate 
recommendation by Lloyds. 
Mr D has said he wasnt aware of the insurance benefits, and over the years took out 
unnecessary alternative insurance. Ive seen samples of information that Lloyds produced 
at the time, describing the Gold account for customers. However, I cant say what 
information he was actually given early on in the life of the Gold account  and Lloyds isnt 
usually obliged to keep records going back that far. But I think its likely Lloyds did, from 
2014, send annual statements describing the benefits, and made reasonable efforts to 
keep him informed. So I cant say it acted wrongly in that way either. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman