DRN-3878912
The complaint
Mr As complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined his critical illness 
claim after he suffered a heart attack.
What happened
In 2010, Mr A bought a life insurance policy, with critical illness included.  The policy remains 
in force.
In spring 2022, Mr A sadly suffered a heart attack.  So he made a claim on the critical illness 
benefit included in the policy.
Aviva assessed the claim but declined it.  They explained to Mr A theyd obtained copies of 
his medical records to help them assess the claim.  Having considered these, Aviva 
concluded Mr A hadnt met the policy definition of a heart attack  which was:
Death of heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
 New characteristic electrocardiographic changes.
 The characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins recorded at the following levels or 
higher:
- Troponin T > 1.0 ng/ml
- AccuTn > 0.5ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other Troponin I methods.
Aviva said Mr As highest Troponin reading was 18 ng/L  which equates to 0.018 ng/ml.
Mr A appealed Avivas decision.  Aviva considered the appeal but didnt change their 
position.   Nor were they persuaded to change by an email Mr As GP sent them shortly after 
theyd considered the appeal.
Mr A remained dissatisfied with Avivas conclusion and brought his complaint to our service.  
He told us he was still struggling to recover from his heart attack.  And he thought Aviva 
should consider all his circumstances.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  He was satisfied that Mr As troponin levels needed to be over a certain level to 
meet the policy criteria.  They werent  so he couldnt say Aviva had been unfair in declining 
the claim.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.  I know this will be upsetting and Im 
sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons why Ive reached that decision.
I understand Mr As position.  Theres no dispute he had a heart attack last year.  Im sorry to 
learn hes struggled to recover from that.  And I understand that worrying about how hell 
manage his finances will put a further strain on him.
But I can only say Aviva should do something more to resolve Mr As complaint if Im 
satisfied theyve not dealt with his claim fairly, in line with the policy terms.
Before I consider that, Ive noted some inconsistency in the units used to record and/or refer 
to troponin levels, which I think may have led to confusion.  The policy refers to nanograms 
per millilitre (ng/ml), whereas Mr As doctors have records levels using nanograms per litre 
(ng/L).  As Ive mentioned above, Mr As highest recorded level was 18 ng/L or  to use the 
same units as the policy  0.018 ng/ml.  Alternatively, you can say Mr As level was 18 ng/L 
when  using this unit  the policy requires a level of at least 1000 ng/L. 
I also think some confusion about the policy terms may exist, because Mr A said, in his first 
complaint letter to us that the policy document didnt contain any figures for troponin levels.  
And he and Aviva sent us different policy documents.
Ive considered both versions.  Having done that, Im satisfied the version provided by Aviva 
is the one applicable to Mr As claim because it dates from October 2009  just a few months 
before Mr A bought his policy.  On the other hand, the version Mr A sent us is dated after his 
policy purchase.  So, while hes correct about the different content, Im satisfied those terms 
arent what apply to this claim.
I wrote to Mr A to let him know this and invited him to comment before I made my final 
decision.  Hes not sent us anything in reply.  So I assume he understands why I think the 
2009 terms are the right ones to refer to.
Ive studied the 2009 terms.  The relevant one appears in the policy as quoted above.  The 
heading to that term is Heart Attack - of specified severity.
Looking at this term in its entirety, Im satisfied it makes clear that not all heart attacks are 
covered.  And all the medical records Ive seen show that, by the measure applied under the 
policy, Mr As heart attack wasnt severe enough to be covered.  Ive no wish to make light of 
the impact Mr As heart attack has had on him, but I cant say Aviva shouldnt apply their 
terms to his claim.  Theyve done that.  I dont think they need to do any more to resolve     
Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman