DRN-2588044
The complaint
Mr L says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to him. He says he 
already had some personal and financial problems which meant that he couldnt sustainably 
repay the loan. He thought that Lending Stream shouldve made better checks and not lent 
to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Lending Stream provided to Mr L on 
25 December 2020. Mr L borrowed £300 and he was due to make six monthly repayments 
of around £100. Mr L was unable to fully repay the loan and I understand it has been passed 
to a third-party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the checks Lending Stream had 
made were proportionate and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He provided some detail about the other 
lending he had in the past. He said that this demonstrated that he couldnt sustainably repay 
the Lending Stream loan. He reiterated that Lending Stream shouldve seen this and not lent 
to him. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr L could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there 
may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr L provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr L said he had a monthly income of £1,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings of just 
under £500. So, it wouldve seemed reasonable for Lending Stream to initially think that the 
loan repayments were affordable for Mr L. 
The checks a business does before lending should be proportionate at the time of 
application. What this means in practice is that at an early point in the lending relationship 
Lending Stream may not need to make in depth checks. I think this applies here, given this 
was Mr Ls first loan application and the amounts borrowed seemed reasonable compared to 
what Mr L told it about his financial situation. So, I dont think Lending Stream needed to look 
into Mr Ls financial circumstances in a great deal of detail as it was a new lending 
relationship.
And in any event whilst I can see that Mr L had a significant amount of other short term 
lending in the past. I havent seen that he had any outstanding at the time he took the loan 
with Lending Stream. And the credit checks Lending Stream did reflected this, in that they 
didnt show that Mr L had any current problems managing his money. 
I havent seen any other information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr L mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr L circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for this loan 
was proportionate. So, I think Lending Streams decisions to lend were reasonable and Im 
not upholding Mr Ls complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman