DRN-1822383
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Bank Of Ireland (UK) Plc (Post Office) couldn't complete a balance 
transfer on her credit card account with it.
What happened
The Post Office was offering 0% interest on balance transfers, so Mrs W attempted to 
transfer the balance she had with another credit card provider T onto her Post Office credit 
card account.
The balance transfer didn't go ahead and after trying on three occasions and discussing this 
with the Post Office, Mrs W took out a loan to cover the credit card debt. The Post Office 
said that it wouldn't be able to do the balance transfer and explained that it wasn't doing 
balance transfers with T at this time because T wouldn't accept its payments.
Mrs W raised a complaint with both the Post Office and T. The Post Office confirmed that it 
had checked with T if the details it was using to make the payment were correct  and it had 
confirmed they were. So it said it couldn't do anything more at this time and wouldn't be 
accepting balance transfers from this credit card provider. However it said it hadn't provided 
the level of service it should have when it was dealing with the transfer, as it had asked 
Mrs W for personal information relating to her other credit card. So it awarded her £50 for 
this, which she accepted.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. She said that both the Post Office and T had 
responded effectively blaming each other. So she wanted to understand who was 
responsible and receive compensation, as well as be reimbursed for the interest she was 
now having to pay on the loan (rather than the 0% interest rate she shouldve had on the 
credit card).
Our investigators final view on the case was that the Post Office hadn't done anything 
wrong. He explained that in the second call Mrs W had with the Post Office, she was told 
that they weren't doing balance transfers to T at this time. So he felt she was made aware of 
this before she attempted to transfer the balance again. He accepted her frustration, but 
considered that the Post Office had done all it could  as it had checked the details it was 
using and hed looked at these and confirmed them to be correct. And he said he wasn't 
awarding any compensation  including money towards the interest on her loan, as he 
considered the Post Office hadn't done anything wrong it was her choice to take the loan 
out.
Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision. She explained T had said that the Post Office 
was using the wrong information to make the payment. So she was holding it responsible 
and didn't accept the view. So the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate Mrs Ws frustration that she hasn't been able to take advantage of the 0% 
balance transfer offer. And I understand that this is made more frustrating when it isn't clear 
who or what is responsible for this problem. In this decision I am only looking at the actions 
of the Post Office.
Ive reviewed the details the Post Office has on file for T. And looked at the details T says 
should be used. As our investigator set out, these details do match. I appreciate T has said 
the wrong sort code has been used by the Post Office, but the screenshot Ive seen does 
show the correct sort code being used. The Post Office has also explained it tried another 
account number and sort code combination after a phone call with T, but this also didn't 
work. On that basis, I cant say the Post Office has done anything wrong. Its checked the 
right details are being used and has tried to make the transfer. And the details Ive seen on 
its internal records do match what T has said  and dont match the incorrect sort code its 
been reported it used.
From listening to the calls, I also agree that Mrs W was made aware over the phone that a 
balance transfer between the Post Office and T wasn't possible at this time. So from this 
point she knew the transfer wasn't possible. I understand why she may have wanted to try 
the transfer again to be sure, but I cant say the inconvenience this caused is something the 
Post Office should compensate her for. 
As I dont consider the Post Office has done anything wrong, Im not asking it to award 
Mrs W any compensation. And so Im also not asking it to cover the greater interest rate 
shes paying on the loan in comparison to the rate if the balance transfer had been possible.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman