DRN-1569298
Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided a 
number of instalment loans to him.                           
Background
This complaint is about thirty-eight high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr B between August 2016 and February 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 5 to 38. Sunny didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided Mr B with 5. I say this because by this stage Mr B was exhibiting a pattern of taking out further loans 
shortly after, or even before repaying, previous ones. For example, loan 5 was provided 
while loans 3 and 4 were outstanding and loan 3 was taken on the day that loan 2 was 
repaid. In my view, Mr Bs pattern of borrowing was consistent with someone who was in 
financial difficulty rather than to cover a short term need.
Sunny continued lending to Mr B even when this pattern was repeated - indeed until he 
ended up defaulting on his last four loans - in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 34;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loans 35 to 38 from the outset. The 
payments Mr B made  either to Sunny or any third-party debt purchaser - should 
then be deducted from the new starting balances. If after all adjustments have been 
made outstanding balances remain, Sunny can deduct this from what it now needs to 
pay Mr B if it owns the debt or buys it back. Sunny shouldnt make a deduction if it 
doesnt own any debt or buy it back;
 
the number of loans provided means that any information recorded about loans 6 to 
38 is adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman