DRN-3549342
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Gresham Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim he made for storm damage under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P reported damage to a gable wall to his insurer, Gresham following a 
storm. Mr P arranged for temporary repairs to be carried out to make safe his home. 
Gresham appointed a Surveyor to inspect the damage. The Surveyor couldnt identify a 
cause of damage  so Gresham didnt accept Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P appointed a Structural Engineer and provided a report on their findings to Gresham. 
Gresham appointed a Chartered Loss Adjuster (LA) to report on the findings of the Surveyor 
and the Structural Engineer. 
The LA concluded that from online images since 2016 they showed the gable above the 
front bay had been separating, along with at least the first vertical row of tiles on the roof 
slopes and ridge, for a number of years. The LA concluded that storm conditions had 
highlighted an already weakened structure. So Gresham maintained its decision to reject the 
claim. 
Gresham had caused a delay of two months in reviewing the Structural Engineers report. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid Mr P £200 compensation. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought Gresham 
had acted reasonably. 
Mr P didnt agree and provided a further opinion from the Structural Engineer. In summary 
the Engineer says the online images Gresham has relied on to show deterioration of the roof 
over the years arent clear enough. He says he has shown that Greshams decision isnt 
correct - as only storm conditions could have caused the damage.
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for us to determine a claim  but to look at whether an insurer reached its decision to 
decline a claim in a reasonable way and in line with the policy terms. 
Gresham, like most insurers, provides cover for insured perils such as storm, flood or fire. It 
excludes cover for damage caused over time, through wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration. It is for a customer to prove their claim. 
As there was a dispute as to what caused the damage, Gresham appointed an LA to give an 
opinion on the findings of the Surveyor appointed by Gresham and the Structural Engineer 
appointed by Mr P. 
As the gable wall had collapsed during the storm, the area had been boarded up and so 
wasnt visible for inspection to any of the experts involved in Mr Ps claim. Debris from the 
collapsed wall was visible on Mr Ps front garden and the Surveyor took photos of this. 
We ask three questions when considering a claim for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
It isnt in dispute that storm conditions occurred, so the answer to the first question is yes. 
I think the damage caused is consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
Ive carefully considered the reasons provided by the Structural Engineer as to why he is of 
the view that only storm conditions could have caused the damage. He says the property 
was well maintained, the structure wasnt unusual, and showed no signs of age related 
decay. He said that many of the properties in the area including the adjoining property were 
built of the same construction  he wasnt aware of any similar properties having had a 
collapsed gable wall in his twenty years of knowledge and working in the area. 
The LA reviewed historic images online of the property going back several years. 
It said that from images from a particular angle, this showed no signs of wear and tear. But 
from a different angle, images showed separation along tiles and the ridge towards the front 
of the bay roof (which collapsed) as far back as 2016. The LA also commented that if there 
was no underlying weakness to Mr Ps roof, it would expect to see damage to the adjoining 
property from the storm as it had an identical gable wall feature. 
I think the images are very clear, particularly the images from October 2020 and March 2021 
within the LAs report. So I cant agree with the Structural Engineers comment that the 
images are of poor quality and the pixels - when the images are increased - provides 
inaccurate or distorted images. 
So while I think both the Structural Engineer and LA have provided reasoned arguments as 
to the cause of damage, I think the historic images showing the separation of the roof tiles 
and ridge over the years carries more weight overall. I think they show a gradual 
deterioration of the roof. For this reason, I think Greshams decision to decline the claim was 
reached reasonably and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that 
Im not upholding his complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman