DRN-4357325
The complaint
Mr A says Zurich Insurance PLC and its agent provided poor service by not confirming he 
was covered by one of its group commercial vehicle insurance policies. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident with a cyclist in November 2021 when working as an 
independent contractor for firm N. Firm N had arranged cover with Zurich for its drivers 
when delivering items on its behalf. Mr A asked firm N for evidence of the policy, but it 
wouldnt assist him. It said he should contact Zurich. Mr A didnt want to make a claim on the 
policy, as the damage to his vehicle was so minor, but the cyclist later made a claim. The 
police then charged Mr A for driving without insurance, as he had nothing to show he was 
insured for business purposes at the time of the accident. Later, he had to appear in court 
and incurred legal fees, as well as experiencing significant distress and inconvenience. 
Zurich told one of our investigators that Mr As complaint was against firm N, not Zurich. It 
said it couldnt assist as it had no access to firm Ns shift patterns, so it couldnt have known 
whether Mr A was delivering for firm N at the time of the accident. The complaint was then 
passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision saying I was minded to uphold it. 
I thought that  had Mr A made a claim on the policy - Zurich would have had to liaise with 
firm N about his working arrangements. So it could also have done so in terms of his request 
for proof of his cover with it. I said Mr A had spent months worrying about the prospect of a 
fine, points on his licence and possible disqualification, when the police had told him theyd 
drop the charge if he could show he was insured. I thought it was reasonable for Mr A to pay 
for legal assistance. His lawyer was able to persuade the judge that Mr A was covered by 
the arrangement between firm N and Zurich. But I thought the impact on Mr A of the charge 
and its aftermath was still substantial, so I said I was minded to require Zurich to refund his 
legal fees and pay him £500 for distress and inconvenience.  
Mr A accepted my provisional view. Zurich said it had no record of being contacted about the 
accident at the time or being asked by Mr A for evidence of cover. It said we had notified it of 
the issue in February 2023. I issued a second provisional decision along the following lines:
I said my understanding was that Mr A had contacted Zurich in 2022. But if Zurich 
was only told in February 2023 about his need for evidence of cover, it couldnt 
have assisted him at the time, as the hearing was in 2022. On the other hand, firm 
N was given every chance to assist Mr A at the time - and had failed to do so.
I pointed out that firm N says its role is as an insurance intermediary for Zurich. The 
Independent Contractor Terms of Service provided to Mr A say that its for a 
contractor / driver to contact the insurer directly in the event of a claim. But Mr A 
wasnt making a claim. Firm N should have been able to provide the evidence of 
cover he needed  and if it couldnt, I thought it should have contacted Zurich. 
In the circumstances, I said I thought it was reasonable to treat firm N as Zurichs 
agent. Firm N provided very poor service to Mr A, with distressing results for him, so 
I was minded to say it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to refund Mr As legal 
costs and pay him £500 for distress and inconvenience.  
In response, Mr A said he had contacted Zurich in 2022 by phone (after firm N had refused 
to help and had directed him to Zurich). He accepted my provisional findings. Zurich said 
firm N was its policy holder / customer, not an insurance intermediary. So it didnt think it 
was fair for it to be held responsible for firm Ns dealings.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firm Ns documents say its contractors insurance cover with Zurich has been arranged by it 
on a non-advised basis and that its authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as 
an insurance intermediary. Firm N also says it will make the certificate of insurance and all 
other policy documents available to its contractors. So I think firm N hold itself out as an 
insurance intermediary / agent for Zurich and acts in that capacity for its contractors 
(including Mr A) partly by undertaking to provide Zurichs insurance documents to them. 
Under the arrangement it has with firm N, Zurich should be aware of the information firm N 
provides to its contractors about Zurichs cover and about the way it has agreed to operate. I 
appreciate that theres no evidence - other than Mr As account - that Zurich was contacted 
directly for documents. But theres strong evidence that firm N was asked for them and 
declined to assist. Taking everything into account, I think firm N was acting as Zurichs 
intermediary / agent, and that its fair and reasonable to treat it as Zurichs agent. So I 
remain of the view that its fair and reasonable to hold Zurich responsible for firm Ns failings. 
Consequently, I think it should refund Mr As legal charges and pay him £500 compensation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay him 
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It should also pay his legal fees (subject 
to evidence). And it should pay interest on the sums he has paid towards the legal fees to 
date, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement. If Zurich thinks it should deduct tax from the interest, it should tell Mr A how 
much has been deducted, so he can reclaim it from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman