DRN-2623744
The complaint
Mr B complained because Nationwide Building Society:
- recorded a marker against his name on the CIFAS anti-fraud database;
- closed his newly-opened accounts without notice;
- required him to provide photographic ID when hed already taken it to a branch which 
had scanned it in; and
- then told him to email his photographic ID, even though Nationwide believed his 
identity had been impersonated, which he said wasnt secure.
 
What happened
 On 23 April 2019, Mr B applied online to switch his current account from another bank to 
Nationwide. His daughter had referred him, because of the promise of £100 for both of them 
for the recommendation. During the process, the system invited Mr B to apply for a credit 
card as well, which he did. Mr Bs applications were both approved online. The same day, 
Nationwide emailed Mr B and asked him to provide evidence of his identity. 
The next day, 24 April, Mr B went to a branch with his passport and driving licence. The 
branch scanned in the information, and the same day Nationwide emailed to confirm Mr Bs 
application to switch had been accepted.
But on 26 April, Mr B received a letter from Nationwide, dated 24 April. This said Nationwide 
had declined Mr Bs applications because theyd received information that someone had 
impersonated him.
Mr B rang Nationwide straightaway about the letter. The call handler put him on hold and 
spoke to Nationwides financial crime unit. She told Mr B that hed have to go to a branch 
with photographic ID.  Mr B pointed out that hed already done that, and the branch had 
scanned in the information. He also asked what had happened to make Nationwide think 
another person had obtained his details, and also asked about his application. The call 
handler said Mr B would have to make another application, and wouldnt let Mr B speak to 
the financial crime unit direct. 
The call handler put Mr B on hold again and checked again with the financial crime unit. She 
told Mr B that Nationwide couldnt tell Mr B what had triggered it because that would disclose 
Nationwides checks. Mr B pointed out that this was worrying for him, because he didnt 
know what had caused the issue. And he was concerned that the information on CIFAS 
might cause problems for him. 
The call handler also told Mr B that the branch hadnt sent on Mr Bs ID, which it had 
scanned. She asked him to send his photographic ID by email to the relevant department. 
Mr B queried how Nationwide had processed his data, and said he wanted to make a subject 
access request. The call handler refused, saying Mr B could only make the request in the 
same email when he sent in his photographic ID. Mr B said he wanted to know that the 
process used had been proper. The call handler said I understand you keep telling me the 
same thing and said she couldnt give him any more information.
Mr B said hed contact the other department as the call handler had told him to, but he also 
wanted to put in a formal complaint straightaway. The call handler put Mr B on hold for a 
third time, and then filled in the complaint form. Mr B said he wanted to be sure that 
Nationwides process had been proper and just, and that his information had been 
processed properly. He pointed out that hed initially been asked to take his ID into a branch 
for security reasons. Hed done this  but was now being told he had to email it. As well as 
having already provided this once, it was inconsistent and email wasnt a secure or proper 
way of doing it.  Mr B pointed out that the situation was inconvenient and distressing.
Mr B followed up the phone call with a complaint letter the same day. This set out that:
Nationwide had shown inadequate process when it asked him to submit his ID and personal 
information by email, especially when it suspected his ID had been compromised;
The call handler had told him that the reason the financial crime department hadnt received 
the scanned ID, which hed provided on 224 April, was that the branch hadnt emailed it. The 
use of insecure email for both of these jeopardised Mr Bs data;
Nationwides letter said The information we have received suggests that your details may 
have been used by another person to impersonate you. We have made the decision to 
decline your application. Mr B said he was disappointed Nationwide had failed to 
investigate or substantiate this suspicion. And he pointed out that CIFASs leaflet, which 
Nationwide had provided, said that if a CIFAS record is returned during checks, member 
organisations must not simply reject an applicationand they are required to carry out 
further investigation that the personal data provided on the application is correct. 
Nationwide had failed to give Mr B an opportunity to provide clarification. Mr B had 
discovered that Nationwide had recorded the CIFAS marker on the day it had written to him, 
24 April;
Mr B said hed already experienced adverse effects of this. Hed had a card transaction with 
his other bank declined, needing further verification. And when hed made a data subject 
request to CIFAS to find out about the marker, his identity authentication had been rejected.
 
In its final response letter to Mr B on 23 May, Nationwide said that it understood that Mr Bs 
complaint was that his application had been declined and hed received a letter saying 
Nationwide needed to see ID. It also understood that Mr B was unhappy that Nationwide had 
left a mark on Mr Bs credit (sic) file. 
This letter doesnt tally with the complaint points which Mr B actually made on the phone call, 
or in his complaint letter. However, the essence of Nationwides final response was that it 
had acted correctly because there had been concerns about impersonation, and it had 
marked Mr Bs credit (sic) file as a security precaution. It said it had acted correctly in 
declining Mr Bs application.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He set out what had happened, and said 
Nationwide had caused him severe undue distress. It had implied there were problems with 
his financial standing, and hed had to explain to his daughter why his application had been 
rejected. The marker with CIFAS had impacted his access to financial services. Hed also 
lost time and earnings, having had to visit the branch twice to provide proof of ID, and had 
wasted significant time phoning and dealing with Nationwide. Mr B pointed out that his 
complaint wasnt about an application being declined, but about service. He wanted to have 
the information on which Nationwide had based its decision, and why it had thought 
someone had impersonated him. He also asked for compensation.Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said he couldnt provide the evidence 
why Nationwide had put the marker against Mr Bs name, but he was satisfied that it had 
followed the correct procedures. He said the CIFAS marker was for protective purposes and 
had no impact on Mr Bs credit file. The investigator also said that Nationwide was entitled to 
close an account under the terms and conditions. He said that Nationwide had said that as it 
had been able to verify Mr Bs identity, hed be accepted if he chose to apply again.
Mr B remained unhappy both with Nationwides response and the investigators conclusions. 
He said Nationwide hadnt acted with due diligence. It could have rejected the application, 
but hadnt done. And it could have verified evidence of his identity as part of the application 
process, but hadnt done this properly. By placing the marker, Nationwide had informed 
other financial service providers while in the process of verifying his identity evidence. 
Mr B also disagreed because the investigator had said he hadnt been affected, when he 
had been. Mr B accepted that Nationwides terms and conditions allowed it to close an 
account, but he didnt agree that Nationwide could do this based on some misinformation. 
So Mr B asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Nationwide for much more information, including copies of the applications; copies of 
all emails and letters; the phone call recording on 26 April and any other phone calls; why 
the final response referred to Mr Bs credit file when it was a CIFAS marker which had been 
placed; and the full reason why Nationwide had concluded that someone was impersonating 
Mr B. Nationwide provided some of this, and I used the phone recording to set out the full 
details of this important call above. Nationwide said it did not retain copies of the 
correspondence, so I took Mr Bs account of what happened as the most likely version of 
what happened here.
Whether Nationwide was right to place a CIFAS protective marker against Mr Bs name
Impersonation and identity fraud are serious issues, as both Nationwide and Mr B agreed. 
And if someone has been impersonated, its important that there is the protection of a CIFAS 
marker to prevent unauthorised access to the genuine persons finances. This protects the 
genuine consumer, in this case Mr B.
So Nationwide was right to take the threat seriously.  In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I couldnt disclose the evidence which Nationwide said led it to believe Mr B had been 
impersonated. I wasnt persuaded by some of the reasons Nationwide gave, but some might 
have led to concerns. And I couldnt know the full reasons behind Nationwides internal 
computer system which would have contained complex algorithms. So on balance I 
accepted that Nationwide probably had valid concerns to justify a protective marker for Mr B. 
I bore in mind that protective markers are to protect customers, so wouldnt necessarily have 
been a detriment to him, if Nationwide had dealt with Mr B properly in doing so.
Closure of Mr Bs accounts
Sections 74 to 78 of the terms and conditions of Mr Bs current account, and section 10 of 
the terms and conditions of his credit card, set out when Nationwide can close an account 
immediately. The wording is slightly different for the two products. The current account wording referred to exceptional circumstances and said this might 
include where you have carried out (or we reasonably suspect you have carried out) illegal 
or fraudulent activity on the account. 
The credit card wording referred to if we reasonably believe it is necessary to prevent fraud 
or unauthorised access.
I accepted that Nationwide had concerns that Mr B might have been impersonated. So it was 
fair to register a protective marker, and to stop transactions on the new accounts. But 
Nationwide closed the accounts before conducting any investigation. What Nationwide told 
Mr B it needed was photographic ID  which in fact hed already provided to the branch two 
days earlier. 
I considered it would have been reasonable for Nationwide to have simply put a block on the 
two new accounts, and then investigated. And the problem was unlikely to have arisen 
anyway, if the scanned branch copies of Mr Bs ID had reached the records when he took 
them in on 24 April. So I found that it would have been reasonable for Nationwide not to 
have closed the accounts but simply stopped them pending investigation.
This wouldnt have prevented the worry and inconvenience from issues around the 
protective CIFAS marker, but it would have avoided the situation where the 26 April call 
handler told Mr B that hed have to apply all over again if he wanted the accounts.
Mr B had quoted CIFAS, which says that organisations mustnt simply reject an application 
but have to carry out further investigation that personal data provided is correct. But the 
CIFAS leaflet refers to situations where an organisation has checked CIFAS and found an 
existing marker. That wasnt what had happened here. But I did agree that Nationwide 
should have investigated before closing Mr Bs new accounts  because that would have 
been fair and reasonable.
Data protection
Mr Bs original complaint to Nationwide complained that it had failed to treat his information 
with due care, or to process his information with due care. He said that the practice of using 
email internally (when the branch should have emailed his scanned ID) and externally (when 
it asked him to email his ID despite having received it already) exposed him to increased risk 
of his identity being compromised.
Its not uncommon for a financial organisation to use email communication internally and 
externally  depending on the steps they may take to ensure this is secure, for example 
encryption etc. But by not reassuring Mr B and explaining what it had done and why it had to 
do it this way, it would only have added to his worries.
Nationwides customer service towards Mr Bs concerns  call handling and final response
Looking first at the 26 April phone call, I found that Mr B was very patient and measured with 
the call handler. It was entirely understandable that he was very worried and concerned. 
Hed initially been told the applications had been accepted online. Hed also promptly taken 
photographic ID to a branch. But hed then had the acceptance overturned, and even more 
worryingly had been told that there had been evidence hed been impersonated. I found that 
anyone would be worried at this.
I quite understood that Nationwide couldnt give full information about all its security 
processes to Mr B, or to any customer. No bank can disclose such information without jeopardising security, and Mr B recognised the need for security during the 26 April phone 
call. But in terms of customer service, I thought Nationwide could have been much more 
helpful here.
It was completely understandable that Mr B was worried that someone might have 
impersonated him. Nationwide didnt allege, either at the time or since, that Mr B himself had 
done anything fraudulent. So it would have been appropriate for Nationwide to be 
sympathetic and reassuring towards Mr B. That wasnt the tone of the call. And at no point 
did the call handler reassure Mr B that his data wasnt in danger or that things could be 
sorted out and put right. Nor did she seem to understand what Mr B meant when he pointed 
out that he was now being asked to send his personal data by insecure email.
Certainly the call handler set out Nationwides policies and what Mr B had to do next, and 
she referred to the fraud department when she didnt know the answer. But the tone wasnt 
helpful and it was clear she wanted to get rid of the call. I dont agree, for instance, that Mr B 
kept telling her the same thing. I consider that Mr B might not have had to make a 
complaint if this call had been properly sympathetic and explanatory.
Going on to look at Nationwides final response letter in connection to the problems here, I 
found that this failed to deal with the points which Mr B had identified in the 26 April phone 
call, or in his complaint letter. Mr B made intelligent and sensible points which Ive set out 
above, about the use of email, and lack of investigation before placing a CIFAS marker. But 
the final response letter didnt deal with any of this. Instead it justified placing a credit file 
marker against Mr B  which it hadnt done  and talked about the right to decline an 
application. I considered that the person who wrote the letter couldnt have listened to the 26 
April call recording, or read Mr Bs complaint letter to the bank.
Impact on Mr B 
Nationwide had argued that the situation was rectified in less than a week. I didnt have 
evidence about when the marker was removed, but Nationwide didnt tell Mr B that the 
marker had been removed until the final response letter dated 23 May, which was almost a 
month after it was recorded on 24 April. And the final response, as Ive set out above, 
mistakenly referred to marking Mr Bs credit file, rather than a CIFAS marking. So even this 
wouldnt necessarily have been reassuring.
In Mr Bs complaint letter to Nationwide on 26 April, he set out that there had been adverse 
effects. Hed had a card transaction declined needing further verification. And when he put in 
a subject access request to find out about CIFAS, his identity authentication had been 
rejected. So I accepted that there were practical impacts of the marker.
But I considered the greater impact was the frustration and worry which was caused by 
Nationwides poor service. Anyone would be worried to think theyd been impersonated and 
their personal data at risk. Even after Mr B had produced identification, thus proving there 
hadnt been impersonation, Nationwide didnt reassure Mr B or act kindly towards him. 
I considered that the failure in Nationwides procedures made that distress worse. The 
branch to which Mr B had promptly taken his photographic ID hadnt put this scanned 
information on Mr Bs records. The phone recording implies that the systems were such that 
branches had to email this scanned document, rather than it uploading onto Nationwides 
system. But whether it was a branch failure or a system issue, it shouldnt have been 
necessary for Nationwide to have to ask Mr B for his ID again, two days after hed already 
provided it. And its entirely understandable that Mr B would have been upset, worried and 
frustrated when Nationwide told him on 26 April that hed have to email his ID. To summarise, I considered that although Nationwide couldnt be said to have acted wrongly 
in recording a protective CIFAS marker, it did provide very poor customer service around 
this. It closed his accounts when it could have blocked them and investigated. It failed to 
transfer the scanned photographic ID which Mr B had provided at  branch as requested  
which it later said was the evidence it needed that Mr B hadnt been impersonated. Above 
all, it didnt deal kindly or helpfully with Mr B either in the 26 April phone call, or in the final 
response. And the final response bore very little resemblance to Mr Bs 26 April written 
complaint. So I considered that Nationwide should pay Mr B £300 compensation for this poor 
service.
I said that I was aware that Mr B and his daughter would have received £100 each if the 
current account switch had gone ahead. When I wrote my provisional decision, I didnt know 
whether this had been paid, as the account was opened then closed. I said that both parties 
should confirm this in their responses to my  provisional decision. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted the provisional decision. He confirmed that neither he nor his daughter had 
received the £100 each which theyd have received if the transaction had gone well. He 
asked that Nationwide should pay both of these promised amounts. 
Nationwide also accepted the provisional decision, and said it was willing to pay Mr B £300 
compensation with an additional £100 in lieu of Mr Bs referral payment. It said that CIFAS 
didnt appear to show when a marker had been removed. But it said it had conducted a 
search and there were currently no markers against Mr Bs name.
This service has spoken to Nationwide separately about Mr Bs daughters referral payment. 
So, as weve told Mr B, this decision relates just to Mr Bs complaint and his own  
compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from my original conclusions.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr B:
- £300 compensation for its very poor customer service to Mr B, which caused him 
distress and inconvenience; and 
- £100 which Mr B would have received as his share of the account-switching 
incentive. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman