DRN-1168377
Complaint
Mr Ms complained about ten high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream). He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lending Stream said. And she thought that 
Lending Stream hadnt treated Mr M unfairly when providing loans 1 to 6, or loan 10. But she 
didnt think that Lending Stream should have provided loans 7 to 9. So she partially upheld 
Mr Ms complaint and said Lending Stream needed to refund the interest and charges Mr M. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicator. But Mr M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about short term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending Stream 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, I think that what Lending 
Stream has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
 
 
Why I dont think that it was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 1 to 6, or loan 
10 to Mr MLending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after hed provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It says the information Mr M provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Lending Stream have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that there was a significant break between loan 1 being repaid and loan 2 being 
taken and loan 9 being repaid and loan 10 being taken. So Lending Stream was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that there wasnt any established pattern in Mr Ms borrowing needs 
when Mr M applied for loans 1, 2 and 10. 
The information provided does suggest that Mr M was asked to provide details of his income 
and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions 
Lending Stream asked Mr M and these were Mr Ms first loans in any respective chain or 
sequence, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on what Mr M 
was providing.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. Indeed Ive also 
seen what Mr M has provided in relation to the debts he already had elsewhere at the time 
he applied for loan 10. But its fair to say that Mr M didnt declare this to Lending Stream and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that it was aware of the information Mr Ms now provided 
us with either. 
Im also sorry to hear that Mr M was struggling financially and repaying these loans has 
proved difficult. But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. And while a pattern of Mr M taking new loans before having repaid 
previous ones was starting to emerge, in the period loans 2 to 6 were provided, I dont think 
it was established to the extent that Lending Stream ought to have realised that any further 
loans were unsustainable.  
In my view, Lending Stream reasonably relied on the information it was provided with and 
given the amount of the repayments involved Mr Ms overall loan history and the 
circumstances at the time of the applications in question, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in what Mr M 
declared or anything else it had, to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these 
loans.
So overall I dont think that it was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 1 to 6 
and loan 10. And as this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about these loans. 
Lending Stream has already agreed that it shouldnt have provided loans 7 to 9 to Mr M. It 
says it will refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on these loans, plus interest at 8% 
simple a year. What Lending Stream has already agreed to do is what wed usually tell a 
lender to do where we find that a loan or loans were unfairly provided.
Ive not seen anything in the circumstances of the case to suggest that it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from our usual approach to putting things right here. And as what 
Lending Stream has already agreed to do for loans 7 to 9 is in line with our usual approach, I 
think that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that what Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman