DRN-2419106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limited. They feel it mis-
sold them a multi-car motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a motor insurance policy with an insurer through Hastings in January 2019 for 
a year. In August that year Mr and Mrs B called Hastings as they wanted a quote for Mr B 
who was looking to shop around for cover. Hastings suggested a multicar policy and the 
change was administered and it wrote a letter confirming the amendment.
Around the time of renewal in December 2019 Hastings wrote to Mrs B to let her know that 
the insurer wouldnt offer a renewal of the multicar policy. And so, the policy would end in 
January 2020. Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Hastings about this. They said theyd 
been led to believe the multicar policy would run for 12 months from the date it was set up. 
Hastings thought that when Mr and Mrs B rang to take out the policy, it couldve been clearer 
about the term of the policy and the fact there wasnt a cooling off period when it said there 
was. It offered Mr and Mrs B £50 by way of an apology for the lack of information it provided. 
But Mr and Mrs B didnt think that was enough, they felt Hastings should refund the full 
premium cost of adding Mr B on to the policy. So they complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. Although he 
accepted that there appeared to be a genuine misunderstanding, he didnt think that 
Hastings had misled Mr and Mrs B when the multicar policy was discussed. And he thought 
the offer of £50 compensation was fair. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I let Hastings and Mr and Mrs B know that I didnt think that Hastings offer 
of £50 compensation went far enough. And that I thought £150 compensation was fairer in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill just highlight that Hastings arent responsible for the underwriting decisions for this 
policy, such as the premium cost or the decision to renew, which is decided by the insurer. 
Hastings only sell and administer the policies and isnt responsible for the insurers decision 
not to allow renewal, so Ive not looked at this issue as part of this complaint.
This policy was sold over the telephone. I have listened to the relevant calls, and during the 
initial call, Hastings provided a quote to add Mr Bs car to Mrs Bs existing policy. But I dont 
think it was sufficiently clear that Mrs Bs current policy was being amended, rather than a 
completely new policy being taken out. I say this as it was clear that Mrs B was phoning to 
get a quote for Mr B initially who was shopping around for a new policy. And Hastings didnt 
explain, at any stage during the various calls, how the multicar policy worked. 
The renewal date of the policy was never discussed, and Hastings agreed that this couldve 
been clearer. Although Hastings wrote to Mr and Mrs B after the policy was amended and 
the policy documents showed the correct position. I know Mr and Mrs B have acknowledged 
they didnt review the documents fully. But had they have considered the policy 
documentation the renewal date wouldve been clear. So I dont think it would be fair to 
refund the full premium and Mr B would have to pay for his time on cover in any event.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs B were told incorrectly, during the sales call, that there was a 
cooling off period. And I feel that this added to their feeling that this was a new policy and 
would span a year as opposed to the remaining part of Mrs Bs policy. And Hastings, as it 
has acknowledged within its final response, missed the opportunity to explain that this wasnt 
a new policy and would only run until Mrs Bs policy was due for renewal.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B were disappointed to find out that their multicar policy 
didnt run for a year. It is a shame that this wasnt explained to Mr and Mrs B by Hastings 
when they called up asking for a new policy for Mr B. Mr B has explained that he had some 
competitive quotes lined up elsewhere and I suspect he wouldve gone with another 
company had he been clearly made aware how the multicar policy worked and how long the 
policy lasted. But he shouldve looked at his policy documentation and as Ive already said I 
think it is only fair that he pays for his time on cover.
However, I think £150 compensation, as opposed to £50, is a fairer reflection of the stress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B faced which stemmed from Hastings lack of information as 
it has acknowledged . And also acknowledges that Hastings communicated poorly about the 
cooling off period as well..
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman