DRN-4043387
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) delayed a transfer of his stocks 
and shares ISA to another provider, preventing him from trading as he wanted, so incurring 
him a significant loss.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr B requested that HSDL transfer his share holdings and cash to an ISA 
held with another provider. Mr Bs ISA included shares in Vanguard FTSE All World ETF, 
shares in Tesla and around £55,000 in cash. Mr B says he intended to use the cash to 
purchase shares in two funds equally which he already held with new ISA provider.
By July 2021 the transfer process was still ongoing, so he raised a complaint.
HSDL accepted failings in administrating the transfer and offered Mr B £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. In summary, it said:
It didnt receive Mr Bs request until 22 April 2021 as the new provider sent it to the 
wrong address. However, the request wasnt logged on HSDLs system until 1 June 
2021, causing a delay of five weeks.
The Vanguard FTSE All World ETF was transferred in-specie on 6 August 2021, 
while the Tesla shares did not settle out of its platform until 1 November 2021.
The transfer of cash is usually done once all in-specie assets have been transferred, 
unless otherwise specified by either the investor or their new provider and it noted 
that Mr B didnt inform HSDL of specific intentions to invest the cash until he sent a 
letter on 27 July 2021. 
HSDL received Mr Bs new providers request to transfer the cash element on 19 
August and this was completed on 24 August 2021.
The UK government timeframe of 30 days should be used as a guideline and that it 
clearly states its current and average transfer timescales on HSDLs website.
It does not explicitly advise to stop trading from the moment an investor request a 
transfer.
However, the late payment of the cash element being directly related to its delayed
completion of the in-specie transfers, so it upheld Mr Bs complaint for significant 
delays leading to a loss of expectation.
Mr B didnt accept HSDLs findings and so he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
An investigator at this service considered the matter and felt that HSDL had done enough to 
put things right for Mr B. In summary, they said:
HSDL had posted on its website in March 2021 that there was currently delays of up 
to 12 weeks for ISA transfers.
Although delayed, the shares were transferred in specie so without incurring any 
loss.
Mr B intended to buy shares equally between two funds he already held with his new 
ISA provider.
Mr B couldnt have bought shares in one of these funds through HSDL, but he could 
have purchased shares in the other fund with HSDL at any time during the transfer.
They could understand why Mr B was cautious about trading during the transfer as 
he didnt want to delay the transfer. But they said HSDL had been clear about the 
timescales for transfers meaning Mr B had time to make an informed decision to 
invest his cash, rather than be out of the market. 
So they didnt think Mr B took reasonable steps to mitigate his loss.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he was operating with no information 
other than the information on the HSDLs website and this said not to trade once the transfer 
request was made in order to prevent further delays. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSDL accepts that it caused unnecessary delays in transferring Mr Bs ISA to his new 
provider and so I dont need to make a finding on this. The key issue for me to consider is 
whether HSDL has fairly compensated Mr B for these delays. And having done so, Im 
satisfied that it has. Ill explain why. 
Mr Bs investments held in his ISA were transferred in-specie and Im not aware of any 
intention to sell these after transferring to his new provider. So, its clear that Mr B hasnt 
suffered a loss on these because of HSDLs delays.
However, it is the cash element of his ISA which Mr B believes HSDLs delays has caused 
him an investment loss. Mr B says it was his intention to use this to purchase shares in two 
funds equally which he already held with new ISA provider. He says that had the cash been 
transferred sooner he would have been able to purchase more shares in the funds. 
Whilst I accept that the cash would have transferred to his new provider sooner had HSDL 
completed the transfer in a timely manner, I also think Mr B could have mitigated any 
potential loss. I say this as Mr B was aware when instigating the transfer that HSDL were 
taking longer than usual to transfer ISAs. In his submission to this service Mr B provided the 
following excerpt from HSDLs website regarding its timescales:
"Current transfer timescales
Due to the unprecedented demand for our service transfers are taking longer than 
usual. Transfers are currently taking up to 12 weeks and there is currently a delay of 
3 weeks to log your initial request. We are working hard to process transfers as 
quickly as possible and apologise for any inconvenience this may cause.
So its clear Mr B was fully aware that his transfer was going to take some time and if it was 
imperative to him that he had access to cash sooner to invest in his ISA with his new 
provider, then he had a number of options available to him to do so. 
Whilst its normal practice in ISA transfers for cash to be transferred following an in-specie 
has completed, so cash is available in case any outstanding payments are due, Mr B could 
have contacted HSDL to request the cash been transferred sooner. I understand HSDL were unaware of Mr Bs intentions to invest his cash until he contacted it in July 2021. HSDL did 
transfer the cash before the ISA transfer had completed following Mr Bs new ISA providers 
request to do so on 19 August 2021. So, whilst Mr B did eventually make a request to 
transfer the cash before the ISA transfer completed, I think he could have done this much 
sooner than he did. And had he done so, he would have mitigated his loss. 
Alternatively, Mr B could have invested the cash with HSDL and amended his transfer. I 
understand Mr B says he was operating with no information other than the information on the 
HSDLs website and this said not to trade once the transfer request was made in order to 
prevent further delays. However, HSLD explained in its final response letter to Mr B that it 
doesnt explicitly advise to stop trading from the moment a transfer request is made. Whilst I 
accept that in doing so, it may have delayed the transfer, Im satisfied that Mr B was aware 
that the transfer wouldnt complete for up to twelve weeks and so he had ample time to 
make any investments if he didnt want his cash to remain uninvested. 
Finally, Mr B could have cancelled his transfer, knowing how long it would likely take, and 
simply withdrawn the cash before making the transfer again. 
So, taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that whilst HSDL caused unnecessary 
delays, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask it to compensate Mr B for his potential 
investment loss. I accept that the delays did cause Mr B some distress and inconvenient as 
its clear he was doing a lot of chasing to try and understand what was delaying the transfer 
but I think HSDLs offer of £400 fairly compensates him for this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limiteds offer of £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman