DRN-3745657
The complaint
Mr A complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (BCS) failed to pursue mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims which meant hes lost the opportunity to have his 
complaints investigated.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr A said hed instructed BCS to pursue mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf with  
his lenders, including his mortgage provider and a catalogue account. Mr A said hed had 
some successful claims and was confident hed be successful with his remaining claims. He 
said hed used his savings for home improvements on the expectation of his claim being 
successful. But despite calling and emailing BCS he hadnt been given a resolution to his 
outstanding claims. Mr A said hed previously been asked by BCS about a £121 
compensation award, but he said he never received this. Mr A complained to BCS but they 
didnt respond so hes referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked BCS to provide their business file so that we could consider what 
theyd done for Mr A in pursuance of his mis-sold PPI claims. But BCS didnt provide the 
requested information. 
In July 2022, Mr A said he was told by BCS that one of his lenders Ill call H had removed 
their letter of authority (LoA) and BCS asked him to sign another LoA. Mr A said he spoke to 
H as itd been nearly three years after the deadline for making such claims had passed. He 
said they told him he didnt have any other PPI claims and that theyd never paid him the 
£121 as he wasnt due the redress. But BCS still hadnt updated him about his mortgage and 
catalogue PPI claims.
Our investigator said she couldnt say whether Mr As claims would have been successful 
but said Mr A had suffered a loss of opportunity. She asked BCS to  compensate Mr A £250 
for this. She also said the lack of updates had caused Mr A distress and inconvenience. And 
asked BCS to pay a further £100 for this.
BCS havent responded to our investigators outcome. Mr A said hed paid PPI premiums on 
his catalogue account which he shouldnt have done as he was self-employed. And said hed 
a strong case for a successful claim. 
Mr As complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr As main dispute centres around the potential for a mis-sold PPI claim for his catalogue 
account and his mortgage. Mr A said hed been confident of success as he knew hed paid a 
PPI premium on his catalogue account. He said hed instructed BCS to act on his behalf to 
pursue these claims well before the August 2019 deadline for making such claims.
Its unfortunate that BCS havent provided any information about their involvement with Mr A 
about his mis-sold PPI claims. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened or not considering the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim.  
But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Its usual for lenders on receipt of an LoA on the approach of the August 2019 deadline to 
either accept this as a mis-sold PPI claim  auto conversion  and begin to investigate 
whether PPI has been mis-sold or to reject the claim as PPI hadnt been found. If the lender 
hadnt been able to locate an account for Mr A I would have expected them to seek further 
information to help identify his account details. I havent seen any evidence that shows BCS 
sent Mr As LoA to his lenders nor any responses or follow up action taken by BCS to 
establish the status of Mr As claims.  
Ive considered the relevant guidance, CMCOB 2.1.8 says:
A firm should take all reasonable steps to investigate the existence and merits of each 
element of a potential claim before making or pursuing the claim or advising 
the customer themselves to make or pursue the claim.
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 says:
 If, during the period to which the report relates, the firm has not sent any notifications to 
the customer under CMCOB 6.1.5R, the update should indicate why, to the best of 
the firms knowledge, there have been no material developments.
The guidance goes on to say that updates should continue to be given until the claim is 
finally determined or settled or is withdrawn or discontinued.
BCS havent shown that they have adhered to the guidance. But Mr A has provided details of the 
emails hes sent to BCS about his claims. 
I cant know or speculate whether Mr A would have had a successful mis-sold PPI claim with 
his lenders or not as there are several factors that lenders would have needed to consider. 
And Mr A hasnt shown any evidence of the amount of PPI premiums he said hed paid.
But BCS havent shown me that that they carried out Mr As instructions to pursue his mis-
sold PPI claims, and I think this has meant hes lost the opportunity for these claims to be fully investigated. And its now over three years since the deadline for these claims to be 
made has passed. So, I think BCS should compensate Mr A £250 for this.
Ive also considered the service BCS gave to Mr A. And I dont think BCS have kept him 
informed as they should have. So, I think its fair and reasonable for BCS to pay Mr A £100 
for the inconvenience this has caused.
I understand Mr A probably wont feel as though this addresses his potential financial loss or 
feeling of being let down by BCS. But I cant ask BCS to compensate him for any PPI 
redress he might or might not have received as I cant know what the lender would have 
decided if theyd investigated Mr As PPI claims. I can only consider the actions of BCS so I  
hope Mr A can understand why Ive reached the decision I have.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to compensate Mr A for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by paying him:
£250 for loss of opportunity and
£100 for poor customer service
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman