DRN-3696139
The complaint
Ms C complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo irresponsibly lent to her.
Ms C is represented by a claims management company. For ease; Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by her.
What happened
Ms C took out two loans with Trusttwo. The first was taken in May 2018 and was for a capital
amount of £3,000. This loan was repaid with some of the proceeds from loan two which was
taken in November 2018 and was for a total amount of £4,700. Ms C says this loan has
since been settled by a third party (the guarantor to the agreement).
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Trusttwo agreed with this
recommendation. In the course of progressing the redress, Trusttwo confirmed it would be
pursuing Ms C for a remaining balance of approximately £1,200. This was because it says it
has refunded the money which was paid by the third party and as such Ms C needs to repay
the shortfall.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not currently minded making a finding on the relative merits of 
this case; as doing so will not materially alter the outcome of this complaint. That is to 
say all parties agree the loans should not have been sold to Ms C. Trusttwo has 
made an offer to settle this complaint in response to our services involvement.
The remaining point in dispute here is the redress which has arisen as a result of this
dispute. Trusttwo says it should be able to pursue Ms C for the amount which it 
believes is outstanding. Ms C contends she is due redress from Trusttwo as a result 
of being sold the above loans.
Ill start by considering the amount which Ms C has paid. Our services standard 
approach to redress is to put consumers back in the position they wouldve have 
been had any potential error from a business not occurred. That is not possible in 
cases where capital has been advanced to consumer. So, in those instances our 
stance is that the consumer should only pay back the amount of credit theyve 
borrowed. That is because the consumer (unless proven otherwise) has had the 
benefit of the capital advanced.
In this instance Ms C settled loan one with some of the proceeds from loan two. She 
has said to our service that loan two was settled by a third party (her father). She 
says in her recent submission that her father did this by taking out a loan which had a 
lower interest rate.
In order for Ms C to be due redress Id need to be satisfied that she has paid over the
amount of capital she has borrowed (for the two loans combined). Trusttwo says this 
is not the case. And based on Ms Cs own information that doesnt appear to be the 
case either. It looks like her father has settled the outstanding balance.
So in the absence of more persuasive information from Ms C; Im not satisfied she 
has suffered a financial loss in this instance. That is to say; Im not persuaded based 
on the information Ive been provided that Ms C has paid more in repayments than 
she was lent. So Im satisfied there is no loss to her and it follows there would be no 
redress due either.
That is not the same as me saying that between Ms C and her father that theyve not 
repaid more than the capital amount. However, I cannot consider the payments made 
by the guarantor under this complaint. A guarantor has their own right to complain 
and any concerns he may have in terms of him losing out will need to be taken up 
with Trusttwo directly (if theyve not already done so).
Ms C says she is paying her father back for the loan he took to settle her loans with
Trusttwo; similar to the above I cant comment on that agreement as it does not 
involve the relevant regulated parties to this agreement. That is a private matter 
between her and her father.
Trusttwo says it is going to pursue Ms C for the amount she has under paid. I have
considered Trusttwos argument here but Im not persuaded that it can reasonably do 
so.
From my understanding; and based on the information which has been provided to 
date; loan two has been settled. That means there is no longer an agreement in 
place; and this has been discharged by all relevant parties.
As no agreement is in place; I dont understand how Trusttwo believes it can pursue 
Ms C for a debt that is by all accounts settled. Our service has asked Trusttwo to 
explain its position but it has only provided information in relation to loans which are 
still active. As I have explained above based on what Ive seen so far; loan one was 
settled by loan two and loan two was settled early by a third party. So there doesnt 
appear to be an active agreement in place and I dont see how Trusttwo even has a 
mechanism for collecting payments for under an agreement that was extinguished 
some time ago.
So based on what Ive seen so far; Im currently minded to say that Ms C is due no 
redress as she hasnt suffered a financial loss. And Im not persuaded Trusttwo can 
continue to pursue Ms C for a debt that is settled.
I would ask both parties to provide further information which demonstrates either they
suffered a financial loss; or that there is a loan balance still outstanding. Pending this
information, and subject to any further submissions which may be made; my final 
decision is likely to be along the same lines.
Neither parties responded to my provisional decision providing any further information or 
arguments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any new information or arguments for me to consider; Im 
satisfied my provisional decision should remain.
That is to say that I do not require Trusttwo to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint.
Im satisfied based on the information Ive seen that Ms C has not suffered a financial loss; 
as such she is not due any further redress. Im also satisfied that Trusttwo is not entitled to 
pursue Ms C for any shortfall it perceives is due. This is because as far as Im aware there is 
no agreement that exists between itself and Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo to do 
anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman