DRN-2759745
The complaint
Mr A complained Covea Insurance plc unfairly dealt with his claim arising from a motor 
accident in October 2020.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr A was involved in a road traffic accident. This was not his fault and a 
third party admitted liability. As part of the claim made to his insurers for repairs, he 
submitted evidence of a chip to his car windscreen. Covea accepted the repairs submitted 
as part of the claim, apart from the windscreen chip. Mr A complained Covea unreasonably 
declined this part of his claim.
Covea rejected his complaint. They said having reviewed the dashboard camera footage 
provided by Mr A combined with what was known about the incident and their general 
experience around windscreen chips, they didnt accept the chip could be properly form part 
of the claim. They let him know he could make a new claim to which an excess would apply.
Covea also let Mr A know it was open to him to obtain an independent engineers report 
which they could review if it came to a different conclusion to that theyd reached. They said 
the delays Mr A had referred to were linked to the dispute around the windscreen chip. But 
said theyd provided instructions to the repairers on 26 October 2020 and Mr A was given a 
courtesy car the next day. So they didnt feel Mr A had been without the use of a car or that 
any delay had been unnecessary. Repairs excluding the windscreen had been agreed on 20 
November 2020 and by 4 December 2020 was ready to be collected.
Mr A told us the chip was situated in a place that meant he was unable to legally continue to 
drive the car. He also said hed been deprived of the optimum use of his car as a result of 
Coveas decision. He wanted the windscreen fixed and for Covea to pay compensation to 
reflect his financial loss and emotional distress.
An investigator at this service didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt Covea had done 
anything wrong or acted unfairly. They didnt think Coveas assessment was unreasonable 
and as such this meant the windscreen damage could not be added to the claim. The 
investigator had earlier signposted Mr A to review his understanding of the rules around 
whether the car was able to be legally driven with the chip in the windscreen here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything provided Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I am sorry this will 
disappoint him, but I dont think Covea were wrong to decline Mr As claim in respect of the 
windscreen and in what theyve said about this. I dont think theyve treated Mr A or the 
assessment of the claim and damage unreasonably.
When Covea look at a claim they need to consider the details of the claim. This includes 
where there has been an accident, if all the damage said to be caused by an incident is 
properly claimed and covered. If there is damage that wasnt caused or cant reasonably be 
said to have been caused by the incident, then it would be wrong for that to be dealt with as 
part of that claim. I accept Coveas assessment and conclusions are reasonable in the 
circumstances. In any event, I think its unlikely, on balance, the chip was caused by the 
incident.
Coveas internal notes set out there were several internal reviews in relation to whether the 
windscreen chip could be said to be linked to the incident. But the conclusion at each review 
was that the windscreen chip wasnt caused by the accident. When explaining their thinking, 
Covea have referred to whats known about the incident and how it occurred, the footage 
provided by Mr A from his dashboard camera and their experience of the causes of chips to 
windscreens. 
I appreciate I wasnt present at the incident, so Ive needed to reach my decision based on 
what I considered most likely. Ive understood Mr As son was in the car when the incident 
occurred, so it was natural for his primary attention to be directed to his son. Mr As report of 
the incident included reference to waiting for the first exit on a roundabout with a car in front 
of him. There was some space between them and a third car pulled into the space and 
brushed his left wheel with [Mr As] front right bumper.
The incident didnt involve any real speed or high level of impact. I accept these are things 
that can increase the likelihood of debris and windscreen chips, particularly depending on 
other surrounding circumstances that appear to have been absent here. Nor did the footage 
capture the relevant area of windscreen or any debris. I accept what Mr A says about chips 
to windscreens occurring in a number of different scenarios, and stones can be very small. I 
also accept there is no direct evidence, such as footage or earlier photos to show the 
damage didnt happen the way Mr A thinks.
But on balance I dont think Coveas explanation about why they dont think the chip was 
caused by the incident is unreasonable, or that they are wrong to have proceeded on that 
basis and declined that part of Mr As claim. It reflects the generality of experience as to how 
such chips are caused, and the type of damage that is usually involved in the type of 
accident Mr A was involved in.
We do consider each case on its own merits and I have looked with care at everything 
provided. Mr A appreciates Covea have a duty to ensure damage claimed for arose from the 
relevant incident. So I hope he understands that where they dont think this part of the claim 
did arise from the incident, they cant try and claim from a third party, even where fault has 
been admitted.
There were some suggestions Mr A might want to consider obtaining his own independent 
report on the damage, and that if any such report concluded the chip could be related to the 
incident, Covea would re-consider the claim, and it appears theyd also consider meeting 
costs in those circumstances. It doesnt appear Mr A has followed this option. I think it was a 
fair option to highlight to Mr A, but I appreciate given the costs potentially involved and 
compared with those that might be relevant under a separate claim, there might be good 
reasons why Mr A didnt pursue this further.
Covea suggested Mr A might want to consider making a separate claim in respect of his 
windscreen repair. I dont think they were wrong to do that. Having looked at the terms of his 
cover, Covea was right to let Mr A know this would mean hed need to pay the relevant 
excess fee required if he chose to do this. Such repair is covered under his policy and 
doesnt impact on any no claims bonus.I appreciate Mr A referred to not being able to drive his car as the chip made it unsafe to 
drive. This isnt something Ive needed to decide. Ive heard the conversation Mr A had with 
the investigator about this, and it might be there was some mis-understanding about whether 
this chip fell into this category. I havent needed to consider this as I dont think Covea did 
anything wrong regarding declining to repair the chip under the incident claim. Ive seen Mr A 
had the use of the courtesy car here, so whilst I dont accept Covea did anything wrong, Mr 
A wasnt deprived of the use of a car, even if it wasnt his own.
My final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman