DRN-4072556
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) dealt with a claim under 
his home insurance policy for repairs following a leak.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr H contacted Tesco to report a leak from his toilet tank. He believed that
this was a result of poor workmanship following repairs carried out by Tesco as part of a
claim the previous year.
Tescos original repair contractor attended Mr Hs property in February 2022 to investigate
the leak.
In March 2022 Mr H contacted Tesco to explain that there had been no progress with getting
his toilet fixed. He said hed telephoned the contractor many times but they didnt call him
back or keep him informed of what was happening. Mr H made a complaint to Tesco about
the delays and a separate issue regarding the shower which is not the subject of this
complaint. In April 2022 Tesco wrote to Mr H saying that the contractor was arranging trace
and access to investigate the toilet leak. It also offered Mr H £200 compensation.
The contractor attended the property at the end of May 2022 to carry out trace and access. It
concluded that the repairs required to the toilet were not due to poor workmanship. It said
that the flush pipe had been cut too short during the original plumbing and installation of the
bathroom and so any repairs were not covered under the policy.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to Tesco. Tesco said that the issue with the
toilet was not a result of an insurance related incident and that it was correct to decline
cover. Mr H disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. He complained about the
time taken to investigate the leak and that the repair had been declined.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He concluded that it was
reasonable for Tesco to decline cover as the leak wasnt the result of poor workmanship. He
also thought that the £200 compensation for delay was fair. Mr H asked for his complaint to
be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
On 10 February 2023 I made a provisional decision. I said: 
When an insurer settles a claim by carrying out repairs, we expect those repairs to be
effective and lasting. If the insurer appoints a contractor to carry out the repairs, as in this
case, the insurer is responsible for the contractors work. So, if theres a problem, the insurer
is responsible for sorting it out.
Mr Hs complaint is about a leak in 2022 and repairs carried out by Tesco the previous year.
Im aware there have been issues raised about other insurers and repairs carried out before
the claim in 2020/21 - but Ive not considered these issues here as I dont think theyre
relevant to this complaint.
Mr H believes that the work carried out by Tescos contractor in 2020/21 was of a poor
standard and that the new leak was a result of those repairs. Its not for me to determine the
cause of the leak, but rather to decide whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably when
declining to cover the repairs.
Ive looked carefully at the reports and comments of the contractor who attended Mr Hs
property on three separate occasions. The original leak reported in 2020 was from a
defective pan connector which Tesco says was repaired in early 2021. The photos of the
new leak are not clear, so I cant see where the leak is coming from, but the contractor
concludes that its a different issue. He says the leak was caused by the flush pipe being cut
too short when the toilet was originally installed and that this wasnt part of the previous
repairs. I havent seen anything to dispute this and so I dont think it unreasonable for Tesco
to rely on its experts opinion.
I appreciate that Mr H believes the current leak to be a consequence of the previous repairs,
but Ive not been provided with any evidence to support this. Im therefore satisfied that
Tesco acted fairly when it declined the claim.
Ive also considered Mr Hs complaint about the time taken to deal with his claim. Mr H
reported the leak to Tesco in January 2022 and his claim wasnt concluded for some five
months. Trace and access didnt take place until the end of May 2022. Its not clear why
there was such a delay, but Im satisfied it wasnt Mr Hs fault.
Mr H says that he chased the contractor many times about what was happening and raised
a complaint with Tesco about the delay. Tescos response in April 2022 was to advise that
trace and access was being arranged  although this didnt take place for a further four
weeks.
Tesco offered Mr H £200 compensation which its told us was for the initial delays and
because Mr H was led to believe that it would cover all the work. However, Ive read Tescos
letter to Mr H dated 25 April 2022 and its clear to me that the compensation was offered for
issues relating to Mr Hs shower - and not about delays dealing with the claim for the toilet.
In any event, Mr Hs claim for the toilet wasnt concluded for at least another four weeks.
During the claim Mr H was without a working toilet and whilst he did have alternative
facilities, this must still have been an inconvenience for him. He was also upset by the lack
of progress and updates from Tesco and its contractor and had to take time to chase them
on numerous occasions.
I therefore intend to require Tesco to pay Mr H £200 compensation for distress and
inconvenience, in addition to any compensation already offered for the shower. I think this is
fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said that the repairs carried out by Tescos contractor were not done to a proper 
standard and that Tesco refused to put this right. He also said that he had waited a long time 
for Tesco to tell him that nothing would be done.
Tesco did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board Mr Hs additional comments, and I understand that he feels strongly that 
it was Tescos responsibility to put things right. However, I havent been provided with any 
new evidence regarding the cause of the leak, I so dont think it was unreasonable for Tesco 
to rely on its experts opinion to decline the claim. 
In my provisional decision I took into account the delay and lack of use of the toilet and 
awarded £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt, 
this is in addition to the £200 Tesco has already offered to Mr H.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to 
pay Mr H £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman