DRN-2676622
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy with how hes been treated by Lex Autolease Ltd after a car it supplied 
through a hire agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
 In April 2019 Mr S got a brand-new luxury car from Lex through a hire agreement. The 
agreement was to last 24 months with an initial payment of £973.72 followed by a further 23 
monthly repayments also for £973.72.
But from the start, there were problems with the car. These meant Mr S needed to take the 
car to a manufacturer approved dealership to try and fix the issues. I wont detail all the 
faults here as theyre not disputed. But the problems with the car were numerous and varied. 
So much so, by the beginning of July 2019, with the manufacturers support, Lex offered to 
terminate Mr Ss hire agreement.
But Lex didnt collect the car until mid-September 2019. Mr S was still having to make his 
monthly payments on his agreement during this time. He wasnt happy with this and 
complained to Lex. He also referred his complaint to our service.
Lex said part of the delay was caused by needing to get the correct number plates put on the 
car as Mr S had fitted a cherished number plate. But it did accept it had then delayed the 
collection. It offered to refund £1,126.01 to Mr S. This was made up of just over a months 
payment together with interest plus £50 for the inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr S didnt accept this offer. In short, he said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and, under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), he was entitled to all his money back less a 
deduction for wear and tear. Lex then issued an invoice to Mr S for excess mileage. This 
was for £19.85. Then, at the end of September 2019, Lex took another monthly payment 
from Mr S. This was refunded to him a few days later.
As Mr S wasnt happy with the way Lex had dealt with these events, one of our investigators 
looked into this case. Briefly, he thought the amount of monthly repayments Lex had offered 
to refund to Mr S was correct. But he thought Lex should pay him a further £400 for the 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and made numerous points in response. He felt 
Lex needed to do more to put things right. In summary he thought his complaint should be 
looked at in one of two ways: either following the CRA 2015, allowing a deduction for fair 
wear and tear but also not allowing Lex to deduct payments for any period caused by it 
failing to collect the car; or, taking a fair and reasonable approach and looking at whether, 
amongst numerous other things, its fair or reasonable that hes charged full price for a 
luxury car that never worked properly from the start.
Lex also disagreed with our investigator. Again in summary, it felt the offer it had made to 
Mr S was fair and reasonable.
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2021. In it I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. But I think this situation needs to be remedied in a 
different way to our investigator, even though this produces a broadly similar outcome. Ive 
explained this below.
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: given the issues with the quality 
of the car and the problems Mr S had after Lex agreed to terminate his agreement, what 
should it do to put things right?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I know Mr S has referred to various other decisions issued by our service and feels these 
back up his view that he should get a bigger refund from Lex. But I would point out that, 
while on the surface these complaints may seem quite similar to his, each complaint is 
determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at 
the individual circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
Also, Mr S has suggested I should look at his complaint either by reference to the CRA 2015 
or by taking a fair and reasonable approach. But thats not quite right. As an ombudsman, 
Im required to take the law into account. As Mr S has stated, relevant legislation here is the 
CRA 2015. But as well as taking the law into account, Im also required to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances here. I dont look at the CRA 2015 in isolation 
to what is fair and reasonable  I take both into account.
Lex, as the finance provider, is responsible for the quality of the car provided under the hire 
agreement. Theres no dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Lex agreed to 
terminate Mr Ss agreement early due to this. But by the time it collected the car from Mr S  
just under five months after the agreement started  hed already paid the first five payments 
due to Lex. I know a sixth payment was also mistakenly taken at the end of September 
2019, but I can see this was refunded a few days later.
Given the problems Mr S had with the car, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
him to pay all the payments that fell due before the agreement was terminated. I can see Lex 
offered to refund a little over one payment to Mr S plus interest. Its offer also included £50 
compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience hed experienced. Im not satisfied this goes far 
enough.
Section 24 (8) CRA 2015 allows the amount of any refund to be reduced to take into account 
Mr Ss use of the car. So Ive thought about the number of miles Mr S covered while he had 
it. I can see that when Lex collected the car from Mr S, it had covered 3,842 miles. Ive 
looked at Mr Ss agreement. This sets out an annual mileage allowance of 10,000, so thats 
833.33 miles a month. I accept the number of miles someone will drive will vary throughout 
the course of a year. But Im satisfied that using the yearly figure of 10,000 miles stated in 
the contract gives a fair and reasonable estimate of expected use.I can see Mr S feels Lex have set a precedent for the mileage charge when it invoiced him 
for excess miles at a rate of 27.04 pence per mile. I dont agree. That is the rate for excess 
miles. It doesnt in anyway represent the amount Mr S agreed to pay Lex each month for the 
hire of the car. Its totally separate from, and unrelated to the amount he agreed to pay under 
the hire agreement. Instead Ive looked at how Mr Ss actual use of the car relates to a 
reasonable estimate of the expected use, as set out in the agreement.
The number of miles the car covered is equal to the best part of five months estimated use. 
This is the same amount of payments Mr S made to Lex. But given the faults and problems 
Mr S experienced, I wouldnt expect him to have to make those payments in full. After all, he 
was expecting to drive a brand new, fault free luxury car. But the car wasnt fault free. It had 
numerous problems and had to be taken in to the dealership more than once, for repairs to 
be attempted.
This would have significantly impaired Mr Ss enjoyment of the car. With this in mind Im 
satisfied Lex should refund 20% of each of the five payments Mr S made up to when the car 
was collected. Lex should also add 8% yearly simple interest on these amounts from when 
Mr S paid them until he gets them back.
Also, Ive taken into account that while Mr S made five payments, his actual use was 
equivalent to less than five months. So I think Lex should refund a further £300 to Mr S 
which broadly reflects his actual use. It also takes into account the 20% refund Ive outlined 
above. Lex should add 8% yearly simple interest on it from when the car was collected to the 
date the refund is made.
In the circumstances of this complaint I wouldnt expect Lex to have charged Mr S £19.85 for 
excess mileage given the problems he had with the car  and some of this mileage would 
have been due to the car being returned to the dealership for repairs. So Im satisfied Lex 
should refund £19.85 to Mr S together with 8% yearly simple interest on this amount from 
when this payment was taken until he gets it back.
Finally, I thought about the amount Lex should pay Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused by this situation. I can see he made numerous phone calls and sent 
various emails to firstly try and resolve the issues with the car, and then to actually get it 
collected by Lex. Ive noted Mr Ss testimony about how inconvenient it was having to store 
the car while waiting for it to be collected.
Im also aware he had to move his cherished number plate sooner than he otherwise would 
have done and had to change insurers. And while Lex quickly refunded the payment that 
was mistakenly taken after it collected the car, this still would have caused undue worry to 
Mr S.
Ive also borne in mind that Ive already reflected Mr Ss impaired enjoyment of the car by 
telling Lex to refund 20% of his payments. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied a 
payment of £250 is proportionate to the circumstances here.
I can see Mr S has said that the CRA 2015 means that Lex shouldnt have taken any 
payments for him using the car while he still had it because Lex hadnt collected it at an 
agreed time. Indeed, in general terms, that is the effect of Section 24(9) of the CRA 2015. 
But although Lex agreed to terminate Mr Ss agreement in early July 2019, theres nothing in 
the available evidence that shows it agreed a time and then failed to collect the car before it 
did actually collect it in September 2019.In any event, this is a somewhat moot point. Lex may not have collected the car as quickly 
as Mr S wanted, and I know he feels the delay was due to it not giving him the details he 
needed to move his cherished number plate. But the redress Ive outlined above reflects his 
actual use of the car.
Finally, I can also see Mr S has made several points about how much money Lex received 
back from the manufacturer due to the issues with the car. But thats a matter between the 
manufacturer and Lex. The complaint Im dealing with centres on the hire agreement 
between Mr S and Lex. The redress Ive outlined reflects the terms of that hire agreement, 
and what is a fair and reasonable amount for Mr S to pay for his actual use of the car while 
he had it, after taking into account the issues that arose. Any separate commercial 
agreement between the manufacturer and Lex has no bearing at all on this.
Mr S replied to my provisional decision saying his only area of contention was around Lex 
collecting the car as he felt it could have done more. But Mr S also said he wanted to draw a 
line under this issue and accepted my provisional decision. 
Lex also responded to my provisional decision. It asked for clarification of my proposed 
award of £300 plus interest. It felt this was effectively an additional payment for the 
inconvenience Mr S had experienced. It said this shouldnt attract interest. Lex went on to 
say my proposed award of £250 also appears excessive given what it was based on and the 
amounts already awarded. 
Given Lexs questions, I clarified the reasons for my proposed redress. I explained the 20% 
reduction in Mr Ss payments reflected his impaired enjoyment of the car. I pointed out that 
the additional award wasnt an additional inconvenience payment. Instead, it was effectively 
a partial refund of Mr Ss fifth monthly payment. 
I explained that while Mr S had made five monthly payments, he hadnt actually had the car 
for five months, nor were the number of miles he covered consistent with five months use. 
So the £300 refund was to reflect his actual use of the car while also taking into account the 
20% refund Id already outlined. I clarified that as this was effectively a partial refund of the 
fifth payment, it would attract an award of interest as well.
I also repeated the reasons outlined in my provisional decision above about why I thought a 
payment of £250 for the distress and inconvenience Mr S had experienced was 
proportionate to the circumstances here. In response, Lex said its opinion hadnt changed 
but it wouldnt be commenting further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm to Mr S that I do appreciate his point about Lexs collection of the car. I know 
he feels it could have done more. But I did consider this fully when upholding his complaint 
and setting out what should be done to put things right.
 
Lex asked for further rationale behind my provisional decision. I provided this straight away. 
While Lex said it didnt accept my provisional decision, it didnt provide any new arguments 
or evidence to me. 
Taking all this into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should:
refund 20% of each of the five payments Mr S made up to when the car was
collected. It should also add 8% yearly simple interest on these amounts from when
Mr S paid them until he gets them back;
refund £300 as outlined above together with 8% yearly simple interest on this amount 
from when the car was collected until the date the refund is made;
refund £19.85 to Mr S together with 8% yearly simple interest from the date this
payment was made until the date of the refund; and
pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
If Lex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman