DRN-3610860
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr and Mrs S hold jointly with 
The Mortgage Business (TMB). The essence of the complaint is about how TMB has 
communicated with them since the mortgage fell due for repayment in 2019. Mr and Mrs S 
are represented in the complaint by their solicitors, whom Ill refer to as A.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs S, A and TMB. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage which fell due for repayment in March 2019. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt repay the mortgage, but theyve made a substantial lump sum payment that reduced 
the balance approximately in half, and have continued to pay interest every month. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted TMB in February 2019 through a family member, and it gave them 
six months grace (so, to September 2019) to repay the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S instructed A 
to engage with TMB and that process began in July 2019, at this stage entirely by letter. 
Once TMB was satisfied it had Mr and Mrs S authority to engage with A, it wrote on 
20 September 2019 explaining that Mr and Mrs S, or A on their behalf, would need to call the 
business to discuss the mortgage. 
A responded to say Mr and Mrs S were seeking advice from a mortgage advisor but in the 
meantime, wanted an 18-month term extension. TMB reiterated that they or A on their behalf 
needed to speak to it on the phone, but that didnt happen. During the remainder of 2019, A 
continued to write asking if the 18-month term extension had been agreed. Eventually, after 
TMB had written proposing a home visit, the parties spoke on the phone on 3 January 2020. 
The outcome of this was that TMB agreed a two-month hold on further action (so, to 
March 2020) to allow the mortgage property to be marketed, on condition Mr and Mrs S 
provided evidence of the steps theyd been taking to obtain advice plus details of any 
alternative plan for repaying the mortgage.
The next TMB heard from Mr and Mrs S was in June 2020; they told TMB theyd borrowed 
some money and could reduce the debt by a little over £100,000. However, they couldnt 
repay all of it, and didnt want to sell their home; they wanted TMB to agree a five-year term 
extension. TMB carried out an income/expenditure analysis and concluded the requested 
extension was unaffordable. It gave Mr and Mrs S until 22 July 2020 to consider their options 
and come back to it. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt contact TMB within that time, but in August 2020, A resumed writing to 
TMB on their behalf, saying they could repay part of the mortgage debt, but needed to agree 
a payment plan for the rest. As before, TMB said that this would all need to be discussed on 
the phone, but A continued to write further letters, saying it would refer matters to the 
ombudsman.
A contacted our service in October 2020, and once wed received signed authorisation from 
both borrowers, we passed details of the complaint to TMB. That was in January 2021. TMB 
didnt handle the complaint well. It issued a pre final warning letter to Mr and Mrs S in late 
January 2021 and failed to reply to a letter from A in February 2021 pointing out that our 
service was now involved. In due course, TMB would accept it got this wrong, apologise and 
offer Mr and Mrs £100 compensation for the oversight. But in the meantime, it reviewed their 
account and concluded it met TMBs criteria for litigation, and issued a final warning letter.
We began looking into the complaint after TMB had issued a final response with the apology 
and offer of £100. For the most part, our investigator didnt think TMB was being 
unreasonable or had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. He did think it was wrong of TMB to 
issue the final waning letter when it should have been addressing the complaint. But he took 
the view that the £100 compensation, plus the further time the mortgage has been on hold 
whilst we looked into the complaint, balanced that out.
A asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman; it says we havent paid enough 
attention to TMB having ignored all its letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr and Mrs borrowed money from TMB, and under the term of 
their agreement with TMB, were due to pay it back in March 2019. As yet, they havent done 
so; and the available evidence suggests thats because they dont wish to yet, rather than 
because they cant. 
TMB had already agreed a short term extension in February 2019, before the mortgage 
expired. Mr and Mrs S didnt comply with that first extended deadline, but instead instructed 
A to seek a further extension. Having looked at how A approached that, without wishing to 
sound unkind, I get the impression that A assumed that extending Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
was something of a formality. If that is true, then Im afraid A has rather mis-directed itself. 
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed 
before;, theyre not automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen 
due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term 
extension, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public.
TMB did agree a term extension at the outset, but Mrs and Mr S didnt company with it. Its 
been asked to grant further extensions since then; initially 18 months and then subsequently 
for five years. I dont think TMBs decision not to grant the latter was either unreasonable or 
unfairly reached.
Realistically, Mr and Mrs Ss only means of repaying the mortgage is either by selling the 
mortgaged property or borrowing elsewhere. Theyve managed to reduce the debt by 
borrowing elsewhere, but are apparently reluctant to sell their home. TMB has already 
shown them a considerable degree of patience, but its not obliged to do so indefinitely. 
Insofar as it is continuing to do so (for the time being at least) it is reasonably entitled to 
expect Mr and Mrs S (or A on their behalf) to engage in its decision-making process. That 
means, calling TMBs purpose-built end of term department on the phone to discuss what 
is or is not possible.
A continues to argue that TMB ignored its letters. Other than its mis-handling of the 
complaint in early 2021, which Im satisfied TMB has addressed fairly with its offer of £100, I 
dont agree with that characterisation. TMB has consistently responded to the letters by 
saying A, or Mr and Mrs S, must call it on the phone. TMB doesnt have to change its system 
to accommodate As communication preferences.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman