DRN-4286505
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, charged interest on 
her credit account which she feels shouldnt have been charged. 
What happened
In January 2023, Mrs L noticed that interest had been charged on her Barclaycard credit 
account. Mrs L wasnt happy about this because she made payments every month to ensure 
that no interest was charged on the account. So, she raised a complaint. 
Barclaycard responded to Mrs L and explained she hadnt made the payment necessary to 
clear the account balance on the month the interest had been charged, which meant the 
interest had been charged correctly. However, as a gesture of goodwill, Barclaycard agreed 
to reimburse the charged interest back to Mrs Ls account. And Barclaycard also agreed to 
put the remainder of the unpaid balance that was correctly attracting interest onto a 0% 
interest rate until 1 July 2023. Mrs L wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response, so she 
referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Barclaycards explanation as to 
why Mrs L had been charged interest on the account was reasonable. But they noted that 
Barclaycard hadnt transferred the remainder of the interest-attracting balance to a 0% 
interest rate as theyd agreed to, which meant Mrs L had continued to incur interest on that 
balance. So, our investigator said Barclaycard should reimburse the charged interest back to 
Mrs L and transfer the balance to a 0% interest rate as theyd agreed, and that Barclaycard 
should pay £100 to Mrs L as compensation for the trouble and upset shed incurred.
Barclaycard looked at Mrs Ls complaint again and apologised for not transferring the 
balance to a 0% rate as theyd agreed to, and they acted to transfer the balance to a 0% 
interest rate until 1 July 2024  a further year beyond the date they initially agreed to. 
Barclaycard also reimbursed the interest that had incorrectly charged back to the account 
and offered to pay £200 compensation to Mrs L for the upset and trouble shed experienced.
Our investigator felt that Barclaycards actions and offer of compensation already 
represented a fair outcome to what had happened. However, Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the 
circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mrs L feels that Barclaycard incorrectly allocated payments she made to her credit account 
in November 2022, which resulted in payments being used to reduce a balance transfer 
amount that benefitted from promotional 0% interest rate rather than reducing the monthly 
spending balance on her account which accrued interest, as should have been the case. 
And Mrs L contends that it was for this reason  that there was monthly spend from 
November that incorrectly remained present on her account  that Barclaycard wrongly 
charged interest on her account the following month.
Regardless of whether Mrs Ls assertions here are correct or not, Barclaycard agreed to 
reimburse the charged interest and transfer the balance that they considered to be liable to 
accrue interest to a 0% interest rate until 1 July 2023  which was the date of expiry for the 
promotional 0% interest rate for the balance transfer amount Mrs L felt Barclaycard had 
incorrectly applied some of her November payments to.
So, from a fairness of outcome perspective, Im satisfied that Barclaycard had agreed to 
restore Mrs Ls account to the position she felt that it should have been in.
However, while Barclaycard did reimburse the incurred interest back to Mrs Ls account, they 
didnt also act to transfer the interest-incurring balance to a 0% interest rate as theyd 
promised they would. And this meant that Mrs Ls account continued to incur interest on that 
balance for the following months. 
Barclaycard have acknowledged and apologised for their mistake here. And theyve already 
reimbursed the interest that had incorrectly been incurred on the account back to Mrs L.
Additionally, Barclaycard have transferred the interest accruing balance  which is roughly 
£2,100  to an 0% interest rate until 1 July 2024. This a year longer that the 0% interest rate 
Mrs Ls initial balance transfer promotional offer was scheduled to benefit from. And Im 
satisfied that by taking this action Barclaycard are effectively providing Mrs L with an 
additional year of 0% interest on the transferred amount  to the benefit of Mrs L.
Finally, Barclaycard have also offered to pay £200 compensation to Mrs L for the trouble and 
upset she may have incurred here. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and I appreciate that Mrs L feels that £200 
doesnt fairly reflect the time and effort that shes had to expend trying to resolve this matter. 
However, given the full circumstances of whats happened here, I feel that the £200 
compensation amount offered by Barclaycard, in conjunction with the additional twelve 
months 0% interest rate on the balance in question, does represent a fair outcome to Mrs Ls 
complaint. And I can confirm that such an offer is commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Barclaycard to have paid if they hadnt already offered to do so.
I havent requested further information from Barclaycard to confirm whether Mrs Ls 
contentions about the misallocation of her November 2022 payments were correct or not. 
This is because, as explained previously, this service is focussed on fairness of outcome. 
And I confirm that Id feel that Barclaycards actions and offer of compensation would 
represent a fair outcome here, even if it were confirmed that Mrs Ls contentions are correct. 
In taking this position Ive considered the trouble and upset that Mrs L has experienced here, 
as shes described it to this service. But Ive also considered the additional interest free 
period which Mrs L now benefits from because of Barclaycards actions, as well as the 
general framework which this service considers when thinking about compensation amounts 
for upset and inconvenience  details of which are on this services website. And, taking all 
these factors into account, I feel that £200 is a fair compensation amount.I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs L was wanting, but it follows from all the above that 
while I will be upholding this complaint in her favour, Ill only be doing so to compel 
Barclaycard to pay the £200 compensation to her that theyve already agreed to pay. I hope 
Mrs L will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
Putting things right
Barclaycard must make a payment of £200 to Mrs L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman