DRN-1461250
The complaint
Mr C complained about the service provided by Assurant General Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) when he made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
Mr C is represented in this complaint by his father but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr C throughout 
this decision. Where I refer to Assurant, this includes its agents.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr C made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy because hed 
dropped his phone down his toilet. Assurant settled the claim and provided a replacement 
phone. In August 2019 Mr C told Assurant hed dropped his phone overboard when he was 
sea fishing. Assurant declined the claim as it said it had cancelled his insurance following his 
previous claim in June. Mr C complained to Assurant as he said hed been unaware his 
insurance had been cancelled.
Assurant said it had initially declined Mr Cs claim in June 2019 because it didnt believe the 
particular type of phone he had could be flushed down a toilet because of its size. It had 
therefore cancelled Mr Cs insurance cover as it didnt believe the phone had been lost in the 
way hed described. Later the same day Mr C retrieved the phone and provided 
photographic evidence of the dismantled toilet to show how hed done that. Assurant 
decided that as the damage had happened while the phone had still been insured, it would 
allow the accidental damage claim to be processed. However, it said it hadnt re-added the 
insurance to his account and it hadnt charged him for any insurance since then. It also said 
it had sent him a text message in early July to inform him his phone was no longer covered. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for Assurant to cancel Mr Cs insurance in June 2019 
at the same time as accepting his claim. She also said Assurant had mistakenly sent the text 
notifying Mr C of the cancellation to an old number. She said the cancellation had caused 
trouble and upset and she thought Assurant should pay £100 to Mr C to acknowledge the 
impact it had caused.
Mr C was happy with the investigators view but Assurant didnt accept it. It said it had acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy in allowing the claim for accidental damage 
and believed it was its decision whether or not to insure Mr C. As Assurant hasnt accepted 
the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy held by Mr C say that the insurer can cancel the 
insurance without notice if the policy holder doesnt pay the monthly premium when due or if 
they make a claim which Assurant believes to be fraudulent. 
Assurant has explained why it had concerns about the claim made by Mr C in June 2019. It 
said it had doubts as to whether Mr Cs phone could fit around the u-bend of a toilet due to its size and maintained those doubts when Mr C showed it photographs of the dismantled 
toilet. In light of the evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Assurant to have those 
doubts and I dont think it was therefore unfair for it to initially decline the claim and decide 
not to continue to insure Mr C. Assurant subsequently allowed the claim but this was only 
after Mr C said hed recovered the phone and he was able to return it. Assurant then 
accepted the claim as accidental damage. In the circumstances, I think this was a fair and 
reasonable thing to do.
Assurant says it sent Mr C a text message to notify him that his policy had been cancelled 
and it didnt charge him for insurance after the policy ended. Mr C says he didnt receive the 
text message and says it wasnt clear from the payments he was making for his phone that 
he was no longer paying for insurance. 
When cancelling an insurance policy, I would expect a business to make it sufficiently clear 
to its customer that theyre no longer covered and their policy has come to an end. I think 
thats even more important in a situation like this where Assurant cancelled Mr Cs 
insurance, and then maintained that cancellation despite accepting his claim soon 
afterwards. I think it should have realised that, in these circumstances, there was scope for 
confusion and it was even more important to clarify the situation.  
Assurant wrote to Mr C in early July 2019 in response to a complaint hed made about the 
first claim. It said it had upheld his complaint, accepted his claim and sent a replacement 
phone to him. This was an opportunity for Assurant to confirm that Mr Cs policy had been 
cancelled but the letter is silent on that point. 
Ive seen the account statements sent to Mr C in July and August 2019 and Assurant is 
correct in saying the mobile phone insurance that was clearly set out in the statement of 
June 2019 is not included in the following two statements. However, the statements dont 
explicitly say the insurance has been cancelled and I dont think the statements, in 
themselves, are sufficient notification that the policy has been ended.
Assurant also say it sent Mr C a text message to notify him his phone was no longer 
covered. Mr C said he didnt receive that text and our investigator noted that the text had 
been sent to a different number - Mr Cs old phone number. Assurant has said it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to keep his details up to date and the text would have been sent to the number 
it had on its records. I think thats a reasonable point but, in this case, the evidence suggests 
that Assurant knew which number Mr C was using as its recorded on his account 
statements. If there was any ambiguity I think Assurant should have used other methods of 
communication to notify him his phone was no longer insured.
In light of the above, I dont think Assurant gave Mr C sufficient notice that his insurance had 
been cancelled. Had it done so, Mr C could have made an informed choice about whether to 
take out insurance elsewhere. If hed chosen to take out insurance, he could have made a 
claim when he dropped his phone in to the sea in August 2019. 
Putting things right
I cant say Mr C has suffered a financial loss due to Assurants failure to notify him of the 
cancellation of his policy. I think it would be rather speculative to say he would have taken 
out insurance elsewhere or that any subsequent claim would have been accepted. But I do 
think Assurant has caused Mr C a certain amount of inconvenience. Our investigator thought 
Assurant should give Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable amount in the circumstances.    
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr C a total of £100 for the trouble and upset it caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman