DRN-3709461
The complaint
Mr W, a director of C, a limited company, has complained about Cs motor insurer Aviva 
Insurance Limited. Aviva has refused to pay a claim made in respect of an accident which 
involved one of Cs vehicles.
What happened
There was an accident in 2017 which Mr W believed had been caused by the driver of the 
other car. As he didnt think the driver of Cs vehicle was at fault he decided to use a claim 
management company to deal with matters rather than claiming under Cs policy with Aviva. 
However, it transpired that the other driver had suffered an unexpected, medical emergency 
whilst driving their car and so their insurer wouldnt accept they were at fault. 
With no further recourse available through the claim management company, C made a claim 
to Aviva. By this time repairs had been done and hire costs had accrued  neither of which 
the other insurer would pay for. C accepted that the Aviva policy wouldnt cover it for the hire 
costs, but felt it should cover the repair costs, which (net of VAT) totalled £6,525.54. And 
which the claim management company now expected C to pay. Aviva said it wouldnt cover 
the claim. It said C had breached its policy by not telling it until 2020 of the claim and, in so 
doing, had prejudiced its position. C complained to us.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He felt that Aviva had not shown that its position had 
been prejudiced by Cs breach of the policy terms. So he said it should settle the repair claim 
subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest*.
Aviva said it didnt agree with the findings. It said it had not been asked to evidence how it 
had been prejudiced and that as C had not paid for the repairs, it shouldnt have to pay 
interest. Our Investigator gave Aviva a chance to provide anything further it wished to, but 
nothing was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Aviva is concerned about this claim. With it only being made to it in 2020 it 
did come some three years after the event. And time can sometimes be an issue for claims. 
However, it would be unfair and unreasonable to assume that just because a claim has been 
made late, that late notification has prejudiced the insurers position. Rather if an insurer 
wants to rely on a breach of a policy term, such as that relating to notification of a claim, to 
decline a claim, it has to show it has been materially, negatively affected by the breach. 
Here Aviva hasnt demonstrated that it has been affected in this way (prejudiced). I know 
Aviva has referred to the cost of repairs. Whilst I havent seen what it would have cost Aviva 
to do the work, I take on board the explanation it has given about labour costs. In brief 
because of the agreement with the claim management company an extra cost is factored 
into the labour rates which applied to the repairs. I accept that this isnt a charge Aviva would 
usually be subject to. But that doesnt mean Aviva has been prejudiced by these costs as 
they dont determine what C is entitled to receive, or Aviva is obliged to pay, under the terms 
of the policy in question. 
I also dont think the late notification of the claim makes it necessarily impossible for Aviva to 
have investigated and validated the loss. In some circumstances, validation after so long 
might be an issue. And if Aviva had investigated and found some issue existed in that 
respect  something it could have done then but cant do now for example  then that might 
have been evidence of prejudice. But Aviva didnt seek to do that, rather it automatically 
refused liability. I think the only fair thing now is for Aviva to settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
It is often the case that this service will apply interest to awards. And we do this even in 
situations where a policyholder is not physically out of pocket for a sum. C has known it has 
had a debt to the claim management company for the repair sum and Aviva, since 2020, has 
had a claim for its reasonable liability for Cs damaged but repaired vehicle. A claim which 
I have now found it unfairly and unreasonable refused. Im satisfied that it is fair and 
reasonable for me to award interest* on any settlement sum Aviva pays to C.
Putting things right
I require Aviva to settle Cs claim for vehicle damage, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. To any settlement made, interest* should be applied from the date of 
the claim until the settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman