DRN-3519149
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost when 
he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision:
In 2018, Mr N was looking online for investment opportunities and found a 
company called Wealth Capital. He says their platform seemed easy to use and 
there were positive reviews online. So he proceeded to set up an account. From 
2019, he made various payments to Wealth Capital from different accounts, 
including the following from his HSBC current account:
Date Type Amount
10/03/2020 payment order £17,987.76
10/03/2020 debit card £4,385.27
13/05/2020 payment order £17,000
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
12/06/2020 debit card £4,506.57
Total £70,919.02
In July 2020, Mr N reported to HSBC that he thought Wealth Capital were a scam, as 
they were evading withdrawal requests. It said it wouldnt refund him as the loss 
occurred due him responding to a third party.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They thought HSBC could have identified and 
prevented the scam when Mr N made the £17,987.76 payment. But they also thought 
Mr N was partly to blame as hed proceeded despite there being information online in 
2019 about withdrawal issues concerning Wealth Capital. They recommended that 
HSBC should refund 80% of his loss.
HSBC didnt agree. In summary, it pointed out that the payments hadnt gone straight 
to Wealth Capital. It also disagreed that intervention would have made a difference  
and with how contributory negligence had been considered.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2022 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. Both parties have now responded to acccept this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, and neither have submitted anything 
new, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. For the following reasons, I 
uphold this complaint:
Its not in dispute that Mr N was scammed by Wealth Capital. The FCA published a 
warning that they were operating in the UK without the required authority  a sign of 
dishonest intentions. And what Mr N has told us about his dealings with them (such 
as their use of pressure tactics and the issues withdrawing his funds) sounds 
characteristic of a scammer. There are also reports online of others experiencing 
similar issues with Wealth Capital. Overall, Im satisfied Mr N has lost out to a scam.
Its also no longer in dispute that Mr N authorised these payments. In accordance with 
the regulations and general banking terms and conditions, HSBC is expected to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So the starting position 
is that Mr N is liable for the loss incurred. But there are some situations where we 
believe that bankstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought 
to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If HSBC failed to do so, and 
that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
I agree with our investigator that the £17,987.76 payment ought to have flagged as 
suspicious. It appears the account hadnt been used in the months prior to the scam. 
And this was a substantial payment, not in keeping with those Mr N usually made, to a 
new payee.
Im conscious that, as HSBC has noted, the payments didnt go direct to the 
scammers. Mr N has confirmed they first went to an account in his name with 
Speedybits. Hed then enter a code and within a couple of hours, the payments would 
be credited to his Wealth Capital account. His statements show that the card 
payments went to Speedybits  and the payment orders show the same reference 
containing SB. Although the payment destination wouldnt have alerted HSBC to the 
fraud risk, I still think it should have recognised this and intervened based on the 
uncharacteristic account activity.
If HSBC had asked Mr N reasonable questions, Ive no reason to doubt he would have 
explained he was acting at the behest of Wealth Capital  who had an active FCA 
warning against them. HSBC could have checked this, or directed Mr N on how to 
check this, and given him an appropriate warning about the risks and characteristics of 
such investment scams. I think this would have concerned him, and that he would 
therefore have realised it was a scam  as he did himself following further interaction 
with Wealth Capital, who pressured him throughout to pay more and more.
But for HSBCs failure to intervene appropriately, it would have been on actual notice 
that Mr N was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. So his losses ought to have 
been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, HSBC. Therefore, and taking 
into account whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, Im satisfied it can 
be held responsible for the loss.Ive also considered whether Mr N should be held partly responsible by way of 
contributory negligence. Hed seen positive reviews online when he first started trading 
with Wealth Capital  who ran a sophisticated scam. Hed had ongoing contact with 
them, and had been using their trading platform, for several months before making 
these payments. And hed made a successful withdrawal (prior to these payments, 
which recouped a small proportion of the payments made earlier from other accounts). 
All of this reassured him they were legitimate. On the other hand, hes acknowledged 
seeing reports online in 2019 about customers struggling to withdraw funds from 
Wealth Capital. I think that reasonably indicated some risk. Overall, I think Mr N was 
partly to blame, and that its therefore fair to expect HSBC to refund 80% of his losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mr N £56,735.22, comprising 80% of his loss; and
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the dates of the payments to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman