DRN-4428406
The complaint
O complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to close its business current account and 
savings account. 
What happened
O held a business current account and a savings account with TSB. As part of the terms of 
the business current account, if O maintained a certain balance there were no regular 
charges. 
On 25 January 2023 TSB wrote to O to explain it had taken the decision to close its 
accounts and gave 60 days notice. TSBs letter explained it would close the accounts on 19 
March 2023 and send a cheque with any remaining funds to O. 
Os director, Mrs H, visited a TSB branch to ask why the decision had been taken but staff 
were unable to explain. Mrs H has told us staff in branch contacted the Business Department 
but were unable to get any more information concerning why TSB had taken the decision to 
close Os accounts. Mrs H went on to raise a complaint on Os behalf. 
TSB issued a final response on 1 February 2023 but didnt agree it had made a mistake. 
TSB said it had followed the right process by giving 60 days notice of its intention to close 
Os accounts and that its decision was taken in line with the terms and conditions. TSB 
agreed to extend the closure deadline to 30 April 2023 to allow O more time to make 
alternative banking arrangements but didnt uphold its complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Os complaint. They thought TSB had acted in line 
with the relevant terms and conditions. The investigator said TSB wasnt obliged to give the 
reason behind its decision to close Os accounts and wasnt persuaded it had acted unfairly. 
As a result, the investigator didnt ask TSB to take any further action. 
On Os behalf, Mrs H asked to appeal. Mrs H said TSB had failed to follow the Principles for 
Business, in particular six and seven, which require the bank to act in its customers interests 
and treat them fairly as well as communicating in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mrs H also pointed out Os new banking arrangements meant it was incurring monthly fees 
that hadnt been charged by TSB. As Mrs H asked to appeal Os case its been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Mrs H feels TSBs decision to end its banking relationship with O was 
unreasonable and that its failed to fairly explain why. But looking at the relevant terms and 
conditions, they allow both parties to take the decision to close the accounts for various 
reasons. The terms set out some of the reasons TSB may choose to close an account but 
also say the decision can be made for any reason and that its not obliged to explain why. 
So, on the face of it, Im satisfied TSB has acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mrs H has asked TSB to give a clearer explanation setting out why it took the decision to 
close Os accounts. And Mrs H says that TSBs decision fails to follow the Principles for 
Business which require it to treat its customers fairly, act in their interests and communicate 
in a clear and not misleading way. I want to assure Miss H that Ive considered her 
comments on this point. I note the points Mrs H has raised, but Im not persuaded that TSBs 
acted outside of the Principles for Business or failed to treat O fairly. Whilst the principles 
require TSB to pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly, that doesnt 
mean it wasnt allowed to review its ongoing banking relationship with O or take the decision 
to end it. In my view, giving sufficient notice to allow O to arrange new banking facilities was 
reasonable in the circumstances. I havent been persuaded that TSB treated O unfairly. 
Ive looked at the way TSB communicated with O about its decision. Im satisfied its 
correspondence clearly explained that TSB had taken the decision to close Os accounts 
and were not misleading or unfair. 
TSB has explained it took the decision to end its banking relationship with O following a 
review of its accounts. I understand Mrs H wants a more detailed explanation, but Im 
satisfied TSB is able to take that decision in line with its commercial discretion. And, as Ive 
said above, Im satisfied the decision was communicated to O in line with the relevant terms 
and conditions. I havent been persuaded that TSB needs to provide further detail. 
Mrs H has explained Os new banking arrangements come with a monthly fee and has 
asked for compensation for the loss. But as I havent seen anything that shows TSB has 
made a mistake or treated O unfairly, I havent found grounds to award compensation on the 
basis of fees it may pay for banking services going forward. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs H but as Im satisfied TSB has followed the relevant terms 
and conditions and havent been persuaded it treated O unfairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman