DRN-4049039
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC flagged money coming into his account for 
further checks before releasing it. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr E received £6,925 into his Barclays account from an overseas 
source. The amount was intended to be used to pay a caterer for an event Mr E was 
involved with. However, Barclays flagged the incoming money for further security checks 
and sent Mr E a letter requesting proof of where the funds had come from. 
Mr E provided the proof-of-source information to Barclays as requested. But the incoming 
money wasnt made available to him until several days later, by which time it was too late to 
be used to pay for the event catering as Mr E had intended. Mr E wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr E and explained that the transfer had been flagged by their 
automated fraud prevention systems, which was an act permitted by the terms of Mr Es 
Barclays account and that as such Barclays didnt feel it had been unfair. 
Barclays also explained that in such situations, they aimed to resolve the matter within one 
working day. And, because in this instance it had been two working days from the money 
being withheld until Barclays released it, Barclays apologised to Mr E and made a payment 
of £100 to him as compensation for any upset or inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr E 
was satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response Barclays had 
issued to Mr Es complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had occurred. Mr E 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration.
In this instance, Mr E is unhappy that Barclays flagged the money coming into his account 
for further checks. But Barclays terms include that they have the right to withhold a transfer 
coming into an account if they deem it necessary to conduct further checks on that transfer. 
Specifically, their terms state:
We do not have to follow an instruction  where we reasonably think that a 
payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, scam, or criminal activity.
As such, Im satisfied it is within Barclays terms for them to have withheld the incoming 
money and required further information before releasing it. But it doesnt necessarily follow 
from the application of a term that its fair or reasonable for that term to have been applied in 
a specific situation. Accordingly, Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair and reasonable 
for Barclays to have withheld the incoming amount in question in this specific instance. 
Having done so, I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have had concerns about 
the £6,925 coming into Mr Es account. I say this because, having reviewed the statements 
for Mr Es account for the five months immediately prior to the transfer, the incoming amount 
was significantly larger than any other transfers Mr E had received into the account and was 
being received from a payee not listed on Mr Es statements previously during that period. 
In these circumstances, I dont feel it was unreasonable or unfair for Barclays automated 
systems to have flagged the account, or for Barclays to have then requested proof-of-source 
information from Mr E about this payment. And, given that within 24 hours of the transfer 
being flagged, Barclays wrote to Mr E and explained why the incoming transfer had been 
withheld and what information was required to enable its release, I dont feel that Barclays 
acted slowly or unfairly in how they initially communicated with Mr E about this matter.
Having received the letter from Barclays asking him to provide proof-of-source information, 
Mr E then provided that requested information to Barclays that same day. Mr E is unhappy 
that it then took Barclays several days to then release the money to his account, by which 
time he was unable to use the money as had been intended by the sender and himself. 
In Barclays response to Mr Es complaint, it was explained by the staff member that handled 
Mr Es complaint that its Barclays intention to try to resolve withheld funds within one 
working day of receiving any information requested by them from an account holder. And 
because in this instance Barclays didnt release the funds to Mr Es account until the second 
working day, the Barclays staff member who handled Mr Es complaint felt that Barclays 
hadnt met their own timeframe and so awarded Mr E compensation of £100. 
While reviewing the internal notes provided by Barclays regarding this complaint, its notable 
that other members of Barclays staff refer to a timeframe of ten working days after receiving 
requested information for that information to be reviewed and for the issue of any withheld 
money to be resolved. And, after liaising with Barclays about this point, its now recognised 
that the Barclays member of staff who looked at Mr Es complaint, and who awarded the 
£100 compensation to him, did so on the basis of a misunderstanding of Barclays 
timeframes, and that the correct timeframe to resolve such situations is ten working days.
In this instance, Barclays received proof-of-source information from Mr E on Thursday 17 
November and released the money to Mr Es account on Monday 21 November  which was 
two working days later. And regardless of any given timescale, this doesnt seem like an 
unreasonable amount of time for Barclays have taken to review the information provided by 
Mr E and resolve their concerns with the incoming money. As such, I dont feel that any 
further action from Barclays is merited in this regard.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr E as he 
contends here. This is because I feel it was fair for Barclays to have flagged the incoming 
transfer for further checks as they did and because I dont feel that Barclays unreasonably delayed the release of the money to Mr Es account following him providing the requested 
information about the transfer to them. 
This isnt to say that Mr E hasnt been inconvenienced or upset by whats happened here, 
and I acknowledge that he may have been.
But the potential for additional security checks to be completed on unusual incoming 
transfers is a part of modern banking  which is why its specifically permitted by the terms of 
an account. And because of this, I feel that any upset or inconvenience that Mr E has 
incurred here because of the additional security checks that I think Barclays did reasonably 
undertake on the unusual transfer coming into his account, shouldnt be considered as 
something for which Barclays should fairly or reasonably be held accountable or at fault for.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr E was wanting here, but it follows from all that above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I 
hope Mr E will understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman