DRN-3344535
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has refused to refund payments he believed 
he was making to Tradex1 using his NewDay (Amazon) Mastercard credit card.  Mr M says 
that Tradex1 were operating a scam and stole his money.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr M says:
In the autumn of 2017, he was  relentlessly pursued via telephone by an online 
trading company Tradex1 com.
They told him if he invested with them, they would offer a,  comprehensive service 
where I would be fully trained and advised by their online analysts.  Tradex1 also 
said they were authorised by the FCA.
Having looked at Tradex1s website, he,  succumbed to their tenacious overtures 
and invested £200.
He was not provided with any training and Tradex1 operated his account without 
reference to him; placing poor trades which put his funds at risk.
Tradex1 severely pressured him into investing more money, which he did in January 
2018.
When Tradex1 realised he was not going to make any further investments, they 
withdrew their support and he was not able to withdraw funds from his account.
He then discovered that Tradex1 had been operating a scam.
Mr M made the following payments using his NewDay (Amazon) Mastercard credit card:
£200 to Blonde Bear Ou Tallin East (Blonde Bear) (8 November 2017)
£891.26 (plus £24.51 transaction fee) to Alw*tradesprime Est (5 January 2018)
£601.08 (plus £16.53 transaction fee) to Blackparrotvr Podgorica Mne (10 January 
2018)
oTotal: £1,733.38
Mr M asked NewDay to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint.  She upheld it in part on the basis that 
Mr M had protection under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Another investigator reviewed the complaint again and upheld it in full.  He said NewDay 
should have considered Mr Ms first payment to Blonde Bear unusual, as a warning about 
them had been placed on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  This warning was published more than a month before 
Mr Ms first payment.  The investigator argued that despite this, NewDay did not intervene, 
provide a warning, or ask Mr M any appropriate or probing questions to uncover the scam 
concerned.  He considered that this was a missed opportunity for NewDay to intervene.  For 
these reasons, the investigator asked NewDay to refund Mr M his money.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings, but NewDay has not responded to them.  So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the second investigator for 
reasons I set out below.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below).  But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its 
predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud, below).  So, the first question to 
resolve is whether this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster. 
From what I have considered online, it appears that Tradex1 and Blonde Bear are linked.  
For example, on the FCAs website, they set out Tradex1s address as:
Address: IT&Finance, Administration services by Blonde Bear OU [emphasis added], 
Registration number 14156740, Laeva tn2, Tallinn City, Harju County, ESTONIA, 10111
I am satisfied that Tradex1/Blonde Bear were not carrying out legitimate binary-options 
trades but that they were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually 
making trades/bets with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online 
trading platform to show purported gains  with initial token pay-outs  in order to induce 
further investments from victims such as Mr M.  In the absence of evidence to the contrary, 
I have concluded this because: 
a)Prior to January 2018, binary-options, forex and CFD traders operating in the UK 
were required to be licensed by the UKs Gambling Commission  
whereas Tradex1/Blonde Bear were not.  Nor were they regulated or licensed in any 
other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware.  This indicates they were 
operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions.  Legitimate firms tend to 
comply with regulatory requirements.
b)There are several warnings specifically naming Blonde Bear on IOSCOs Investor 
Alerts Portal.  One of these was placed on 26 April 2017  more than a month before 
Mr Ms first payment to Blonde Bear on 8 November 2017.  Further, the FCA 
published a warning about Tradex1 on their website on 20 June 2018.
c)There are several reports in the public domain  e.g. foreign press and online forum 
 stating that Tradex1/Blonde Bear were scammers.  This hearsay is not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud.  But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly 
and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall 
picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity 
NewDay is aware of our general position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. 
It is common ground that the disputed payment was authorised by Mr M for the purposes of 
the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is because 
they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided by NewDay.  
These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider NewDay should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of alerts about traders published by 
the FCA and/or IOSCO.  As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicated  in 
its consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to 
expect an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff 
within, say, one month of an alert being posted by the FCA and/or IOSCO.  In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment 
being paused  pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer. 
In Mr Ms case, there were several warnings specifically about Blonde Bear placed on the 
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal.  One of these warnings was placed on 26 April 2017  
more than a month before Mr Ms first payment on 8 November 2017.  It is not 
unreasonable to expect a large firm that regularly updates its internal alerts to include 
information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission.  I accept that the warning did not specifically relate to binary-options trading; and it did not 
necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were fraudsters.  
Given the timing of the alert relative to Mr Ms payments, I think NewDay ought to have 
automatically blocked it; as it had a fair chance to update and communicate its watch-
list between the warning being published and the payment being made.  NewDay had 
constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a legitimate merchant  
therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr M before 
processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was well. 
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr M and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that he would have 
explained what he was doing.  In such circumstances, whilst NewDay had no duty to 
protect Mr M from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited him to 
check whether the payee was regulated by the FCA.  It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with merchants like Tradex1/Blonde Bear in that customers would 
often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.  After all, at that time, there was 
information in the public domain  which a bank ought to have known even if a lay 
consumer ought no  about the very high risks associated with binary options including 
many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 
scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally, and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay intervened in the disputed payments before agreeing to 
process them, when I think it ought to have.  It was a missed opportunity to intervene.
Causation 
 
If NewDay had asked Mr M what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything 
had been done over the phone and online with the merchant.  NewDay did not need to 
know for certain whether Mr M was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or 
investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for 
suspicion are enough to trigger a banks/firms obligations under the various regulations 
and principles of good practice.  I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, 
that NewDay ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the 
information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with 
unregulated, overseas binary options.  
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked more 
closely into Tradex/Blonde Bear before proceeding.  There is no evidence that he was 
willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling.  It seems 
more probable that Mr M would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams 
and whether or not Tradex1/Blonde Bear regulated in the United Kingdom or abroad. He 
could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of 
binary-options/forex scams (see above).  I am also satisfied that Mr M would have had 
concerns that the payments were being made to a company other than Bitcoin.  In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from Mr Ms credit card provider would probably have 
exposed Tradexs false pretences, causing him to stop trading and preventing the 
losses. 
Contributory negligence 
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information 
in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
In this case, I do not think that Mr M was to blame for what happened.  That is, he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr M could have foreseen 
the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam.
 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on 
the basis that Mr M should share blame for what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
propose that NewDay Ltd:
Pay Mr M all the money he lost; including transaction fees (totalling £1,733.38)  
within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Interest (less any tax properly deductible)  either (i) at the simple rate of 8% per 
year on the two payments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or 
(ii) if the account accrued interest because the relevant statement balances were not 
paid in full, interest should be paid at the rate actually charged for those two 
payments from the date Mr M reported the fraud to NewDay Ltd.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Mr Ms credit card account relating to the 
payment(s) concerned and/or interest on these payment(s), NewDay Ltd is entitled to 
repay this balance first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
If NewDay Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman