DRN-4029756
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was unfairly locked into a new National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) bond.
What happened
In 2019 Mr F opened a three year bond with NS&I. The bond terms allowed Mr F to withdraw 
the funds at a loss of 90 days interest.
Mr F was set up to receive paperless correspondence. NS&I says that means it would send 
an email to Mr F when new correspondence was available via the online account. When Mr 
Fs existing bond was due to mature, NS&I issued correspondence online that said if he did 
nothing the bond would roll over. The terms provided gave the new interest rate and 
explained no withdrawals would be allowed during the bond term after the first 30 days. As 
no contact was received from Mr F the new bond was set up in February 2022. 
In August 2022 Mr F contacted NS&I and asked to withdraw his savings from the bond. But 
NS&I said the current terms didnt make provisions for withdrawals mid term. Mr F explained 
NS&I had an old email address recorded for him and that he hadnt received maturity 
instructions. Mr F complained and NS&I sent him a final response on 7 September 2022.
NS&I didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint and said it had issued maturity documents at the end of 
his previous bonds term explaining the new rate and terms  including the restriction on 
withdrawals mid term. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In February 
2023 NS&I reviewed Mr Fs case again and a case handler contacted its Renewals Team. 
The case handler explained that Mr F hadnt received the maturity email due to a change in 
his email address and checked whether the withdrawal could be approved as an exception. 
On 3 February 2023 NS&I agreed to allow Mr F to complete the withdrawals as an exception 
and paid him the balance of his account along with associated interest accrued. 
The investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. They thought that NS&I should have considered 
the withdrawal as an exception when Mr F had originally complained in August 2022 and 
asked it to pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In addition, the 
investigator asked NS&I to cover the difference in interest between what it was paying on the 
new bond and what Mr F wouldve got with another business. 
NS&I asked to appeal and said it was Mr Fs responsibility to update his email address and 
check maturity instructions. As NS&I didnt accept the investigators view, Mr Fs case has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties broadly agree in terms of the time line for Mr Fs complaint. I understand NS&Is 
view that Mr F failed to update his email address which was outside of its control. And I also 
understand that the new terms that came into effect when the bond was set up in February 
2022 didnt allow for withdrawals outside the first 30 days. But I think the investigator makes 
a reasonable point when they say NS&I couldve considered whether it was reasonable to 
allow the withdrawal as an exception on the basis Mr F confirmed he hadnt received the 
maturity instructions. Ultimately, when that point was checked, around six months after Mr F 
complained, NS&I quickly agreed that the withdrawal could be approved as an exception. 
I appreciate NS&I has acted outside the terms. But I see no reason why that option wasnt 
considered when Mr F first complained in August 2022 and set out why he hadnt received 
maturity instructions. Had NS&I agreed the withdrawal at that point, Mr F wouldve been able 
to move his funds to another business on a different interest rate. In my view, its fair for 
NS&I to compensate Mr F for the difference in what it paid and what he wouldve got if it had 
approved the withdrawal in August 2022. 
The investigator also asked NS&I to pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Again, whilst I appreciate NS&I feels it was fairly applying the new terms of Mr Fs 
bond, Im satisfied it delayed the withdrawal by around six months. Taking the level of 
contact Mr F had with NS&I as well as the amount of money involved and inconvenience 
caused, Im satisfied that £250 fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
So Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to 
settle as follows: 
- On receipt of evidence from Mr F, pay him the difference between the interest rate it 
was paying on his existing bond and new arrangements between the date he 
requested repayment in August 2022 to the date of withdrawal in February 2022
- Pay Mr F £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman