DRN-3269670
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs F are unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined a claim on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr H and Mrs F booked a trip abroad for September 2020. On 14 March 
2020 they purchased a single trip travel policy underwritten by Ageas to provide protection 
for their holiday. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
16 March 2020, the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop non-essential 
contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. This advice was stated to be 
particularly important for those with serious health conditions. 
On 21 March 2020, GPs were asked to identify their most vulnerable patients so the NHS 
could write out to them advising them to shield to protect against the risk of contracting 
Covid-19. 
Mrs F suffers from a condition that requires her to take an immunosuppressant medication. 
This meant from April 2020 she was classed as clinically extremely vulnerable and at high 
risk of contracting Covid-19. So she received a letter from the NHS which provided strict 
stay-at-home guidance. Whilst this guidance was initially intended to apply for a three-month 
period, the strict isolation guidance for those that were high risk actually remained in place 
until August 2020.
Although the stay at home guidance was lifted in August in 2020, some restrictions still 
remained in place for those that were most high risk and clinically vulnerable. On this basis, 
on 1 September 2020, Mr H and Mrs F cancelled their trip. They werent able to recover the 
costs of their flights from the airline so they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Ageas turned down the claim because they said the policy didnt provide cover for claims 
arising from Covid-19 because it isnt an insured event. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H and Mrs F referred a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld because the policy states you shouldnt 
travel against medical advice. He said the distancing restrictions still in place on Mrs Fs 
travel dates meant she wouldve been going against medical advice if shed have gone 
ahead with her holiday  and wouldnt be covered. So, he thought it was fair and reasonable 
for Ageas to cover the claim in the circumstances. 
Ageas disagreed. They didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms and referred to
examples of cases where it considered wed agreed on this point. Our investigator 
responded and explained that the cases Ageas had referred to were factually different. 
So the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mr H and Mrs 
Fs claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Ageas has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ageas argue Covid-19 doesnt fall within one of the listed insured events on the policy. And 
whilst I agree with that, I dont think Ageas have fairly declined Mr H and Mrs Fs claim.  
Ageas said the reason for their claim is as a result of the pandemic and the travel 
restrictions. But Im satisfied the  reason Mr H and Mrs F cancelled was due to the risk 
Covid-19 presented to Mrs Fs health and the impact that would have had if shed needed to 
claim on the policy whilst abroad. 
On page 1 of their policy it states:
You must not travel against medical advice (or would be travelling against medical
advice had you sought medical advice prior to travel) or with the intention of obtaining
medical treatment or consultation abroad.
So, Ive considered the medical advice in place and what this meant for Mrs F when they 
cancelled their trip on 1 September 2020. 
The NHS advice on 27 August 2020 for those that were considered high risk was to comply 
with the following advice for safety: 
stay at least 2 metres away from anyone you dont live with.
if meeting indoors, only meeting one other household at a time. 
This means the relevant medical advice from the NHS prevented Mrs F from getting on a 
plane because shed have been unable to stay 2 meters apart from other passengers.
Mrs F has provided evidence from her treating consultant which shows she was still taking 
medication that supresses her immune system at the time she cancelled her holiday. So, Im 
satisfied she was still considered to be clinically vulnerable and high risk. 
Given Mrs Fs circumstances, and the advice from the NHS to keep her safe, I think shed 
have been travelling against medical advice if shed taken the trip as planned. As the policy 
states she cant travel against medical advice I think its likely Mr H and Mrs F may have 
understood that Ageas wouldve refused to cover her if shed travelled and claimed. 
In my opinion that leaves Mrs F in the unfair position of not being covered if shed followed 
the relevant medical advice and cancelled on that basis. But also, not being covered if shed 
travelled on a plane because this would go against the medical advice of distancing.
So I think its fair for Ageas to cover the cost of the flights Mr H and Mrs F were unable to 
use. 
  
I note Ageas has referred to other cases where they said weve reached a different outcome. 
But each case is considered on its own specific facts. And in the individual circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to cover this 
claim.Putting things right
Ageas needs to put things right by:
Covering Mr H and Mrs Fs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman