DRN-3744927
The complaint
D complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined cover for a claim it made 
on a rent guarantee and legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust in this decision, this includes a representative which 
administers claims made on the policy on its behalf.
What happened
D held an insurance policy, underwritten by Amtrust, which provided cover for legal 
expenses incurred in taking eviction proceedings against tenants, and a rent guarantee 
which would pay rent costs when tenants failed to. The policy was arranged by R.
When tenants failed to pay their due rent in 2020 and fell into arrears, D sought to claim on 
the policy for the arrears and the legal expenses incurred in trying to evict the tenants.
Amtrust declined cover for the claim. It said that a guarantor should have been added to the 
tenancy agreement, and that the claim should have been notified sooner.
D complained, and when Amtrust rejected the complaint, referred it to our service. Our 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Amtrust didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 15 September 2022, I issued a provisional decision which said, in part:
Amtrust has given two reasons why it declined cover for the claim. Its primary reason was
that the policy terms and conditions meant a guarantor should have been added to the 
tenancy agreement. It also pointed to a condition of the policy which required it be notified of 
the claim within 45 days of the tenants going into arrears.
Im satisfied I need only look at the notification clause if I conclude its unfair for Amtrust to 
rely on the lack of a guarantor when it declined cover for the claim.
The relevant policy condition says that cover will only be provided if
The insured did not allow the tenant to be in possession of the property before a Tenant 
Reference was obtained.
A Tenant Reference is defined as Checks carried out before the commencement of the 
tenancy agreement with [R] which resulted in a score of 552 or more for the tenant or their 
guarantor, or as otherwise agreed by [Amtrust].
Several points wouldnt appear to be disputed here. Ill list them individually for ease of 
reference:
The proposed tenants were two adults.
One of the adults had a score of less than 552 during the reference checks.
A guarantor was found and scored more than 552.
The guarantor wasnt added to the tenancy agreement.
Amtrust wasnt consulted, and didnt agree, to the guarantor not being added 
to the tenancy agreement. 
The reason why the guarantor wasnt added to the tenancy agreement isnt known. D 
says that Rs representative said it wasnt required.
Our investigator concluded Amtrust should be held liable for the actions (or inactions) of R in 
relation to the guarantor being added to the tenancy agreement. He said he didnt think it fair 
for D to have to make multiple complaints about different businesses, potentially falling 
under different regulatory regimes, when hed concluded the failure to add the guarantor 
occurred because of action or advice from R. He thought the fact a guarantor had been 
sourced, and checked, but not added, suggested that R had intervened and not required it.
I dont think this is right. Amtrust can only be liable for Rs actions if, during the process of 
giving advice to D, R was acting as Amtrusts agent, on its behalf and with its authority.
I dont think this is the case here. The policy condition requires that either the reference 
score is in excess of 552, or Amtrust (through its appointed claim handling representative) 
agrees to a tenant with a lower score. In addition, regulatory information on policy 
documents draws a distinction between Amtrust as the insurer, and R, which is regulated 
through a separate company to give advice on insurance.
Im satisfied that R was acting as an intermediary between D and Amtrust, not as an agent of 
Amtrust.
Im not considering Rs actions in this decision. I cant, and wont, comment on Ds position 
that the only reason the guarantor wasnt added was because of Rs advice. D may be able 
to advance a complaint against R for the advice it says it was given incorrectly when it took 
out the policy.
Amtrust still needs to demonstrate that the lack of a guarantor has prejudiced its position. I 
think this is fairly easily dealt with.
The tenant scored less than 552 on the reference check. Where thats the case, Amtrust 
says it wont cover claims unless a guarantor has scored more than 552, or its agreed to 
this. It wasnt told about it, and says it would have required a guarantor if it had been. If the 
guarantor had been added to the agreement, they would have been liable in the first 
instance when the tenants fell into arrears. Its fair to say if there had been a guarantor, then 
its much less likely a claim would have been made. I agree that Amtrusts position has been 
prejudiced due to the policy condition not being adhered to.
Im aware that Ds said that one of the reasons a guarantor wasnt required was because the 
full rent payment was coming from one of the tenants, and it was the other tenant who 
scored less than 552. Ive noted this but dont think it affects my consideration around the 
need for a guarantor. The tenant scored less than 552. Why that was, or how the rent 
payment was to be made, isnt a consideration of the policy. It merely says that there needs 
to be a guarantor, or Amtrusts agreement. I think Amtrust has concluded fairly that there 
should have been a guarantor in order for the policy cover to be in place.
As Ive concluded Amtrust can fairly rely on lack of a guarantor as having prejudiced its 
position, I dont need to consider the late notification matters as being relevant to my 
conclusion. That would only come into effect if I considered the lack of a guarantor had no meaningful effect on Amtrusts actions.
On that basis, I was minded not to uphold Ds complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust didnt respond to the provisional decision.
D responded and said they disagreed with my provisional findings. They requested an 
extension to the deadline to respond to the provisional decisions, which was granted. They 
were given until 6 October 2022 to respond. No further response has been received from D, 
or a request for a further extension.
As the extended deadline for responses to my provisional decision has now passed, Im 
issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I note Ds disagreement with my findings, they havent made any additional points, or 
provided me with any additional evidence which require me to reconsider my findings.
Nevertheless, I have reviewed the evidence available to me again, and remain satisfied that 
the outcome I reached, and the reasons for this, is a fair and reasonable outcome. Ive 
nothing further to add in terms of my findings or reasons beyond what s detailed in the 
provisional decision, the main points of which are repeated above.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman