DRN-3547654
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded an amount he paid on 
his Nationwide credit card for a package holiday.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr H bought a package holiday through an online travel agent  who I shall 
refer to as O  to travel in July 2020. The package included flights, hotel accommodation 
and transport to the hotel.
Due to UK restrictions owing to Covid-19, Mr H says he was unable to leave his city to travel 
to the airport. So he says he was forced into cancelling the holiday. He contacted O to 
request a full refund. O refunded the cost of the hotel and transfer, but it said the flights were 
non-cancellable. So it said Mr H wasnt entitled to a refund of this and referred him to his 
travel insurance provider.
Mr H says his travel insurance provider declined his insurance claim saying he needed to 
reclaim the costs from his travel provider and made reference to the Package Travel 
Regulations (PTRs). Following this, Mr H sought to recover the cost of the flights from 
Nationwide. 
Nationwide declined his claim as it said Mr H had chosen to cancel the holiday and it said 
the terms of the contract didnt allow for a refund of the flights. Mr H didnt agree with 
Nationwides decision and maintained he was entitled a full refund under the PTRs as he 
said the contract couldnt be fulfilled given he wasnt allowed to travel. He also thought the 
contract had been frustrated. Nationwide still didnt uphold Mr Hs claim so he asked this 
service to step in.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he didnt think there was anything to show O 
had breached the terms of the contract. He acknowledged Mr H wasnt able to leave his city 
under UK Covid regulations, but he said O had made the service available and it was Mr Hs 
decision to cancel the contract. And he said the terms of the contract dont allow for a refund 
of the cost of the flights.
Mr H maintained he was entitled to a refund owing to the PTRs and because he considered 
the contract to be frustrated. So he asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Hs complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr H has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way Nationwide has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point 
hes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr H, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
Mr H is complaining about the way Nationwide handled a dispute over a payment he made 
to a third party for a holiday. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made 
on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback 
and S75. I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Nationwide has done 
so in this case. Ill consider both separately.
Section 75
Mr H paid for the holiday on his Nationwide credit card. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Nationwide is jointly liable for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier - O.  
Im not persuaded the relevant circumstances are in place here for a valid S75 claim, but I 
dont think I need to make a finding on this because I dont think theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
Theres no dispute Mr H cancelled the contract himself because he was unable to travel to 
the airport and that the terms of the contract dont allow for a refund of the cost of the flights 
in these circumstances. Its also not disputed the holiday was available had Mr H been able 
to travel to the airport. However, Mr H believes the PTRs entitled him to a full refund as he 
was unable to travel. He also believes the contract was frustrated which meant O was 
required to refund the full cost of the holiday.
The PTRs sets out that, in certain circumstances, the consumer may be entitled to a full 
refund of the cost of the holiday (including flights) where the supplier is unable to provide all 
or part of the holiday. Mr has referred to guidance from the Civil Aviation Authority which set 
out:
Package holidays and cruise packages
If you are booked on a package holiday or cruise package, where you have paid for flights 
and accommodation or cruise (potentially including other elements such as car hire), then 
your holiday is protected under the Package Travel Regulations (PTRs).
Under the PTRs, if any element of your package holiday or cruise package is cancelled or 
significantly changed, then you have the right to request a full refund of any payments made 
towards your holiday. Your travel company may offer you voucher to be redeemed against a 
future booking; however you are entitled to request a full cash refund if you do not wish to 
accept vouchers. Alternatively, you can speak to your travel agent to try and organise 
alternative travel, though this may be difficult in the current circumstances.
If you are due to leave for a package holiday imminently to a destination where the Foreign 
Office has advised against travel, then under the Package Travel Regulations you have the 
right to request the cancellation of your booking and choose an alternative package or 
receive a full refund of any payments you have made to date.
However, the key issue here is that O has supplied the full package and the package hasnt 
altered. I accept Mr H wasnt able to travel to the airport, but O has fulfilled its requirements 
under the contract. There werent any significant restrictions that prevent O from being able to fulfil the contract  it was Mr Hs situation that meant he couldnt travel. And the PTRs 
dont give the right to a refund in these circumstances. 
Ive also thought about Mr Hs comments in regard to the contract being frustrated. A 
contract may be considered to be frustrated where unforeseen circumstances has made it 
impossible for it to be performed. In such circumstances the usual remedy is that the parties 
are released from their contractual obligations. The Competition and Markets Authority 
(CMA) gave guidance that the impact of Covid-19 may potentially result in a contract being 
considered frustrated where the supplier isnt able to fulfil all or significant amount of the 
contract. In such circumstances O wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Hs booking, and he should 
be restored to his original financial position by having his money back. 
However it doesnt automatically follow that the contract between Mr H and O would be 
deemed to have been frustrated. The CMA guidance issued in August 2020 set out that as 
lockdown laws and the nature of the legal restrictions they impose change over time, the 
consequences for individual contracts may become less clear-cut and more fact-specific. 
Ultimately only a court can decide how the law applies.  Ultimately only a court could decide 
whether a contract has been frustrated or not. However, the crucial point is that it needs to 
be the supplier who is unable to provide all or part of the service, or significantly changes the 
service it was contracted to provide. 
I havent seen anything to show that the supplier was unable to fulfil its responsibilities under 
the contract. I appreciate Mr H was unable to travel, but this didnt prevent the supplier from 
being able to fulfil the contract. And this is the crux of the matter. With this in mind, I dont 
think its by any means certain that a court would rule that Mr H was entitled to a full refund. 
And I think its unlikely it would do so.
However, of particular importance in respect to a S75 claim is that a frustrated contract isnt 
a contract thats been breached  its a remedy in law where a contract cant be fulfilled. 
Nationwide is only liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Ultimately, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to say that O hadnt breached the terms of the 
contract.
Chargeback 
As Mr H paid for the holiday by card, there are certain circumstances in which Nationwide 
might be able to recover his money through the chargeback process. In this instance, 
Nationwide didnt pursue the claim because it didnt think there were grounds to do so. Ive 
thought about whether it was fair for Nationwide to conclude as such.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and then raise 
a dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the individual card scheme provider.  
But, in this instance Mr H cancelled the booking. The service was available to use, but Mr H 
was unable to use it due local restrictions which meant he was unable to travel to the airport. 
I recognise Mr H felt he had no choice but to cancel, but this wasnt down to anything O did 
wrong. And, for all the same reasons I set out above, Im not persuaded that a chargeback 
would have been successful given Im satisfied O made the service was available to Mr H 
and I dont think there was anything to show he was entitled to a refund of the cost of the flights after he cancelled the contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman