DRN-3573117
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account.
What happened
Ms W had an account with Barclays. In September 2020, following a review, Barclays closed 
the account and transferred £33.65 to a sundry account. Following the closure, Ms W found 
it difficult to open a new bank account. Dissatisfied, she complained to Barclays. Barclays 
looked at this and offered to pay Ms W £150. Ms W then referred the complaint to us. She 
wants to know the reason for the closure and to find out If Barclays Bank had applied any 
adverse information to her credit record.
Our investigator looked at all of this. She thought the business could have given more notice 
to Ms W before it closed the account. She recommended Barclays pay Ms W a further £150. 
She also recommended Barclays remove any adverse information it had recorded about the 
closure with external agencies  specifically a misuse of facility marker with the national 
fraud database Cifas.
Barclays didnt agree. Ms W says she doesnt actually want additional compensation  she 
just wants the adverse information removed.
As the investigator wasnt able to resolve things informally, the complaint has been referred 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has told us her main concern is the adverse information Barclays recorded about the 
closure with external agencies. But Ive also considered the wider circumstances of what 
happened.
Financial businesses like Barclays are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they need to monitor their customers accounts and transactions 
and may need to review accounts at any time. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Barclays was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Ms Ws 
account.
Following the review, Barclays closed the account. The terms and conditions that applied to 
Ms Ws account allowed it to close the account immediately in some circumstances. In all 
other cases, it needed to give two months notice. Looking at what happened here, I see that 
Barclays wrote to Ms W on 21 September 2020 to say it was closing the account 
immediately. Where businesses close accounts in these circumstances they dont need to 
give reasons  and nor would it be appropriate for me to share these reasons with Ms W. 
But Im satisfied that Barclays was acting in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
when it decided to close it.
Ive next gone on to consider the adverse information Barclays reported about the closure. 
The guidance that applies in cases like Ms Ws says that before Barclays does this it should 
have attempted to contact the consumer to find out what was happening. But I cant see 
Barclays did this. It appears it didnt try to contact Ms W to find out what had happened until 
it reviewed her complaint. We asked Barclays if it would now like to contact Ms W to 
investigate further, but it hasnt. 
We then contacted Ms W to ask her for details about two payments into her account in July 
2020, for £2,000 and £1,995.83. Ms W says that shed received those funds to help pay for 
documentation. Shes sent us a letter she received in July 2020. This said that in order to 
receive an inheritance payment of US$500,000 from an account held in Nigeria, shed need 
to apply for documentation costing £8,500. She says her legal representative at the time 
arranged for a friend to pay the money into her account to help her pay for this 
documentation. Weve recently asked her for more details about this. She says shes now 
paid the £8,500 fee, but has experienced further delays in receipt of the funds.
I acknowledge the concerns Barclays has with the transactions Ms W has described. Ms W 
received payments from a third party, which she then appears to have transferred out of the 
account using a money remittance service  though it also appears, given the amounts she 
received compared to what she sent out, that she also sent some of her own funds as well.
But in order to register the misuse of facility marker, Barclays needed to be satisfied to the 
relevant standard that Ms W had been deliberately dishonest in receiving these payments. 
Having looked at everything, Im not satisfied that Ms W was knowingly involved in anything 
wrong  I dont doubt Ms W honestly believes that the arrangement shes describe is real. 
So I dont think Barclays had sufficient evidence to record the marker and I think it was unfair 
for Barclays to have done so.
Ive therefore thought about the impact this all had on Ms W. 
Ms W says she had difficulties opening a new bank account  but now has an account 
elsewhere. I can see that applying the marker also caused Ms W distress and 
inconvenience. And I think some of this could have been avoided had Barclays carried out a 
thorough investigation at the time.
With this in mind, I think Barclays should arrange for the misuse of facility marker to be 
removed. I also think Barclays should pay Ms W the further £150 to reflect the further 
inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Ws complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should remove the 
misuse of facility marker it has recorded against Ms W, and pay her a further £150 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman