DRN-4332527
The complaint
Mr F complains about a payment that was taken from his Nationwide Building Society credit 
card without authorisation. 
What happened
Mr F has explained that in December 2021 he contacted Nationwide after a payment was 
incorrectly debited from his account by a business Ill call T. Mr F says that Nationwide 
raised a claim and went on to refund the payment. 
On 15 December 2022 T took a payment of £149 from Mr Fs credit card. Mr F went on to 
contact Nationwide and asked it to obtain a refund. On 7 January 2023 Mr F completed a 
claim form to formally start the process of obtaining a refund. Mr F also raised a complaint. 
On 19 January 2023 Nationwide issued a final response but didnt agree it had made any 
mistakes. Nationwide said it could take two to four weeks for a claim to be reviewed and that 
staff from its Disputes Team would be in touch to request some additional information from 
Mr F about his claim. Nationwide added it had applied a merchant block that should stop 
future payments being claimed by T but explained the process isnt guaranteed. 
Nationwide says its sent Mr F requests for information about his claim but it wasnt supplied. 
Nationwide called Mr F in March 2023 and issued a follow up request in April 2023. But 
when the information wasnt supplied within 14 days the claim was closed. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Fs complaint and thought Nationwide had 
reasonably asked him to supply some additional information. Mr F asked to appeal and said 
Nationwide had failed to explain why despite make a claim for the same payment a year 
before it had allowed it to be debited again. As Mr F asked to appeal, his case has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
In response to the investigator, Mr F asked why Nationwide had allowed a payment to go 
through when hed previously raised a successful claim about the same merchant. But 
Nationwides final response explains that whilst it can apply merchant blocks they arent 
100% guaranteed. Small changes in a merchants name or account details may allow a 
payment to go through. So whilst I appreciate why Mr F is concerned that the payment was 
approved on 15 December 2022, Im satisfied Nationwide has provided background 
information the explains merchant blocks dont always work. And I think its more likely than 
not that this is whats occurred in Mr Fs case. 
Nationwide didnt decline Mr Fs claim but did ask him for further supporting information to 
allow it to review what happened. Ive looked at the questions Nationwide asked and 
information it requested. Im satisfied Nationwide asked reasonable questions and that it 
needs the information requested from Mr F to carry out the assessment of his claim. Whilst I 
understand Mr F had an ongoing complaint, he was still free to provide the information 
requested by Nationwide. Im satisfied that without further input from Mr F it was reasonable 
for Nationwide not to take the claim further. 
Nationwides final contact in April 2023 explained that if it didnt receive information from Mr 
F within 14 days it would close Mr Fs claim. Mr F is free to contact Nationwide directly with 
the information its requested to see whether its now possible for the claim to be completed. 
But I havent been persuaded it was unreasonable for Nationwide to close Mr Fs case when 
no further supporting information was provided. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but as Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman