DRN-2971181
The complaint
Ms H complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited havent fairly settled a claim under her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 March 2021 someone unfortunately set fire to Ms Hs car. The day after Ms H let 
Admiral know, and the following day her car was passed over to Admirals approved repairer 
to assess the damage. This was completed on 18 March, with the engineer concluding 
Ms Hs car was a total loss and finding some damage to the bumper  which they said 
wasnt connected to the damage caused by the fire, and that itd cost £250 to repair.
I can see they let Ms H know this on 19 March, four days after shed reported the incident, 
and when she asked about a courtesy car was told no because this was a total loss claim. 
After some back and forth Admiral offered a final valuation of £15,930, which Ms H wasnt 
happy with, so she complained about that as she didnt think it was high enough. Ms H was 
also unhappy with deductions Admiral said theyd be taking from that figure, that no courtesy 
car was provided, and how long they said theyd take to look into things. 
Admiral said for the valuation the policy required them to pay the market value, and to 
calculate that theyll look at trade guides to determine a fair value. There are three guides 
they considered for Ms Hs car  and they used the upper most value of £15,930, so they 
thought theyd treated her fairly on this. For the deductions they said theyd taken off the 
excess of £500, outstanding premium of £102.64 and pre-accident damage of £125. For the 
excess they said this was payable in the event of a claim  which Ms H had made. For the 
premium, they said if a claim is made and any premium is outstanding then this is due. And 
for the pre-accident damage their in-house engineer calculated it at £250, so as a gesture of 
goodwill deducted half of that figure, £125, from the settlement.
Admiral said a courtesy car is provided by one of their approved repairers  if the car is 
deemed repairable. But, as Ms Hs car was a total loss, and shed not taken out Hire 
Ancillary cover at the start of the policy, they didnt think she was entitled to this. Ms H also 
said she was unhappy with how long Admiral said theyd take to look into her complaint, but 
they explained theyre allowed up to eight weeks under the rules set by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Unhappy with Admirals response, Ms H asked us to look into things. She said her own 
research had shown values of up to £18,000-£19,000, and just over three years ago she 
paid around £24,000 as it was a luxury model. She added luxury cars such as hers hold their 
values really well, so she shouldnt be made to accept a £9,000 loss  and she was unhappy 
she didnt have a courtesy car for over two weeks.
One of our Investigators looked into things and found Admiral had acted fairly in the way 
theyd settled Ms Hs claim.
Ms H didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to Ms H for what happened to her car  having 
discovered itd been damaged by fire must have been a real shock.
Valuation of Ms Hs car
I can see Ms H feels very strongly that her car should be worth more, due to her own 
research.
Ms Hs policy will pay the market value of her car at the time its deemed a total loss. This is 
explained in her policy document under General Conditions and says:
10. Total loss of your car
If your car is beyond economical repair, all cover, including the driving of other cars 
extension if applicable, will be cancelled for you and any other drivers on the policy. Once 
we make a payment to you, your car will become our property. We will deduct any 
outstanding premium and charges owed from any claim settlement we make to you.
Itll help to explain that its very difficult to value second hand cars and it isnt the role of our 
service to value Ms Hs car. But our general approach is that we look to assess whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable.
To do this, we look at the valuations Admiral used when calculating their offer. We usually 
expect insurers to get valuations from motor trade guides  which is what Admiral did. These 
are used for valuing second hand cars. But well also take into account the evidence 
provided by both parties. This might include engineers reports, and information provided by 
dealers, amongst other things.
We think trade guides are generally more reliable, mainly because their valuations are based
on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional
variations. We dont find adverts particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking
prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices  and therefore provide us with a fair market
value for the type of car being assessed.
Of the guides Admiral used I can see they have offered Ms H the upper most valuation 
provided by those guides. The valuations have been calculated taking into account the cars 
general condition, and mileage  which was below the average for this age and kind of car  
so Im satisfied the valuations have been completed correctly.
I have noted Ms Hs comments about her own research showing values of up to £19,000, 
but as theyve offered the highest value provided by the guides, I cant reasonably say 
theyve acted unfairly.Deductions
Admiral have removed the excess, the cost of an outstanding premium and pre-accident 
damage noted by their repairers.
This is covered by the above term regarding a total loss claim. For the excess the motor 
policy schedule says:
If you make a claim for Fire and/or Theft, the following excess applies £500
So, Im satisfied it was appropriate for the excess to be deducted from Ms Hs overall 
settlement figure.
For the outstanding premium this too is fair. When Ms H took out her policy, she elected to 
pay for it in instalments, rather than paying the whole amount of £1,171.59 in one go. But 
that doesnt mean the total cost of her insurance policy wasnt the full amount its just that 
she paid for it in instalments. And as her claim was made in March, with her policy running 
until May, she did still have some premium payments shed not made yet. So, Im satisfied it 
was appropriate for Admiral to deduct £102.64 from the settlement, and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this figure is incorrect.
Regarding the pre-accident damage, I can see Admiral initially suggested the damage would 
cost around £250 to repair  and said as a gesture of goodwill theyd only deduct half of this 
figure - £125. That approach is in line with ours. And during our Investigators review, she 
asked Admiral to provide a full repair estimate for the bumper  which came in at over 
£1,500. So, that means Admiral could have made an argument about deducting more but 
havent. With that in mind, I think this section is fair as well.
Overall then, Im satisfied Admiral have applied the three deductions fairly.
Courtesy car  and timescale for reviewing her concerns
Ive noted Ms Hs comments regarding the courtesy car  that she was left for around two 
weeks without one.
From the notes I have, it appears she was told after four days shed not be eligible for a 
courtesy car, as hers had been deemed a total loss. I think thats fair, as effectively thats 
Admiral fulfilling their contract with Ms H by deeming her car a total loss. It seems Admiral 
completed this very quickly as well  so I cant say theyve unreasonably delayed matters.
For the timescale in reviewing Ms Hs concerns what Admiral told her is right. The FCA allow 
up to eight weeks to investigate matters. In any event, from the paperwork Ive got it appears 
Ms H raised her concerns on 1 April, and Admiral addressed them the next day. 
Overall then in this section Im also satisfied Admiral have treated Ms H fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jon PearceOmbudsman