DRN-3313811
The complaint
X complains about the way Skyfire Insurance Limited handled a third party car insurance 
claim against him and the impact that had on his annual insurance premium.
What happened
X has a car insurance policy underwritten by Skyfire. In October 2020, Skyfire were notified 
of a third party claim against X. The third party claimed X had caused damage to their car 
whilst he was parking his car in a car park.
X denied having anything to do with the accident. He said his car was completely 
undamaged and clearly hadnt been involved in any collision with another vehicle.
Skyfire asked the third partys insurer for evidence to support the claim. When this wasnt 
forthcoming within a reasonable timeframe, Skyfire chased the third party insurer on a 
number of occasions.
Eventually, in early February 2021, in the absence of any information or evidence from the 
third party insurer, the claim was closed.
Xs policy was due for renewal on 17 February 2021. He was understandably keen that the 
completely unsubstantiated third party claim was removed from the record and wouldnt 
affect his annual premium going forward.
Given the unfortunate timing, X had been quoted a renewal price by Skyfire whilst the claim 
was on-going. That quote took into account the open third party claim in the calculation of 
the premium. At over £1,500, this was more than three times Xs previous annual premium.
Skyfire told X that, on 10 February 2021, the records relating to the third party claim had 
been removed from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database used by all 
insurers. The claim had been closed as raised in error, because there was no evidence at all 
that there had been an accident. X took it that the third party claim would not be taken into 
account in any calculation of future premiums  by Skyfire or any other insurer for that 
matter.
X says that Skyfire then sent him a renewal quote priced at £738.88. His previous annual 
premium had been £435.95. He says the information he was sent by Skyfire at that point 
listed the third party claim as a non-fault accident.
He says it wasnt until 16 February 2021, after hed queried this with Skyfire, that their 
records were amended and all information relating to the unsubstantiated third party claim 
was removed. By that time (the day of expiry of his insurance policy), he had no choice but 
to accept the renewal quote from Skyfire, despite the seemingly large and unexplained 
increase in the premium.
X complained to Skyfire. They said they were obliged to keep the third party claim open 
whilst the third party insurer was given a reasonable opportunity to obtain and provide 
evidence to support the claim. They said their records were appropriately amended once 
theyd closed the third party claim. And they said the increase in Xs premium was not 
caused by the third party claim.
X wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think Skyfire had done anything wrong.
X disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I didnt agree with the outcome proposed by our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision. This allowed both X and Skyfire a chance to provide further information or 
evidence and/or comment on my thinking before I make my final decision in this case, which 
is this services last word on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view that it wasnt unreasonable for Skyfire to record 
the fact that the third partys insurer contacted them to pursue a claim. Nor was it 
unreasonable for Skyfire to keep that claim record open until the third party insurer 
had had a chance to collect and provide evidence to substantiate that claim.
The timing of this was very unfortunate for X, given the renewal date for his policy. 
But I cant say Skyfire did anything wrong up until 10 February, when they decided 
the claim should be closed down due to a lack of evidence from the third party 
insurer and told X that the records relating to that claim would be removed.
I should also say that its not for us to tell insurance underwriters how to price their 
policies. The car insurance market is very competitive, and customers are free to 
seek to buy cover elsewhere if they arent happy with the price offered by their 
current insurer.
X has made it clear, in his communications with us, that hes very well aware of that 
and is familiar with comparison websites which can identify the best-priced option for 
potential customers.
His point is that by the time he had gone back to Skyfire to clarify what information 
they held  given what appeared in his renewal quote (i.e. a record of the claim but 
recorded as non-fault)  it was 16 February before Skyfire seem to have done what 
they promised on 10 February and removed the record.
It is beyond any doubt at all that the price of a car insurance policy will increase the 
closer the customer is to the renewal date on their existing policy. The experts 
appear to agree that the optimum time to seek competitive quotes for car insurance 
is around three or four weeks before expiry of the current policy. In most cases, 
prices rise very sharply in the last week or two before the renewal date.
So, X was always going to be at some sort of disadvantage when he renewed his 
policy. Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for Skyfire to have the claim record 
open until around 10 February. And that claim record being open would significantly 
affect the prices being offered. X therefore only had 7 days or so to test the market and see what prices he could get after the claim was closed  some way short of the 
optimum three to four weeks.
I can see how that would be frustrating for X. It seems clear he wasnt involved in the 
alleged accident  theres absolutely no evidence at all to suggest he was. And yet 
the price of his insurance would increase because the claim was open until a week or 
so before renewal.
However, I cant hold Skyfire accountable for that. If there was an open claim, they 
are obliged to report it. And they are entitled to take it into account when they offer 
customers a quote.
There are two remaining issues here, however. One, the third party claim appears 
not to have been fully and properly removed from Xs record until 16 February  six 
days after they told him it was to be deleted.
That cost X another six days before he could seek quotes from other insurers. 
Because in that time, he had to go back to Skyfire, having not unreasonably 
assumed that the record hadnt yet been fully deleted. And those six days would 
make alternative quotes from other underwriters very much more expensive.
That leads us to the second issue. In my view, its not unreasonable for X to say that, 
by 16 February (the date of expiry of his current policy) he had no effective choice 
but to renew with Skyfire. Other quotes  obtained last minute  would undoubtedly 
be very high. And all would have been well, if his premium had at least not 
significantly increased from the previous year. Instead, it went up by just over £300 
(or by around 70%).
This quite reasonably led X to conclude that Skyfire must have factored the 
seemingly spurious third party claim into the calculation. Its difficult to see  with 
another years no claims discount too  how the sharp increase could otherwise be 
explained.
Skyfire have pointed out to us that their calculations of premiums to be offered on 
renewal  or indeed to new customers  are complex. A large number of factors will 
be taken into account and will impact the price offered.
These will include not only factors which are personal to the customer  whether 
theyve had any recent claims, for example  but also more general data  for 
example, about the likelihood of claims being made by customers with certain makes 
or models of car, numbers of recent claims in a particular area or by drivers of certain 
ages etc.
I absolutely accept that. And as Ive said, its not for us to tell underwriters how to 
price their policies or what factors to take into account when making those 
calculations.
However, Skyfire havent provided us with any indication of why Xs premium rose 
quite so steeply. They tell us he changed his car in the previous year and that will 
have had an impact on the premium. I can see that, but its clear that when X 
changed his car  only five months into his previous years cover  the price rose by 
£26.80 for the year. For the remaining seven months, thats about £4 per month. And 
that makes an increase of about £48 for a full year. Xs premium in fact went up by 
more than £300.Skyfire have said that their underwriting calculations are so complex and multi-
factorial that its impossible for them to explain to us how and why Xs premium has 
increased so sharply. They havent pointed to any particular factors, used in the 
calculation, which have changed significantly when compared to their value or 
weighting the previous year.
So, Xs increase in premium remains entirely unexplained. Skyfire are essentially 
asking us  and X  to take it on trust that the increase wasnt caused by the 
cancelled third party claim being taken into account in any way at all. But they 
havent provided any alternative explanation as to how the increase was triggered.
Im sure Skyfire will understand why Im not going to simply accept that assertion 
without any supporting evidence or explanation at all. On the face of it, I cant see 
any immediate or convincing reason why Xs premiums would have increased so 
steeply on renewal unless the third party claim has had some effect on the premium 
being charged.
This is a provisional decision, so Skyfire now have the chance to provide further 
information to explain the increased premium. To be clear, I dont need detailed 
calculations, and we dont need commercially sensitive algorithms to be set out in 
full. But I do need some indication as to what factors (other than the third party claim) 
caused the increase.
In the absence of any such explanation, Im minded to uphold Xs complaint. Im also 
minded to require Skyfire to provide a refund on Xs premium, so that it mirrors the 
premium he paid in the previous year (adjusted to account for the change of car, of 
course)  and to pay X £100 for his trouble and upset.
I fully understand that Xs premium on renewal would not have exactly matched his 
previous years premium, given the number of variables involved in Skyfires 
calculations and the changes in Xs circumstances (including an extra years no 
claims discount).
However, Skyfire have pointed out that its impossible now for them to recreate the 
calculation that would have been done when X renewed his policy, so I am left with 
making a best estimate. And the previous years premium is not an unreasonable 
benchmark to take, especially since this was recalculated mid-way through the 
previous year when X changed his car.
And I said that for those reasons, I was minded to uphold Xs complaint and to require 
Skyfire to refund the difference between his 2021/22 premium and the previous years - and 
pay him £100 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
The responses to my provisional decision
X replied to my provisional decision. He provided further evidence that if hed sought 
insurance elsewhere early in 2021, he would have been given a similar price to the previous 
years premiums, assuming he didnt declare the on-going claim.
Skyfire didnt provide any further information or evidence  or comment on my thinking - in 
response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided by X in response to my provisional decision simply serves to 
further confirm my point that the increase in premium applied by Skyfire appears not to be 
explained by any other change in Xs circumstances or in the general data used by Skyfire to 
calculate their pricing.
I can only assume Skyfire didnt respond to my provisional decision because they cant point 
to any change in Xs circumstances or in the more general data that underpins their pricing 
decisions - other than the non-fault claim they still had on record when they quoted X their 
renewal price  to explain why Xs premium increased so significantly.
Im satisfied that my provisional decision invited Skyfire to provide any such explanation for 
the increase. And that it made it clear that if they could tell me what other factor(s) had 
caused the increase, I would re-consider the position. 
In the absence of any such explanation from Skyfire, I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that the seemingly spurious third party claim was 
still included in Skyfires records when they came to offer X a renewal price and that it was 
taken into account in the calculation of that price.
So, I havent changed my mind about the outcome of Xs complaint.
Putting things right
As I said in my provisional decision, its not unreasonable to assume that if Skyfire hadnt 
taken the third party claim into account, they would have quoted X a renewal price at 
somewhere close to the same amount as his previous years premiums.
Xs premium in February 2020 was £435.95 (including a £50 administration fee). That was 
adjusted when he changed cars in July 2020, by around £4 per month. So, calculating the 
annual premium for the second car, that would amount to £483.95 (£435.95 plus £48).
Skyfire charged X £738.88 (again including a £50 administration fee) at renewal in February 
2021. 
So, they should pay X a refund of £254.93 (£738.88 minus £483.95). Im going to add 
interest at 8% simple to this since X has in effect been deprived of that money since renewal 
on 17 February 2021.
And as I said in my provisional decision, Im also going to require Skyfire to pay X £100 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset. He had the inconvenience of chasing Skyfire about 
the spurious claim still appearing in their records after 10 February 2021. 
Hes also had the stress and frustration of not knowing how the higher premium charged in 
February 2021 had been calculated and why it had increased so significantly. And the worry 
that it might be maintained at that level and might impact his future premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Xs complaint.
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must:
refund X £254.93 of the annual premium he paid in February 2021; pay 8% simple interest on that amount, from 17 February 2021 until the date the 
refund is paid to X; and
pay X £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman