DRN-1569145
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wont compensate her for faulty furniture she 
bought with credit it provided.  
What happened
In October 2017 Mrs B bought two sofas from F, a retailer. She says that they came with a 
15-year guarantee and that it agreed to treat the sofas with stain guard and to plump the 
cushions every six months. To pay for the sofas, Mrs B took out a loan with Hitachi Capital, 
under arrangements it had with F.  
In April 2019 Mrs B stopped making payments to Hitachi Capital. She said that the sofas 
were faulty, as the frames were creaking, and filling material was leaking from the cushions. 
Because of the finance agreement, Mrs B said that Hitachi Capital was liable for the 
problems. F had by then been placed into administration and was no longer trading. 
Hitachi Capital arranged for two inspections of the sofas, in April and July 2019. The first 
found no fault with the sofa frames. The second noted that there were problems with the 
cushion filling. Hitachi Capital offered to replace the cushion interiors or to pay Mrs B £352, 
so that Mrs B could do so herself if she wanted to. Mrs B didnt accept that offer. She said 
shed raised the issue with F within 30 days of taking delivery of the sofas, and so she ought 
to be entitled to reject them and receive a full refund. She referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened, but thought that, overall, Hitachi 
Capitals offer was fair. She noted that she hadnt seen any evidence that there was a 15-
year guarantee or that F had agreed to treat the sofas with stain guard or plump the 
cushions. The first inspection had found no fault with the sofa frames, and the offer in 
respect of the cushions was a reasonable one. Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings 
and asked that an ombudsman review them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have however reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar 
reasons.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a finance provider in certain 
circumstances is liable to a buyer of goods or services to the same extent as the supplier. 
Its not in dispute that section 75 applies here and that Mrs B can bring certain claims 
against Hitachi Capital to the same extent she could against F. Its not disputed either that, in 
certain respects, the sofas were not of satisfactory quality. The main issue I must consider 
therefore is whether Hitachi Capitals offer represents a fair resolution of Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B said that shed had problems with the sofas from the outset, including that they were 
the wrong size. Shed contacted F almost immediately, but it had gone out of business. 
Unfortunately  and as the investigator noted  Mrs B hasnt provided much evidence of 
what was agreed with F. There is, for example, no evidence of a 15-year guarantee or any 
service agreement or even a description of the sofas. Similarly, Mrs B hasnt provided any 
evidence of her contacts with F after she took delivery of the sofas. I note she says that she 
was in touch within 30 days of delivery, but that F went into administration. In fact, it appears 
that F was placed into administration in around June 2018, some eight months after Mrs B 
bought the sofas.
In the circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly conclude that the sofas were the wrong size 
or that F was in breach of any agreement about ongoing maintenance of them. 
Mrs Bs agreement with F wasnt however limited to the express terms they agreed. Under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a consumer contract for the sale of goods is taken to include 
a term that goods will be of satisfactory quality  which includes durability. Mrs B says that 
the sofas werent of satisfactory quality and refers specifically to the frames and filling. 
As far as the frames are concerned, I note that an inspection was carried out in April 2019. It 
didnt reveal any defects. In the circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly conclude that there 
was a problem. 
The second inspection, however, did reveal a problem with the filling, which was leaking 
from the cushions. Hitachi Capital offered to repair them or to provide sufficient 
compensation so that Mrs B could arrange repairs. She says however that she should be 
able to reject the sofas, having raised the issue with F almost as soon as she took delivery. 
In some cases, consumers do have the right to reject goods if they dont conform to the 
contract  including where they arent of satisfactory quality. Generally, that right should be 
exercised within 30 days of delivery. In this case, whilst Mrs B says she contacted F within 
that time, Ive seen no evidence to support that, and I note that it was some 18 months until 
she contacted Hitachi Capital; even then, the defect that was identified was one that wasnt 
likely to have been obvious on delivery. 
In my view, therefore, the appropriate remedy here is a repair of the sofas to bring them 
back to the condition in which they would have been, but for the problem with the cushion 
filling. Thats what Hitachi Capital has offered to do, and I believe its offer represents a fair 
resolution of Mrs Bs complaint. I shall simply leave her to decide whether, on reflection, she 
wants to accept it.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman