DRN-3066897
The complaint
The Estate of the late Mr E complains about the way Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon 
(referred to here as Aegon) distributed his pension when he died.
The estate is represented by Mr Es daughter (Miss E). 
What happened
Mr E had a personal pension with Scottish Equitable trading as Aegon, worth around 
£128,000 which was in a drawdown plan. Mr E was divorced from his wife and lived alone, 
away from his family. 
Mr E had told Miss E that when he passed away he wanted her to oversee the distribution of 
his pension, which should be split with one half going to his ex-wife, Miss Es mother, and 
the remaining half being split equally between Miss E and her two siblings. In May 2015     
Mr E had written a letter containing his wishes to be opened in the event of his death, and in 
December 2016 Mr E completed a drawdown form, in which he nominated Miss E as 
beneficiary of his pension once he passed away. 
Mr E sadly died in December 2018 and Miss E notified Aegon. They said that when 
someone died their pension benefits are paid at the discretion of the scheme administrator. 
But before making that decision they asked for details of Mr Es potential beneficiaries. Miss 
E said she, her two sisters and her mother were the only beneficiaries. They returned the 
relevant forms and identification documents to Aegon for consideration as beneficiaries. 
Aegon informed Miss E and the other beneficiaries the scheme administrators decision was 
they wouldnt benefit from Mr Es pension. They had decided to follow Mr Es last death 
benefit nomination form from October 2018 nominating a charity to receive 100% of his 
pension funds. Miss E said her father had suffered from depression and hadnt been in a 
sound state of mind. Hed made some irrational financial decisions over the years, resulting 
in his bankruptcy. She felt Aegon knew his history, so shouldnt have accepted the new form 
as hed always intended his family to benefit from his pension. Miss E provided evidence of 
her fathers mental health and the May 2015 letter setting out Mr Es wishes. 
Aegon reviewed the evidence but didnt change their mind. So Miss E brought her complaint 
to this service with the agreement of the other family members who were potential 
beneficiaries of Mr Es pension.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She understood the 
difficult and upsetting time Miss E and her family had been through. She accepted Mr E 
might have suffered from depression and the other conditions Miss E mentioned. But the 
terms of the policy give the trustees discretion to distribute a policy as they see fit, taking into 
consideration whether the policy holder has financial dependents. She understood Miss E 
would be disappointed, but she thought it wasnt unreasonable of Aegon to make the 
decision they had. Miss E is adamant Mr E would have wanted his family to be looked after, 
so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to express my condolences to Miss E and her family on the loss of her father 
who I understand she was particularly close to. And Ive carefully considered all the 
information shes provided about Mr Es health, state of mind and financial situation. But Im 
not going to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reason as the Investigator. 
Ive not gone into detail about some of the personal information Miss E has shared with us 
about her father to ensure the parties cant be identified, but Id like to reassure her Ive read 
everything even if I dont specifically refer to it. 
Pension plans arent part of an individuals estate. So Aegon, as the administrator of the 
plan, has the responsibility or discretion of deciding who receives the death benefits. They 
had to take into account but werent obliged to follow Mr Es wishes noted in his beneficiary 
nomination form. This is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy effective from 
March 2018. Section 10 explains in the event of the policy holders death the benefits will be 
paid out according to the scheme rules. 
The terms say Aegon would consider a non-binding nomination form and also a letter of 
wishes (provided its in a format acceptable to them) when making the decision. And clause 
10.8.8 says they will accept a nomination in favour of a charity, but they may decide to pay 
the benefits in whole or part to an individual. Overall it makes clear death benefits are 
payable at our discretion as the scheme administrator. We will exercise our discretion with 
the rules. 
The drawdown form Mr E completed in December 2016 included a section in which he could 
change or nominate a beneficiary for the first time. This section said:
I note that the scheme administrator has absolute discretion about which of the 
beneficiaries named below (if any) it chooses. This nomination is only an expression of my 
wishes and isnt binding on the scheme administrator. I note that I can change my 
nomination by filling in a new form. The scheme administrator will then look at the last-dated 
form received before my death.
So when Mr E nominated Miss E to receive 100% of his pension he knew the form wasnt 
binding on Aegon, they could make the decision as they saw fit. It makes clear if Mr E had 
completed more than one nomination form Aegon would only look at the latest one. And the 
May 2015 letter which was only to be opened once Mr E died, hadnt been submitted to 
Aegon in advance nor had Mr E checked it was in a format acceptable to Aegon as required 
by the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think Aegon was obliged to follow it, but they 
would consider it alongside other evidence when exercising their discretion. 
Mr E updated his wishes by completing another nomination form in October 2018 changing 
the beneficiary to a charity. As this was the last-dated form received before his death its the 
one Aegon took account of when making their decision. Although they werent obliged to 
follow it when exercising their discretion. 
When Miss E notified Aegon of her fathers passing it sent out claim forms to establish if 
Mr E had any dependents at the time. I can see Miss E has defined herself on the form as 
Mr Es next of kin (daughter). A dependent was defined as follows:
Spouse or civil partner; 
Any child under the age of 23 or one who has reached that age but are financially 
dependent on the member;A person financially dependent or mutually interdependent with the member; 
Dependent on the member because of physical or mental impairment.
Although theyd been married for 25 years, Mr E and his ex-wife had been separated for 
many years. They hadnt applied for degree absolute and remained on good terms but 
considered themselves divorced, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Aegon also to have 
treated Mr E as being divorced. The terms and conditions document says that in the event a 
member becomes divorced a court order may apply to your plan.. Email correspondence 
from 2015 mentions an informal agreement that Mr Es pension would be shared 50/50, but 
this hadnt been formalised by the court or notified to Aegon. In the circumstances I cant say 
it was unreasonable of Aegon not to consider Mr Es ex-wife a beneficiary. 
As Miss E and her two siblings are all older than 23, they dont meet the definition of 
dependent child, they didnt live with him and neither were they financially dependent or 
mutually interdependent on him. So Mr E had no dependents when he died. 
While Aegon wasnt obliged to follow Mr Es latest beneficiary nomination form, in this case 
they decided to do so, after giving due consideration to the statements and evidence 
provided by the relevant parties and being satisfied Mr E had no dependents. Ive seen 
cases where the nomination form isnt followed, if for example a dependent child comes 
forward who wasnt born at the time the form was completed. But in this case Aegon 
considered it was appropriate to follow the last-dated nomination form rather than the earlier 
form from 2016 nominating Miss E or the May 2015 letter of wishes. Its not the role of this 
service to replace Aegons discretionary decision making with our own. But I cant say their 
actions in following Mr Es last known wishes were unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss E said about Mr Es frame of mind and mental health 
over the years exemplified by financial decisions the family considered irrational, and which 
ultimately resulted in him becoming bankrupt and having to return to the UK from abroad. 
She says these should have alerted Aegon that he wasnt capable of making a rational 
decision to change his pension beneficiary. Miss E also explains that many of the assets 
mentioned in the May 2015 letter no longer existed at the time of Mr Es death as evidence 
Mr E wasnt of sound mind. 
I accept Mr E had a diagnosis of a mental health condition and suffered with depression, but 
generally people are assumed to have capacity unless clear evidence shows otherwise, or a 
professional says so. Mr E was aware his financial circumstances had changed since 2015 
so may have thought it appropriate to review his previous decisions about his pension. And 
however questionable Mr Es family found some of the things he did, I dont think they would 
be enough for Aegon to treat him as lacking capacity. The emails Miss E shared with Aegon 
in which Mr E advised various parties of how he was feeling show an awareness of his 
situation and that he was able to interact with others. I think this suggests he didnt meet the 
criteria for lacking capacity such that Aegon should disregard his decisions and wishes or 
require he appoint a representative or attorney to manage his affairs.
I understand Miss E and her family have found this situation hard to come to terms with in 
addition to coping with their grief. But while I realise this will come as a disappointment, for 
the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly uphold this complaint as I dont think Scottish 
Equitable (trading as Aegon) has done anything wrong in how it distributed the benefits from 
Mr Es pension.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman