DRN-3356717
The complaint
Miss C complains Erudio Student Loans Limited have added arrears to her loan with them 
when they shouldnt have. Shes also unhappy with a number of customer service related 
issues.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
From the information Ive got in November 2019 Miss C contacted Erudio with concerns 
about arrears being applied to her account when she says they shouldnt have been.
Miss C has a student loan with Erudio, which can be deferred if she meets certain criteria, 
and returns deferment forms each year when due. This means no arrears apply, or interest 
is added, when a deferment has been accepted by Erudio within the relevant time period.
Miss C also raised concerns regarding the customer service shed received from Erudio. She 
said she was unhappy Erudio hadnt called her regarding the deferments when they didnt go 
through  and that she didnt qualify for an extended deferment on medical grounds. She 
also said one of Erudios advisers was rude, and another asked for medical information 
which she didnt feel comfortable with, because he wasnt a medical professional. And she 
was unhappy at speaking to a debt collector, when she thought she was calling Erudio back.
Erudio said they received Miss Cs latest deferment form on 8 October 2019, and initially 
didnt have evidence of her income which they needed. They said this was subsequently 
provided, so they backdated the deferment  meaning no new arrears had accrued. Erudio 
said Miss C had disputed arrears that occurred before 2017 but said a complaint had already 
been considered by our service, and wed agreed those arrears were fair. So, overall, they 
didnt uphold this element of her complaint.
Erudio said our service had previously considered the issue of them not phoning Miss C, and 
said while they would call more frequently now, their primary method is still post. They did 
though accept theyd made some errors regarding their handling of calls with Miss C  
specifically as one call handler said Miss C might qualify for a three year medical deferment, 
but a later call handler said she likely wouldnt as she was working. They didnt find though 
the call handler was rude, but could see theyd recorded some medical information on her 
file, when shed specifically asked they didnt. For these customer service issues, they paid 
Miss C £100.
Miss C asked us to look into things. Ultimately one of our Investigators started looking into 
her complaint in November 2021. In December 2021 he first asked Erudio if any arrears had 
been applied since December 2017. He also asked for notices of incomplete deferments, or 
that payments were due  along with the relevant contact notes.
Our Investigator then contacted Erudio a further three times, with no reply. So, he issued an 
outcome saying as Miss C had said Erudio had applied arrears unfairly, and as hed been 
provided no evidence to dispute that, Erudio should refund any arrears from 
10 October 2017. 
He provided his outcome to both parties, but Erudio didnt reply by the deadline. The 
complaint was then passed to me to decide.
Before finalising my thoughts Erudio replied. They explained no arrears had been applied 
since 10 October 2017, until the final response letter issued on 9 January 2020. They 
provided details of how theyd supported Miss C when she told them about her medical 
condition. And they explained due to an error on their systems theyd stopped sending 
Miss C letters  which included the deferment forms. So, theyve now rectified this meaning 
letters will go out again and backdated the deferment from 9 October 2020 until 
9 October 2022.
As Erudio provided this information, even though it was very late, Im required to take it into 
account when deciding a fair and reasonable outcome.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain some elements of what Miss C asked us to consider in this 
latest complaint arent points we can look into. A previous final decision by another 
Ombudsman in March 2017 said arrears up to that point were fine. And, a final response 
letter from Erudio was issued in May 2018 giving an outcome which also covered arrears.
But I can consider any arrears not addressed by a previous response  such as those Ive 
mentioned above  up to the date of Erudios final response to this complaint. So, with that in 
mind, I can consider arrears from 10 October 2017 (the last date covered by Erudios 
response in May 2018) up to 9 January 2020 when Erudio issued this complaint response.
I should also add my understanding was Miss C was only asking us to look into the arrears 
she said had accrued on her account, and no longer wanted us to consider her customer 
service issues. But, as those issues have been mentioned in her complaint to Erudio, Ive 
addressed them here for completeness.
Deferments
Erudio have a process for deferments which require their customers to provide certain 
information and return it within the time period specified.
As Ive set out above, from what I can see Miss Cs main concern is regarding the arrears 
that have accrued on her account. Erudio have provided evidence to show no arrears have 
accrued since October 2017. Ive not been given any information from Miss C to dispute that, 
so it seems no arrears have been applied since October 2017.
Any other arrears Miss C has on her account, were seemingly accrued before that. And, as 
Ive mentioned above, our service has previously considered those arrears  deciding it was 
fair they were applied. I cant overrule another Ombudsmans decision.
So, taking everything into account, for the arrears I had authority to look into between 
October 2017 and 9 January 2020, Ive seen no evidence any have been applied. That 
means I cant ask Erudio to refund something that seemingly hasnt been applied. In effect, 
Miss C is receiving the same outcome from me as from our Investigator. Hed said any arrears that had been applied need to be refunded  but as we now know none have been, 
Erudio likely would have just got in touch with Miss C, and said none had been so there were 
no arrears to refund.
Ive also noted Erudio have said a system error meant Miss C wasnt receiving paperwork for 
the deferments. Thats unfortunate, but it seems Erudio have backdated any deferments 
from 9 October 2020, until 9 October 2022. This means effectively no arrears have been 
accrued between 10 October 2017, for five years. I cant make a formal finding on the 
arrears between October 2020 and October 2022, so if Miss C wanted to complain about 
Erudios actions here, she could do so. Though, as Erudio have backdated the deferments, 
she may decide thats unnecessary.
Customer service issue
I can see Miss Cs first concern here is when information needed for the deferment isnt 
received by Erudio, rather than phoning or emailing her, they write out to her in the post. 
Miss C has explained she works away from home at times, so doesnt always get Erudios 
letters.
While I can understand itd be more convenient for Miss C to have received a call, Erudios 
process is post which theyve made clear to her on several occasions from the notes I can 
see. I cant require Erudio to change their processes, I can only say if theyve treated Miss C 
fairly  and given this is their standard process, I think they have. 
The call where Miss C said the agent was rude and abrupt took place in October 2019. Ive 
not been provided with a copy of this call, which isnt surprising given how long ago the call 
took place. But, Ive seen a copy of the notes recorded at the time. I can see from those 
notes its recorded the discussion is about whether an extended medical deferment can be 
applied  and Miss C has been gathering medical evidence after earlier calls. The call 
handler on this occasion advised if someone is still working, which Miss C was, then it wont 
usually be granted. The notes reflect Miss C wasnt happy with this and said at this point the 
call handler was stressing her out and interrogating her by saying this.
Erudio have explained they only offer extended deferments on medical grounds in a limited 
set of circumstances, and that despite those earlier conversations, Miss C didnt meet those 
circumstances. So, although I think it was unhelpful of Erudio to have raised Miss Cs 
expectations, and she was put to some trouble in getting some information to support an 
extended medical deferment, theyve treated her fairly in saying this. And the notes recorded 
dont reflect what Miss C has said about the call handlers attitude, which Erudio have also 
said. So, although I cant know for certain, on balance I think its more likely than not Erudios 
call handler did handle the call appropriately. Thats not to say I disbelieve Miss C, but I 
simply dont have the evidence to support it  and I suspect the shock at being told the 
medical deferment wasnt likely, given her earlier conversations, made her very unhappy. I 
do think Erudios call handlers before this hadnt handled things well, so Ill think about 
whether the £100 theyve awarded is enough for this and any remaining issues at the end.
I do also think its disappointing Erudio recorded Miss Cs medical information when they 
shouldnt have. But, Ive not seen anything to show Miss C was aware of this, so although 
theyve made a mistake, the impact to her was limited because she didnt know about it 
beforehand  though I can appreciate shed likely not have been happy when she did find 
out.
The remaining two issues are that an adviser in 2017 asked Miss C for lots of medical 
information, which she wasnt comfortable with. Erudio have said their staff are trained to get as full an understanding as possible when someone wants their medical information to be 
considered for a longer deferment  which is what I believe this call was in relation to.
Again, Ive not been provided with the call given the passage of time, but I think Erudios 
explanation seems reasonable. If someone wants their medical information to be taken into 
account for Erudio to take actions, it seems reasonable enough information is provided. Im 
sorry to hear how uncomfortable this made Miss C feel, but I cant say Erudio did anything 
wrong  and if she wasnt comfortable sharing information, then she doesnt have to. As I 
understand it, Miss C didnt share all of the information, because Erudios case handler 
wasnt a trained medical professional. 
The last issue is Miss C received a call from Erudio, and a message was left. She was asked 
to call back, but the number rang a different company  who were a debt collector. Miss C 
say this caused her distress, as she thought her account had been passed to a debt 
collector.
Erudio explained the debt collector is part of the same company  and its just that the call 
handler gave the wrong number for Miss C to call back. I think that was unhelpful, but it 
seems to have been cleared up fairly quickly. The call was answered by people in the same 
office. So, although initially a shock, again I think the impact would be somewhat limited.
Summary
In respect of the deferments, Erudios processes, and how theyve handled some of Miss Cs 
calls, I wont be requiring them to do anything further.
I do think Erudio unfairly raised Miss Cs expectations when talking to her about the potential 
for a three year extended deferment  as well as recording Miss Cs medical information 
when they shouldnt have, and giving her the wrong number to call, leading to her thinking 
her loan had been passed to a debt collector.
Erudio have already paid £100 to reflect these concerns. And, taking everything into 
account, I think thats a fair amount to resolve this complaint  so I dont require Erudio to do 
anything further on these issues either.
Responses to my provisional decision
Erudio replied, and said they had nothing further to add.
Miss C discussed issues with our Investigator, including whether we could look at the 
previous arrears  which he reminded her we couldnt due to another Ombudsman issuing a 
final decision. In that conversation our Investigator let Miss C know she had until 8 March to 
reply to my provisional decision. He then confirmed this by email, after Miss C asked when 
the deadline was to reply.
By email, Miss C said the previous submission isnt valid due to her health issues and should 
be reconsidered  and the excess charges are unjustified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought about what Miss C has said  but as Ive explained above, the charges Miss C is 
referring to were considered by a previous Ombudsman. Once a final decision has been 
issued then it cant be reconsidered.
So, although I understand Miss C feels very strongly the previous charges were applied 
unfairly, I simply dont have the authority to look into them.
As Erudio didnt have anything further to add, and Miss C hasnt provided me with any 
further information regarding the complaint I can look into, Ive seen no reason to change my 
provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman