DRN-3837760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance only provide one 
party with information relating to their joint account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B opened a savings account with Kent Reliance around June 2021. Around July 
2022 Mr and Mrs B complained to Kent Reliance. This was because they said Kent Reliance 
has been providing information about their joint account solely to Mr Bs email address; and 
when they asked that all information be sent to them both as the account is in joint names, 
they were told this wouldnt be possible. 
As Kent Reliance didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, they referred it to our service for 
consideration.
Our investigator reviewed the details and didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and 
conditions of the account confirmed that all information would be sent to the primary account 
holder. He therefore concluded Kent Reliance hadnt made an error and didnt need to take 
any further action to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators outcome. In summary, they maintained their 
position that as the account is held in joint names all information should be sent to both 
parties. Theyve said their argument isnt that Kent Reliance acted outside of the terms and 
conditions of the account; but that its not fair or reasonable that only one party receives the 
information; and that this puts the other party in a vulnerable position as they could be 
subject to deception and potential loss of funds. 
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs account, to see what Kent 
Reliance ought reasonably be expected to do when sending information about their account.
Under the section titled 4. Joint accounts it states:
4.5 Under normal circumstances, we will send all information regarding the account to the 
first named account holders registered correspondence address (or if applicable the 
Operators address) exception in the case of an actual or potential dispute)
Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have made Kent Reliance aware of an actual or potential 
dispute. So, Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the account provide for Kent Reliance 
to send all information to the first named account holder, in this case Mr B. And therefore, 
Im satisfied Kent Reliance hasnt made an error in relation to the management of how it has 
provided information to Mr and Mrs B. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B accept Kent Reliance hasnt acted outside of the terms and 
conditions of the account; but that they feel that Kent Reliance ought to send all information 
to both parties on a joint account and that this request is perfectly reasonable. While I 
understand their position and the reasons why they feel information should be sent to both 
parties, I cant conclude Kent Reliance should do so. 
Kent Reliance is entitled to set its own policies and procedures, including the terms and 
conditions associated to its account. Doing so is a legitimate use of its commercial 
judgement and not something our service would usually look to interfere in. 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to the terms and conditions when opening the account and Im 
satisfied, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, that Kent Reliance hasnt made 
an error in the way it sends them their account information. 
It therefore follows that as Im satisfied Kent Reliance hasnt made an error, there is no 
further action for it to take in resolution of this complaint. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B. My decision here is not 
saying that their request for information to be sent to both parties is an unreasonable one; 
but that I cant find Kent Reliance has made an error in how it sends information to them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman