DRN-2705872
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold mobile phone insurance when he bought his phone.
What happened
In 2019 Mr H complained to a retailer that in 2013 it mis-sold him mobile phone insurance 
when he bought a mobile phone at one of its stores. He says the sales person told him he 
had to have insurance to get a phone contract and as he was only 18 years old at the time 
he didnt know otherwise. Mr H says if hed known insurance was optional he wouldnt have 
bought the policy. He says around 2019 a family member told him he didnt need to buy 
insurance as a condition of buying a phone. He wants the retailer to refund the policy 
premiums of £12 a month over nearly two years, plus interest.
The retailer said given the time passed it couldnt investigate the policy sale but the policy 
would have been clear Mr H could cancel the policy. It also said Mr Hs history of taking out 
phone contracts and insurance showed he wouldnt have thought he had to take out 
insurance to buy a phone. The retailer offered Mr H £20 as a goodwill gesture in its final 
response letter but its now withdrawn the offer.
Our investigator said the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr H disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made my decision I asked the retailer for the 2013 policy document. The policy said 
the retailer was acting as the policy administrators agent for the sale of the policy. The 
policy administrator was Asurion Europe Limited.
The retailer raised that Mr Hs complaint relates to the sale of the insurance which was 
conducted by it as a non-regulated entity under the connected contracts exemption so it 
said we couldnt consider the complaint.
We contacted Asurion and told it under the policy terms we considered that the retailer was 
acting on its behalf in the sale so Asurion was the correct business for the complaint.
Asurion said it wasnt responsible for the policy sale and any complaint should be against the 
retailer. It also said the retailer sold the policy under the connected contracts exemption so 
we couldnt investigate the complaint..
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought we could investigate the complaint 
and Asurion is the correct business for the complaint to be about. I said:
The connected contracts exemption allows companies supplying non-motor goods or 
services (or providing services relating to travel) to carry out insurance distribution activities 
which would cover the sale of insurance  without being subject to regulation.
This only applies if the firms main line of business doesnt otherwise consist of carrying on a 
regulated activity, and provided certain criteria concerning the contract are met. The rule 
would widen the benefits of insurance cover for straightforward policies without imposing the 
burden of regulation on businesses that wouldnt otherwise require it.
Asurion says:
Asurion didnt sell the insurance policy
the policy was sold by the retailer under the connected contracts exemption. The 
retailer was not acting under Asurion's regulatory authority
Asurion has authorisation to distribute insurance and does so by connecting the 
connected contract seller with the insurer in a distribution chain, which is the only 
regulated activity Asurion performs in respect of this insurance
the sale by the retailer is exempt from regulation and we cant investigate a complaint 
about the sale of the policy.
I dont need to make a finding about whether the policy sale by the retailer does meet the 
connected contracts exemption.
Thats because I think Asurion is responsible for the actions of the seller. And I think we can 
investigate a complaint about the sale against Asurion. Ill explain why.
When considering our jurisdiction I have to consider the rules that govern our jurisdiction - 
the DISP Rules. DISP 2.3 says this service can consider a complaint under the compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more 
specified activities. This includes not just the activities listed but also ancillary activities 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
The guidance to this section (DISP 2.3.3.G) says Complaints about acts or omissions 
include those in respect of activities for which the firm ...is responsible (including business of 
any appointed representative or agent for which the firm ... has accepted responsibility).
The policy documents say Asurion is the administrator of the policy and The seller is (the 
retailer) who act as the administrators agent for the sale of this policy.
So the policy says the retailer was selling the policy on behalf of Asurion. In other words, it 
was acting as Asurions agent. I dont see how a different interpretation can reasonably be 
placed on the situation here other than that an agency relationship existed (even if that 
wasnt the intention).
The connected contract exemption may apply to the retailer if their main line of business 
doesnt otherwise consist of carrying on a regulated activity. But Asurion is not in that 
category  its an insurance intermediary.
In this case the regulated activities Asurion carries out appear to include (although arent 
limited to) assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of insurance and 
arranging (bringing about) deals in investments. Thats defined as making arrangements for 
a person to buy a general insurance contract.
Its clear from the other things that Asurion is regulated for (and the nature of its business) 
that the main focus of its business involves regulated activities, so the connected contracts 
exemption doesnt apply to Asurion.Although the policy was sold by the retailer Asurion is responsible for their actions. So 
Asurion is responsible for the sale. And a sale by Asurion isnt covered by the exemption 
which means this is a complaint we can consider against Asurion.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr H was pleased that I thought the complaint could be considered. He said he wouldnt 
waste time complaining if he thought the policy hadnt been mis-sold. He also said that when 
the retailer responded to his complaint it told him it couldnt provide proof that he got the 
welcome pack and policy document.
Asurion said:
while its historic policy wording was not as clear as it would like and does give the 
impression that the retailer was acting as agent under Asurions regulatory 
authorisation, that wasnt the case
the retailer had never been Asurions appointed representative for the sale of its 
insurance policies
I did need to decide whether the retailer was operating under the connected 
contracts exemption for the sale of the policy. Asurion said the retailer was operating 
under the connected contracts exemption so couldnt have been operating as its 
regulatory agent/appointed representative and it wasnt responsible for the retailers 
acts
Mr H had made three complaints to the retailer about information provided at point of 
sale - two about the 2013 policy and one about a 2019 policy. It asked when Mr H 
had complained to us about the 2013 policy and whether he had complained within 
the relevant time limits set out in the DISP Rules we operate under.
My second provisional decision
After considering the parties comments I issued a second provisional decision. I said it was 
still my view this was a complaint we could investigate against Asurion, and I went on to 
consider the merits of the complaint. I set out my findings as follows
Asurion says the policy wording gives the impression that the retailer was acting as agent 
under Asurions regulatory authorisation but that wasnt the case. However, Ive not seen 
any evidence to support that the retailer wasnt Asurions agent. The policy documents say 
The seller is (the retailer) who act as the administrators agent for the sale of this policy and 
that Asurion is the administrator of the policy.
Asurion may not have intended for the retailer to be its agent in the sale of the policy but the 
policy says the retailer was selling the policy as Asurions agent. As Ive said, I dont see how 
a different interpretation can reasonably be placed on the situation other than that an agency 
relationship existed.
If I thought that the retailer was responsible for the sale of the policy then I would have to 
consider whether the connected contracts exemption applied to the retailer. But Ive 
explained why I consider Asurion is responsible for the sale, carried out by the retailer on its 
behalf. Ive detailed above why I dont think the connected contracts exemption applies to 
Asurion and its not raised any objection on that point.
This complaint is about the policy Mr H bought on 20 July 2013. DISP 2.8 says we can't look at a complaint if it was made more than:
six years after the event complained of; or if later
three years from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, of cause for complaint.
Mr H complained to the retailer on 5 July 2019, so he complained just within six years after 
the sale of the policy and within the time limits. The retailer sent Mr H a final response letter 
on 16 July 2019 and Mr H complained to us on 17 July 2019, so within the relevant time 
limits set out in the rules for when he needed to complain to us.
For the reasons Ive given above it remains my view that the complaint is in jurisdiction and 
Asurion is the correct business for the mis-sale complaint to be about.
The merits of the complaint
As the complaint is one we can look at, Ive gone on to consider the substance of the 
complaint.
The complaint concerns the sale of an insurance policy sold to Mr H at the same time as his 
mobile phone. I need to decide whether its more likely than not that the policy was mis-sold 
to Mr H.
Mr H says he clearly remembers being told he had to have the policy when he bought his 
mobile phone. His testimony is evidence but I also need to look at the other available 
evidence to make my decision.
Asurions agent (the retailer) sent us the relevant standard policy document for the 2013 
policy sale. I note it originally told Mr H the welcome letter and policy sent to him wasnt 
available but Ive no reason to think it hasnt sent us the correct policy.
The policy says:
We hope youre happy with (the retailers) Phone Insurance but you can call, email 
or write to us to cancel it at any time and your cover will finish at the end of the paid 
period. Cancel in the first 28 days and well refund your premium as long as you 
havent made any claim.
So I think the policy was clear that Mr H could cancel the policy at any time if he wanted to.
Asurions agent doesnt have the welcome letter it specifically sent to Mr H attaching the 
policy and given the time passed its reasonable for it not to have the letter. But its sent us 
the welcome letters it sent to Mr H for two other policies he took out with it which attach the 
policy documents. So I think its more likely than not that a welcome letter attaching the 
policy would have been sent to Mr H in 2013.
While I cant be sure what was said during the policy sale in store in 2013, I think the 
documents would have made clear to Mr H that he could cancel the policy.
In addition, Mr H had four phone contracts through Asurions agent:
first phone with insurance from July 2013 to February 2015 (the policy sale 
complained about)second phone with no insurance from February 2015 to January 2017
third phone with insurance from December 2016 to December 2018
fourth phone with insurance from December 2018 ongoing as at July 2019.
I think if Mr H thought he had to take out insurance with a phone contract he would have 
done so when he upgraded from the first to second phone. Mr H said he hadnt complained 
about the insurance for the first phone sooner than 2019 because it was only then that hed 
been told by family he didnt need to have insurance. If that was the case, when he changed 
to his second phone Mr H would have still thought he had to take out insurance for his 
second phone, but he didnt take out a policy.
Also, Mr H had the benefit of the insurance cover on his first phone. He didnt make a claim 
but he would have been covered if hed needed to make a claim, subject to policy terms. 
From the information Asurions agent provided it looks as if Mr H claimed on subsequent 
policies. Although he didnt make a claim on the first policy he still had the benefit of cover.
Looking at the overall evidence I dont think Mr H was mis-sold the policy in July 2013.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Neither Asurion or Mr H responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my second provisional decision I have no reason to change 
my mind. For the reasons given in my provisional findings and these findings it remains my 
view that this is a complaint we can look at against Asurion but the policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Asurion Europe Limited is one that we can 
investigate but, for the reasons given, I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman