DRN-3812000
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In August 2022 Mr R was sadly the victim of 
a scam. 
Shortly after having responded to a phishing text message he was contacted by a scammer 
pretending to be from HSBCs fraud team. The scammer was able to gain Mr Rs trust and 
persuaded him to use his HSBC debit card to purchase cryptocurrency. The payment in 
question was for £1,300. At the time Mr R believed his finances were at risk and so he 
followed the instructions the scammer gave. 
The cryptocurrency was purchased via Mr Rs existing account with an exchange Ill refer to 
as B. Mr R was then tricked into sending all his cryptocurrency (including the recent 
purchase from his debit card) to the scammer. 
When Mr R realised hed been the victim of a scam he reported this to HSBC. He also 
complained that they hadnt done enough to protect him. Ultimately HSBC declined to offer a 
refund. Mr R referred his complaint to our service where it was considered by one of our 
Investigators. She didnt recommend that HSBC needed to take any further action. Mr R 
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made detailed submissions in support of his complaint. Ive read and considered 
all hes said, but I wont be responding in similar detail. Ill keep my findings to what I believe 
to be necessary to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Where a payment is disputed, whether it is authorised is important. Mr Rs complaint form 
records that I was tricked into using my HSBC debit card to purchase £1,300 of 
[cryptocurrency], which was maliciously redirected under instruction by the fraudster. 
Further to this during the call where Mr R reports the scam to HSBC, he again confirms that 
he made the payment himself, albeit at the instruction of and under the influence of the 
scammer. As such, Im persuaded that Mr R authorised the £1,300 payment to his account 
with B. Whilst he didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, he is initially presumed 
liable for the loss. 
HSBC have obligations to act in their customers best interests and to be alert to fraud and 
scams. Mr R believes his payment was so unusual that HSBC ought to have blocked it and 
called him before processing it. Ive considered this, but I dont agree. Clearly, there is a 
balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers to 
freely spend their money. Generally, Id only expect a bank to interfere in a customers 
payment instruction if it were sufficiently unusual to indicate that their customer might be at 
risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr R had made numerous payments to the same merchant in the months prior to the scam. 
These included a payment of around £1,500 in December 2021. Taking this and all the other 
activity on Mr Rs account into consideration, I dont consider the £1,300 payment made as a 
result of the scam to have been so unusual that its reasonable to have expected HSBC to 
have done anything more before processing it. 
Mr R says that the previous £1,500 payment was a one off and so shouldnt be taken into 
account when considering what usual activity is. He also says HSBC failed to intervene in 
that payment too. Firstly, that payment wasnt made as the result of a scam, and so there 
was no obligation for HSBC to intervene in it. And secondly even if it had been part of a 
scam, I wouldnt consider it sufficiently unusual to warrant intervention. Its also reasonable 
to take all of Mr Rs previous account activity into consideration. The December 2021 
payment indicates that, from time to time, larger payments outside the regular monthly 
spend were made on his account
Ive also considered Mr Rs points that the payment was made whilst in his overdraft and 
took him to just beyond its limit and that it was to a cryptocurrency exchange. But this 
doesnt change my mind as to whether its reasonable to expect HSBC to have done more. 
The payment was broadly in line with previous spending on his account and I dont agree it 
stands out as sufficiently suspicious or unusual. Its also a decision for HSBC as to whether 
they decide to allow a customer to go beyond their agreed overdraft limit, and I dont think 
them allowing Mr Rs account to go slightly beyond this was unreasonable. 
As Ive concluded there was no error by HSBC in processing the transaction in question, Ive 
gone on to consider if there is anything else they should have done to try to help Mr R 
recover his loss when he reported the scam. HSBC told Mr R to speak with B directly which I 
think is fair. In these circumstances, there wasnt an option for HSBC to pursue in relation to 
a chargeback that could have assisted Mr R. The payment went to Mr Rs own account with 
B and there is no suggestion that it wasnt exchanged for cryptocurrency, its just that Mr R 
was tricked into sending that on to the scammer and this isnt something a chargeback 
would be able to assist with. 
Mr R has also mentioned the Lending Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM). This is a voluntary code through which victims of authorised push payment 
scams can sometime receive redress from the banks involved. But unfortunately, as the 
payment relevant to this complaint was made using a debit card (which is a pull payment) 
then the CRM doesnt apply and cant be used as a basis to tell HSBC to do more. 
Similarly, Mr R believes he should be refunded as he didnt act with gross negligence. I 
accept that Mr R didnt act with gross negligence in the circumstances of this complaint. And 
I also accept that he has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam. But the regulations I 
believe Mr R is referencing refer to unauthorised transactions. Broadly speaking the relevant 
regulations say that a consumer shouldnt be held liable for unauthorised transactions unless 
theyve failed with gross negligence or intent to keep their security credentials safe. But as 
Ive covered above, in this case Mr Rs payment was authorised. So the fact that he didnt 
act with gross negligence, doesnt mean that HSBC need to provide reimbursement. Im sorry to hear of the impact being the victim of a scam has had on Mr R. And whilst I 
accept he was genuinely tricked, it would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to refund him if 
they are responsible for failures which caused or contributed to the loss (or hindered its 
recovery). And as I dont think they are, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell 
them they need to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman