DRN-2037842
The complaint
Mrs G complains about an unsuccessful chargeback raised by Bank of Scotland Plc.
What happened
Mrs G paid a deposit for a new kitchen on her Bank of Scotland debit card. Very soon after 
she paid this deposit she decided she no longer wanted to go ahead. She explained she had 
felt pressured into signing the agreement for the kitchen. She was also worried when 
researching the business she had signed the agreement with. She asked to cancel the 
contract within seven days but the retailer refused. Mrs G asked Bank of Scotland to raise a 
chargeback.
Bank of Scotland raised a chargeback and credited Mrs Gs account with the funds. It 
explained this may be reversible and told her that the retailer had to respond within a specific 
time limit. The retailer did respond and defended the chargeback. It said it intended to supply 
and fit the kitchen Mrs G had paid for. Bank of Scotland said it followed the chargeback 
process and started pre-arbitration actions. At this point the retailer had sent in a copy of the 
contract to say that it cannot be cancelled if it was signed in the premises. Bank of Scotland 
said at this point the chargeback wasnt successful and it debited the money from Mrs Gs 
account.
Mrs G complained. She explained she signed a contract in a shop but because of the way 
the company is set up she doesnt believe it could be classed as a premises of the business 
on her contract. So, she felt she had cancelled it within the terms of the contract. Bank of 
Scotland said it had followed the chargeback rules, but that it did give Mrs G some incorrect 
information about timescales. So it paid her £62 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Bank of Scotland had followed the 
rules for a chargeback which are set out by VISA. She also thought the compensation for the 
incorrect information was fair and reasonable.
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman. She believes she should be able to cancel 
the contract and doesnt think Bank of Scotland has made a decision based on the evidence 
she has provided. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback isnt an obligation, its not guaranteed to succeed. Its something that a card 
scheme  in this case VISA  operates. Its a process that allows a card issuer (Bank of 
Scotland) to request money is returned for a number of specified reasons. The request goes 
to the merchant (the kitchen retailer). If a chargeback is requested in the time limits, a 
merchant can defend or accept it. If a merchant defends the chargeback, then its unlikely it 
will be successful. 
Bank of Scotlands role here was to raise the chargeback as Mrs G requested it to. And it did 
this. The rules set out by VISA are strict. There are only certain reasons a chargeback can 
be successful. Bank of Scotland raised the chargeback. At this point, the kitchen retailer had 
to submit its own evidence to VISA to defend or accept the dispute. I can see it defended the 
dispute and it told VISA that it would be supplying and fitting the kitchen. Bank of Scotland 
explained this to Mrs G which was fair.
At this point, Mrs G explained to Bank of Scotland she had tried to get through to the retailer 
but it wasnt returning her calls. She also provided evidence to show there were different 
company names on the contract and on companies house. She felt this was enough to show 
that the contract should be cancelled. Bank of Scotland took this evidence on board and 
started to gather information for pre-arbitration. This would mean it would ask VISA to make 
a decision. I think this was fair in the circumstances. But there are very specific reasons for a 
chargeback to be successful. And once the retailer had submitted further information, I think 
it was right that Bank of Scotland didnt continue to arbitration. This is because the retailer 
was able to provide evidence to show the contract couldnt be cancelled as it was signed in a 
showroom. And the cancellation period was only available to customers who signed the 
contract off site. 
I understand that Mrs G believes that the show room was off site because of the way the 
retailer company is set up. But it isnt my role to determine what the kitchen retailer has done 
here. Its my role to see whether Bank of Scotland followed the chargeback process fairly. 
And I think that it did. VISA provides specific reasons and criteria to help banks determine 
whether a chargeback would be successful under its rules. Bank of Scotland could see that 
after the chargeback was defended on two occasions that it wouldnt have been successful 
under the VISA rules. And I think its acted reasonably in telling Mrs G this.
I do understand that Mrs G still hasnt had her kitchen fitted, but unfortunately a chargeback 
can only be raised once. Im pleased that Bank of Scotland has given Mrs G the details of 
other organisations that may be able to help her. For the reasons Ive explained above, I do 
think Bank of Scotland has acted reasonably and has followed the chargeback process as 
far as it could.
Bank of Scotland said it told Mrs G that the retailer had 45 days to respond to the 
chargeback, when in actual fact it was 32 days. I dont think this made any difference as the 
retailer defended the chargeback within the correct timeframe. But Bank of Scotland did 
compensate Mrs G with £62. I think this is fair and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
A chargeback is something that is run by the card scheme (VISA), and I can see Bank of 
Scotland ran through the process in line with these rules. I think it acted reasonably 
throughout the chargeback process so Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman