DRN-3358364
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SFAS) failed to transfer 
some pension savings to an alternative provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought that the compensation SFAS had already paid to Mr P was sufficient. Both 
parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include 
some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr P held pension savings with SFAS. Those savings had moved to SFAS following 
a transfer (that was not directed by Mr P) from another firm that was exiting from the 
pensions market. In January 2020, Mr P was approaching 75 years of age, and so 
was required by legislation to put his pension savings into payment. SFAS didnt offer 
its customers a drawdown option, so Mr P asked for his pension savings to be 
transferred to another provider that I will call H.
SFASs records show that it received that transfer request from H on 26 February 
2020. It says that the amount due to be transferred was £138,894.68 and that it 
raised the request to its finance team on 17 March. But, the request was not actioned 
until 28 April  SFAS has been unable to establish the reason for the delay. However 
on that date SFAS only transferred £130,894.68 to H.
H contacted SFAS on a number of occasions to attempt to trace Mr Ps missing 
funds. Due to the discrepancy in the transferred amount it wasnt able to identify the 
receipt of any funds. Mr P then noticed the error in the transferred amount and H 
asked SFAS for the missing funds. A further £8,000 was transferred to H on 18 May.
When it first investigated Mr Ps complaint SFAS accepted that it had caused a 
significant delay in making the transfer. So it paid him £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. Mr P didnt think that compensation was sufficient 
so he brought his complaint to this Service.
 
Before we had looked into Mr Ps complaint SFAS conducted a further review and 
concluded that it hadnt fully compensated Mr P for the losses that the delay had 
caused. So it paid him a further £1,557.65 that it calculated as being 8% simple 
interest for the period of the delay  from 26 February to 30 April 2020. It also offered 
to consider whether Mr P had suffered any losses due to the delayed investment of 
his pension monies. It asked H to provide it with information about what had 
happened with Mr Ps pension savings after the transfer.
It has proved difficult for SFAS to get the information it needs to make that 
calculation. H, quite properly, sought Mr Ps consent to release that information. But it 
seems that Mr P didnt fully understand what H was asking and so only provided his 
consent in relation to what happened before the transfer. More recently he has said 
that H can provide the information that SFAS needs and so I will consider that aspect 
of the compensation alongside what Im asking SFAS to do, to put things right.
I think I should first clarify that this complaint is between Mr P and SFAS. So that 
means that I cannot consider what happened before Mr Ps pension savings were 
transferred to SFAS  should Mr P be unhappy about that transfer he would need to 
raise a complaint against the original provider. And it also means that I cannot 
consider the actions of H during the transfer process in 2020  although as I will 
explain later I think the responsibility for the delays sits entirely with SFAS.
SFAS has accepted that it didnt progress Mr P transfer to H in a timely manner. It 
hasnt been able to explain the reasons for the delays, or why the amount it originally 
transferred was incorrect. But I dont think those explanations are necessary for me 
to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion on this complaint. I appreciate that Mr P 
might be interested in what went wrong  but I havent seen anything to suggest 
SFAS is deliberately withholding information about that. I think the problems must 
simply be put down to human error.
 
Based on the information that I have seen SFAS has accepted responsibility for the 
delay in the transfer of Mr Ps pension savings from 26 February to 30 April 2020. 
I think that is a reasonable estimation of the delay that was caused, albeit I do 
acknowledge that £8,000 of the transfer was delayed by a further two weeks. But, for 
the reasons I will explain below I dont think that additional delay caused any further 
losses to Mr P.
I have looked carefully at what Mr P did with his pension savings after they had been 
transferred to H. Immediately, Mr P used part of the transferred amount to take a 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash). But 
the PCLS was based on the incorrect transfer amount  potentially Mr P could have 
taken a further £2,000 of PCLS. But it seems to me that additional PCLS is still 
available to Mr P and so might be taken in the future. And the uncrystallised funds 
are available to him to invest as he sees fit. So I dont think I need to consider that 
delay any further.
The remainder of the transferred monies, after the PCLS had been paid, were 
available for Mr P to invest. I can see that during the remainder of 2020 he invested 
£40,000 of those funds in three tranches. All his investments were into the same 
managed fund. He invested £10,000 on 15 May and 29 June, and £20,000 on 
19 October. But it appears the balance remained uninvested during the rest of 2020.
I cannot reasonably conclude that any of Mr Ps investments were delayed by the 
late receipt of the funds. A period of two weeks elapsed before the first investment 
was made, with far longer periods before the other two investments. And, of course, 
a large proportion of the transferred monies remained uninvested at the end of the 
year. I accept it is possible that Mr P might have chosen to make some investments 
during the time the transfer was delayed. But given the unpredictable nature of the 
timing of his investment decisions I cannot reasonably say that was likely. So on 
balance I dont think the delays in the transfer of Mr Ps pension savings meant that 
he was prevented from making investments once the funds had safely reached H.
I appreciate that what I have said here doesnt reflect Mr Ps testimony about the 
growth he might have received had he been able to invest his pension savings 
sooner. I appreciate that he might consider that investment conditions had worsened 
during the delay, and hence explain why he chose not to invest all the transferred 
monies during 2020. I invite Mr P to provide me with any evidence he thinks appropriate to support his testimony that he would have invested the whole 
transferred amount immediately had the transfer taken place in a more timely 
manner.
But otherwise I think that the compensation SFAS has offered to Mr P is reasonable. 
I can see that it offered him £1,000 to reflect the trouble and upset that these delays 
caused to him. And it made a further payment of £1,557.65 in respect of interest on 
the delayed funds. I dont currently think it would be reasonable for me to expect 
SFAS to do anything more to put things right for Mr P.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. SFAS has said that it doesnt have any additional comments to make. 
Mr P hasnt provided us with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I think 
that the compensation SFAS has offered to Mr P is reasonable. I can see that it offered him 
£1,000 to reflect the trouble and upset that these delays caused to him. And it made a 
further payment of £1,557.65 in respect of interest on the delayed funds. I dont think it would 
be reasonable for me to expect SFAS to do anything more to put things right for Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint but I think that the compensation that 
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has already paid to him is sufficient. So SFAS 
doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman