DRN-3704532
The complaint
Miss D complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her motor 
insurance policy claim.
What happened
Miss Ds car was damaged in an accident which wasnt her fault, and Advantage decided 
that it was uneconomical to repair. They paid her £3,470 for its market value, less a £50 
deduction for its pre-accident condition. They also reimbursed her for a child car seat.
Miss D thought that her car was worth more than that. She said she couldnt buy a like for 
like replacement for that. She was also unhappy with Advantages customer service. 
Advantage agreed to compensate her £50 for that. 
The investigator thought that Miss Ds complaint should be partly upheld. She thought that 
Advantage s valuation was fair as it was in line with motor trade guides, but that Advantage  
should compensate Miss D an additional £100 for their delay in valuing her car. Advantage  
agreed to this, but Miss D didnt and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cars value 
The investigator explained to Miss D our approach regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the 
trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. We find these guides to 
be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. That other evidence might include advertisements detailing 
the sale prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the 
advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices. 
Ive looked at Miss Ds policy and it says that the most Advantage will pay is the market 
value of the car. They define this as the cost of replacing the car with one of the same make, 
model, age and condition at the time of the accident or loss. The policy allows them to use 
the trade guides to assess the market value, making any necessary allowances for the cars 
mileage and condition. This is in line with our established guidance.
Advantage deducted £50 from the £3,470 market value they offered her because the cars 
seats were soiled. They did so after inspection and photographic evidence which supports 
that, so I dont think it was unreasonable . We think it fair for insurers to make deductions for 
a cars pre-accident condition, as this can affect what they can obtain for the cars salvage. 
Ive looked at how Advantage valued Miss Ds car. Theyve showed us that theyd valued it 
at the date of loss under two guides, which gave valuations of £3,470 and £3,069. So the 
£3,470 they offered her was the higher of the two. As Advantage followed our established 
guidance for assessing a cars market value via the trade guides valuations taking into 
account her cars model, its below average mileage and its features, I think that was fair.
The investigator did her own check on the trade guide valuations taking into account those 
same features and mileage at the date of the incident. She obtained valuations of £3,470, 
£3,225 and £3,175. As Advantages settlement figure is the highest of those, I think that 
confirms that their valuation amount was fair and was correctly made according to our 
approach. 
Miss D provided adverts of similar cars to hers, but which she says lack the features her has. 
They dont support the level of valuation she is looking for. And, in any event, as Ive said 
above, Im satisfied that Advantages valuation has taken into account her cars model, its 
features and its below average mileage, and adverts dont always reflect the true market 
value of a car.
Miss D also provided an email from her garage specialising in sales of her cars make, 
saying that her cars value had increased and the guides were out of date, and an article 
saying that prices of second hand cars had increased greatly in the last few years. As the 
investigator  explained, we are aware of the demand for used cars and the impact on sales 
and Ive considered what her garage have said, but Im not persuaded by it. The policy 
requires Advantage to value Miss Ds car at the date of the loss and the guides are updated 
monthly and so are based on monthly sales data. And so Im more persuaded by the values 
given in the motor trade guides. I think that Advantages offer represents a fair market value 
of the car and so I dont require them to pay any more for it. 
Too long to deal with claim
Miss D said that Advantage took too long to deal with her claim. After her accident Miss D 
had at first reported her claim to a company which was impersonating Advantage. So she 
incurred recovery and storage and hire costs with that company. When she reported the 
claim to Advantage, well after the incident date, that company were resistant to transferring 
the matter to Advantage until Advantage paid them their outlays. 
Miss D thinks that Advantage should have acted more quickly to transfer her claim and her 
car to them. But I dont think it would be fair to expect Advantage to have done that. 
Whatever the reason for Miss D contacting the other company first, it wasnt Advantages 
fault. Nor was it their fault that the other company incurred their costs on her behalf. The 
policy required Miss D to report it to Advantage immediately after the incident. If shed done 
that, Advantage would have had control of the matter from the start. So they would have had 
the chance to minimise what recovery, storage car hire or other costs, if any, they incurred. 
But Advantage agreed to her transferring the claim to them and paying the other companys 
costs in order to help her. 
However I do think that once the claim was under Advantages control they could have had 
her car valued more quickly. I think that delay caused her avoidable inconvenience. 
Putting things right
So I think that Advantage should pay Miss D £100 to reflect that delay in progressing the 
claim, and the inconvenience of that. This is on top of the £50 compensation Advantage 
offered her for the service provided by their engineer and I which I think is fair. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I partially uphold this complaint and I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss D an additional £100 in compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
