DRN-2078995
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 2002 over the phone, around 8 years after taking out her store 
card. It covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Understandably, because of the time thats passed, theres isnt still a record of the call 
where the PPI was sold. But from what Ive seen of AXAs sales process from the time, staff 
were instructed to make it clear that the policy was optional. And I dont have any evidence 
which shows that this sale differed significantly from the normal process. Further, by the time 
of this sale, Mrs H had already had her store card for over 8 years. So she wouldve known 
she didnt have to take out PPI in order to get approved for the card. Overall, I think its most 
likely that AXA made Mrs H aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so 
after so many years.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs H enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like 
she wouldve been significantly affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. 
And while she had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
offered her longer and more comprehensive cover  especially for when her benefits 
reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay or ran out. So the policy could have been useful 
for Mrs H in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Mrs H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman