DRN-3916775
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car, which is mainly used by 
his family members.
In December 2021 his car was damaged when a third party crashed into it while it was 
parked, causing damage to the bumper and side. He contacted Admiral on 19 January 2022 
and notified it about the crash. Mr W said to Admiral that he was just informing it about the 
incident as he was claiming direct from the third party. He said the car was damaged, but 
driveable. 
Admiral saved the claim on its system as needing no further action and later closed the 
claim.
Mr W spoke to Admiral on 7 February and asked why Admiral hadnt taken any action on his 
claim. Admirals claims handler checked the details of the claim and said that because of the 
nature of the incident, hed need to claim under his policy with Admiral. Mr Ws claim was re-
opened and Admiral made arrangements with Mr W to repair the car at a location convenient 
for him.
About a week later, Mr Ws car failed its MOT test because of the damage thatd been 
caused in the crash and some pre-existing issues.
Admirals repairer looked at the car on 1 March. The car was booked in for repairs in April, 
and no courtesy car was available in the meantime. On 19 April Mr W asked for a courtesy 
car from the repairing garage. The courtesy car was supplied to him on 21 April and repairs 
were carried out over the next two weeks.
Mr W complained to Admiral about the length of time taken to repair the car, and the lack of 
updates and communication during his claim. He says he called Admiral repeatedly but it 
didnt respond to him or offer him a courtesy car.
He asks for compensation for his distress and inconvenience, the return of his excess, and 
the cost of an intensive driving course for a family member who was unable to use the car 
during the period it was off the road. He says he has continued to pay his premiums 
throughout the period, even though he said he couldnt use the car. 
Mr W paid his excess of £325 and Admiral told him that hed be able to use another 
company, who Ill refer to as L, to get his excess back. When Mr W tried to arrange the 
refund of his excess, L told him that it couldnt help because his excess was lower than its 
minimum criteria. Mr W complained to Admiral about this. He chased up Admiral repeatedly, 
but it didnt ring him back.
Admiral didnt respond within eight weeks, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Admiral then responded and awarded him £50 compensation for his trouble and upset, and 
an additional £25 for the delay handling his complaint. It apologised for its poor 
communication during the claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she didnt think 
Admiral had acted unfairly, but it hadnt explained the claims process well enough or kept Mr 
W up to date. She didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint as she thought the compensation Admiral 
offered was fair.
Mr W didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further.
This is set out below:
Mr Ws complaint about Admiral covers several areas, so its important that I deal with the 
various parts separately. By doing this, I think it will answer several of Mr Ws questions 
which would have been better answered by Admiral at an earlier stage in his claim. 
Claim notification
During Mr Ws initial call to Admiral he says that hes unsure about the process he needs to 
follow. Admirals claims handler tells Mr W about his options which were to claim under his 
Admiral policy, or from the third partys insurer. He explains that if Mr W claimed from it, his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) would only be reinstated when Admiral recovered the cost of the 
claim from the third party.
Mr W doesnt want to impact his NCD, and he agrees hell contact the third partys insurance 
company and claim from it.
About three weeks later, Mr W re-contacted Admiral and said hed been told by the third 
party that he needed to claim from his own policy. I can hear from the call that hes quite 
frustrated by the length of time hes been waiting for the repairs to start (which was six 
weeks from the incident). He mentions that hes been paying for the car to sit on the road 
since the incident and that it hadnt been driven for most of that time.
Admirals claims handler looked into his details and confirmed that, because of the nature of 
the incident, Mr W would need to make his claim through Admiral. 
Im unsure why Admirals first claims handler didnt tell Mr W this during the first call, but I 
think its fair to say that the claim would have been underway much earlier if Mr W had been 
told this information initially. 
In this second call, Mr W is also told his NCD wont be affected because it is protected. 
Again, Im unsure why he wasnt told this during the first call because the information should 
have been readily available to the claims handler.
It seems to me that Admiral caused a substantial delay in the early part of the claim. Its 
claims handler should have realised that Mr W would need to claim under his own policy and 
told him so. In the end Mr W was told this by the third party, which seems very 
unsatisfactory. I can say that, perhaps, Mr W should have tried to progress his claim before this time had 
elapsed. I can even say that if Mr W had reported the incident in December, then Admiral 
might have dealt with his claim even quicker, but I feel its fair to say that Admirals poor 
handling of his first call meant an additional three weeks was added to the length of the 
claim. Mr W specifically told Admiral that he wasnt sure about what to do and I think he 
reasonably followed Admirals directions, which werent correct.
Claims delay 
In his second claims call, Admiral told Mr W that its approved repairers were quite busy. In 
the end, it took another three weeks for Mr Ws car to be inspected. Before it was inspected, 
Mr W had the car put through an MOT test, which it failed. I can see from the MOT history 
that itd failed due to damage caused in the accident and also because of some issues that 
were pre-existing.
The car was therefore out of use because it was waiting for Admirals approved repairer to 
commence repairs, making it roadworthy.
The car was booked in for repairs about seven weeks later. Im unsure why it took seven 
weeks for Admiral to start repairs as Admiral hasnt responded to this point, but Ive 
mentioned above that Admirals claims handler said that Admirals approved repairers were 
very busy. Im aware of delays in the global supply chain affecting how quickly parts can be 
supplied, but it seems to me that in Admirals case its repairers were simply too busy. And I 
cant say thats Mr Ws fault. I think Admiral should have done more to help him, or perhaps 
offered him to have his car fixed by a non-approved repairer.
Ive said above that I think Admiral caused a three-week delay initially by giving Mr W the 
wrong information. I also think its fair to say that Admiral were substantially at fault for the 
ten week total delay getting the car into the repairer (three weeks to have the car inspected, 
then a further seven weeks to start repairs).
Its important that I say here that motor claims often take some considerable time to be 
finished, but I also think its fair to say that Id expect an initial inspection to take place within 
about a week from claim notification. 
Mr Ws car isnt unusual or rare, so I also think its fair to expect it to be with the repairer for 
work to be done within about four more weeks.
So, Id expect a repair like this to take about five weeks to start, but Admiral took ten. 
Without further evidence from Admiral, I am minded to say that Admiral unfairly caused 
about half of the delay getting the car into its repairer. 
Excess
Admirals policy wording talks about its treatment of policy excesses:
Excess
The amount you must pay towards any claim for damage or loss of your car. Admiral 
will not be responsible to you for the excess under any circumstances. You are 
responsible for the excess even if the accident is not your fault or not the fault of any 
driver named on your policy.
Using its definition of excess, I can see that Admiral apply it to all claims, whether or not its 
own policyholder is at fault, or not (as in Mr Ws case). So its my understanding that Mr W would expect to pay his excess towards his claim, regardless of whether Admiral recover its 
costs from a third party.
It seems to me that Mr W wasnt aware of this, but the policy wording is clear that its his 
responsibility to pay that amount regardless of fault.
During his calls, there are different discussions about whether Mr Ws excess might be 
recoverable from the third party, either by claiming directly from them or using the services of 
L.
When Mr W tried to use the services of L, he quickly found that his excess of £325 was 
below the minimum criteria for L, so it wouldnt help him get his excess back. L does not fall 
under the remit of this service and Im unable to consider a complaint against it.
But Admiral referred Mr W to this service and told him L would help him to see if it can be 
recovered. I dont think this is good service from Admiral. It shouldnt have sent Mr W to L 
knowing that his excess was below the minimum criteria. It had the effect of raising his 
hopes of getting his excess back, but which wasnt possible under Ls rules.
I can see from the file that this caused Mr W a great deal of distress and Admiral failed to 
respond to any of his complaints about what had happened. 
This service can deal with complaints about regulated activities but unfortunately complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity, so it falls outside of our jurisdiction.
Mr W may need to seek legal advice should he wish to recover his excess from the third 
party.
Courtesy Car
Admirals policy includes a provision for a courtesy car. The cover under the policy says:
Our approved repairers, or another company instructed by Admiral will:
arrange collection and re-delivery of your vehicle
give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
In common with most insurers, I would take this to mean that the courtesy car is provided 
while the car is in the repairer being fixed. I wouldnt typically expect this to be provided while 
waiting for the car to taken to the garage for repairs, or for parts to arrive. 
Mr W was provided with a courtesy car by the garage whilst the repairs were being carried 
out.
But Ive said above that I think Admiral were directly responsible for three weeks of the delay 
with this claim, and bear about half of the responsibility for the further ten weeks. 
I can see from Mr Ws evidence that this car was a second car used by his family members 
and he says its not in daily use when hes talking about it with Admiral. 
When considering the impact of being without a car, its this services approach to award £10 
per day, but I dont think I can fairly say Mr W was without a car during this period. Id 
propose to reduce this payment by half due to the nature of use of this car. Ive said that I 
think Admiral were responsible for about eight weeks of delay, so 56 days in total. Taking half of this would mean I propose a payment of £280 to represent the inconvenience caused 
by Admiral delaying his claim. 
During the time that his car was unusable, Mr W has said he needed to pay for an intensive 
driving course for a family member who was unable to use his own car to learn how to drive. 
Thats not something I can fairly say is the responsibility of Admiral, because Mr W chose 
book and pay for the course rather than waiting for his car to become available again. So Im 
not going to ask Admiral to pay for it.
Service
It seems to me that Admirals initial claims handling was poor. If Mr W had been given the 
correct information during that call, I think its fair to say his claim would have proceeded 
much faster.
Mr W has told this service of his frustration with various elements of the claim, including the 
problem of being referred to another company who werent able to help him.
Hes mentioned making multiple calls per day to try and move his claim forward or get an 
update, and Admirals almost complete lack of response to him.
I can see Admiral helped by arranging repairs to take place at Mr Ws convenience, but the 
mistakes it made during the claims process initially caused a substantial delay. Admiral 
hasnt supplied a reason why it took so long for the repairs to begin, and its my thinking that 
the initial delay awaiting inspection was so long that I think Admiral were simply too busy to 
handle Mr Ws repairs. 
Admirals response has been poor throughout Mr Ws claim which I can see has caused him 
considerable distress and frustration. I think the £50 compensation it awarded him isnt 
sufficient, and I think a total figure of £150 is more appropriate. This is in addition to the £25 
it awarded him for the delay handling his complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral responded and said it had nothing to add to my decision. 
Mr W responded and said he didnt think £5 per day was sufficient to compensate him for the 
cost of keeping the car on the road. 
He also asked that I remind Admiral about the possibility of the third-party insurer refunding 
his excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comments about the ongoing costs of keeping the car on 
the road. It seems to me that Mr W would have had to pay these costs whether or not the car 
was being used, so I dont think it would be fair to ask Admiral to pay more for them. I think 
its fair to say that while it wasnt in use, there would have been savings on fuel and 
consumables to offset other costs. Mr W had also said that the car wasnt in daily use, so 
without further evidence I think the 50% reduction Ive applied is fair and reasonable. 
Ive dealt with Admirals treatment of Mr Ws excess in my provisional decision above, which I think is clear. I would ask that Admiral assist by reasonably providing Mr W the information 
he needs to approach the third-party insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I intend to 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr W:
£280 for his inconvenience in not having a car for his family to use.
£150 for his frustration with Admirals failure to respond to his concerns. Im aware 
that £50 has already been paid, so this can be deducted.
£25 for the delays handing his complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman