DRN-3787100
The complaint
Mr P has complained about his vehicle insurer, Zurich Insurance PLC, because it declined 
his claim for the theft of his motorhome. 
Zurich uses an agent to handle its claims, but it is the underwriter for the policy. So it is 
responsible for the acts and decisions of the agent in handling the claim. For ease of reading 
my decision will refer only to Zurich.
What happened
On 1 May 2022 Mr P was using his motorhome, with his partner, to stay near a concert 
venue. They locked and left the motorhome that evening to attend the concert. When they 
returned before midnight, the motorhome had gone. They reported the matter to the police, 
took a taxi to their home address and Mr P reported the loss to Zurich a few days later.
In reporting the claim to Zurich Mr P said he had bought the motorhome with two keys and 
the spare key had been with his partners keys which had been left in a locked storage 
compartment in the van when they went to the concert. Within a week Zurich declined the 
claim on the basis of a policy exclusion to cover where a vehicle is left unoccupied with keys 
inside. Mr P felt that was unfair and argued so. 
A few days later Mr P told Zurich he had made a mistake  he had just found the spare key, 
it hadnt been on his partners keys at all. He said both sets are still in my possession. 
Zurich said it wanted to assess the keys to see if they were both genuine manufacturer keys. 
Mr P wasnt sure about surrendering the keys. Although he did agree to do so and told 
Zurich that the key he had recently found was not a manufacturer key  it was one hed had 
cut after he purchased the motorhome (before it was stolen). The key report confirmed that 
the spare key was an aftermarket key  but also that it was only a key blade, only capable of 
operating the vehicles locks  it couldnt be used to start or drive the motorhome.  Zurich 
said it was maintaining its decline as it wasnt satisfied it had been given a true and accurate 
account of the circumstances surrounding the keys.
Mr P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But he and Zurich corresponded 
some more. Zurich asked for, amongst other things, a statement from him and to interview 
his partner. Mr P compiled a statement, but this wasnt initially sent to Zurich. He said his 
partner would not consent to an interview as she was not obliged to because she has no 
contract with Zurich. He also said Zurich was wrong to have referred to her as having been a 
witness to the theft as they were both at the concert when the motorhome was taken. Zurich 
said the policy term had been communicated to Mr P and that without the key, a casual thief 
wouldnt have been able to take the motorhome, and the efforts of even a more determined 
thief may have come to nought if the key had not been present. 
Mr P later provided his statement to Zurich and it considered it. Zurich noted Mr P had now 
explained that one of the two original vehicle keys which he was given at the point of the 
purchase had been lost and replaced by him with the aftermarket key. Zurich felt this was 
something Mr P should have said to it before. It said the claim remained declined as it was 
satisfied a key had been left in the vehicle in breach of the insurance contract.
Our Investigator felt Zurich had acted fairly and reasonably in line with the clear policy terms. 
He didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong, so he did not uphold the complaint.
Mr P said he disagreed, not least as he didnt think the term had been clearly advised to him. 
He asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is an important issue for Mr P as it relates to a significant loss. So 
I recognise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for him. That is regrettable. 
However, Im of the view that based on the evidence available to it, Zurich has reached a fair 
and reasonable decision on the claim. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to view the accounts first received after a loss as likely the most 
reliable detail about what happened. Here I note that Mr P told Zurich he had been given two 
keys for the motorhome at the point of purchase, one of which was left in the motorhome 
when it was parked and left unoccupied on 1 May 2022. 
The policy says that instances of theft will not be covered when a vehicle is left unoccupied 
where a key to that vehicle is left inside. Theres no allowance within that for cover to apply if 
a key is left inside but within a locked compartment. Zurich has explained to Mr P that this 
type of term is common to most motor insurance policies. I understand it has chosen to 
include it in this policy because a key, in this type of situation, makes it much more likely that 
thieves will drive a vehicle away, whether or not stealing it was their initial intent. In essence 
that the theft is made much easier when the key is present as Mr P has said it was here, and 
I note it has explained this to Mr P. I think thats a reasonable opinion and I can understand 
that this is a risk Zurich wouldnt want to leave itself open to. Im also satisfied that this key 
term was detailed in the important policy information document provided to Mr P when the 
cover was purchased. Im satisfied thats a reasonable and sufficient way for this term to be 
communicated and that it was clear.
So Zurich had reasonably limited its liability for theft claims for unoccupied vehicle where a 
vehicle key was left inside, also explaining why this likely affected the theft. And Mr P, very 
clearly and definitely, on more than one occasion, told Zurich that a key had been left in the 
unoccupied vehicle. I appreciate that Mr P, after Zurich initially declined the claim, because 
the key had been left in the motorhome, said hed made a mistake. Zurich hasnt accepted 
that and has maintained that it believes that the accounts Mr P gave to it, when notifying the 
claim, and also during his initial attempts to challenge its decline on the basis of the policy 
term, were most likely correct. Which means that, in its view, its most likely that a key was in 
the motorhome when it was left unoccupied and then stolen, a loss it has chosen to not be 
liable for. As I said Im satisfied that Zurichs decline of the claim is fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman