DRN-2216928
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Metro Bank PLC didnt inform them of the amount of interest 
they would be charged on their mortgage whilst on a payment holiday.
What happened
On 31 March 2020, Mrs P called Metro to ask for a three month payment holiday on their 
mortgage. This was because of the uncertainty they had about their ability to pay the 
mortgage during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
During the call the advisor explained that Mr and Mrs Ps credit file wouldnt be impacted by 
taking a payment holiday but that their monthly payments would increase by approximately 
£25. On this basis they agreed to proceed with the payment holiday. 
On 22 April 2020, Metro called Mrs P to discuss the payment holiday further. They explained 
that Mr and Mrs P could either make up the payment holiday in full after it had finished or 
spread the payments over the remaining term of the mortgage. The advisor said if 
Mr and Mrs P spread the payments over the term, their monthly payment would increase by 
£25.14 and would include the interest applied over the three months. Mrs P said they still 
wanted to proceed with the payment holiday and a confirmation letter was sent on 
26 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs P later raised a complaint about the payment holiday. They explained they were 
unhappy because they werent initially told they would incur interest of approximately £900 
over the three month payment holiday period. And if they had been, they wouldnt have 
taken the payment holiday. 
Metro considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. It apologised if the explanation in the 
initial conversation hadnt been clear but said Mr and Mrs P had been informed interest 
would be applied over the three month period in the call on 22 April 2020. Unhappy with the 
response Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint with our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and was satisfied Metro had made Mr and Mrs P 
aware that interest would be charged over the payment holiday - and what the implications 
of this would be. They also felt that even if Mr and Mrs P had been given exact figures of the 
interest charged, they still would have proceeded with the payment holiday due to the 
uncertainty they had about paying the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said they were 
willing to pay for the three missed months at the end of the payment holiday and felt 
approximately £900 interest for three months was wrong. They also questioned why interest 
was being charged daily on their mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 20 March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published specific guidance for 
lenders with regards to mortgages. The guidance was aimed at helping mortgage customers 
whose financial circumstances had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The guidance 
said lenders should offer a payment holiday to borrowers where appropriate and provide 
adequate information to borrowers to ensure they understand the implications of the 
payment holiday. 
The FCA also released guidance for customers outlining important information to take into 
consideration when requesting a payment holiday. This said that interest would continue to 
be charged unless the lender said otherwise and if a customer took a payment holiday they 
would likely end up paying more in the long term. 
Ive listened to the calls Mrs P had with Metro on 31 March 2020 and 22 April 2020. I can 
agree that during the first call the advisors explanation of the payment holiday and the 
implications for Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage could have been clearer. However, having listened 
to the second call, Im satisfied Metro explained how the payment holiday would work, the 
implications this would have for their mortgage, and that interest would continue to be 
charged. 
I also think the confirmation letter sent to Mr and Mrs P clearly explains the payment holiday 
and the implications of it. This letter says that interest will continue to be charged on the 
mortgage during the payment holiday and that because the mortgage balance is increasing, 
the total cost of the mortgage would increase along with the monthly payments.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs P were unhappy to find out they had been charged interest 
over the payment holiday. But I dont think if they had known the exact figure, they wouldnt 
have gone ahead with it. I say this because its clear from the phone calls that Mr and Mrs P 
had concerns over their ability to pay the mortgage during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
I think it should also be noted that the interest charged, is interest Mr and Mrs P would have 
always incurred if they had continued with their monthly payments and hadnt taken the 
payment holiday. The only difference is that because the interest hasnt been paid, its been 
added to the outstanding balance where it will accrue a small amount of additional interest. 
They havent been charged an extra £900  they would usually pay around £300 in interest 
each month; the £900 is simply the interest they didnt pay during the three-month payment 
holiday. The payment holiday didnt mean Metro wouldnt charge any interest, and I dont 
think Mr and Mrs P were misled about this. Other mortgage lenders have taken a similar 
approach in deciding not to waive interest in these circumstances.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P have said they were willing to pay for the three missed 
payments at the end of the payment holiday. If they did this, it would effectively put the 
account back in the position it would have been in if no payment holiday had been taken. But 
there would still be an amount of additional interest incurred for having not paid the interest 
due over the three months  which Metro are entitled to charge. This option may still be 
available to Mr and Mrs P, and if they wish to do this, I would recommend they speak directly 
with Metro. However, my understanding is that they agreed with Metro on 13 July 2020 that 
they would repay the payment holiday by the increased monthly payments of £1,179.07.
In Mr and Mrs Ps response to our investigators view, they also queried why their interest 
was being charged daily. For completeness, Ive looked at the terms and conditions for their mortgage and Im satisfied Metro are entitled to calculate interest daily. It specifies 
under the section 9 How we calculate your interest that interest will accrue and be calculated 
daily on the amount owed. This is usual practice for a mortgage.
In summary, I think that Metro did enough to explain the implications of the payment holiday 
and have applied interest to the mortgage account fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman