DRN-3491399
The complaint
D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to properly administer several direct debits.
What happened
D became aware that a direct debit had been requested from a merchant Ill refer to as K. 
After looking into the issue, several other unrecognised direct debits were identified. Lloyds 
refunded the direct debit requested by K to Ds account.
D were unhappy that Lloyds allowed the direct debits to be set up without checking the 
mandate on their account. Ds account required two signatures to authorise transactions and 
the direct debit only appeared to have one signature when it was created.
D complained to Lloyds about the way they handled the direct debits and thought their 
systems were lacking. D wanted compensation and for Lloyds to provide information about 
who created the direct debits. D also wanted Lloyds to change their systems.
Lloyds investigated Ds complaint and didnt accept that theyd done anything wrong. Lloyds 
couldnt identify whod set up the direct debits as they were created through each of the  
merchants. D remained unhappy with how Lloyds had handled their issue and brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about 
the complaint. D explained what had happened and provided information related to 
conversations theyd had with other organisations. This related to the obligations of the 
account holders bank (Lloyds) when setting up a direct debit.
Lloyds provided information about the refund theyd made to D and correspondence with D. 
Our investigator thought that D had acted reasonably by refunding the direct debit and didnt 
uphold Ds complaint.
D disagreed and wanted a further review of their complaint which has now been passed to 
me for a decision. 
D commented that:
They believed Lloyds had breached their terms and conditions when they failed to 
check the mandate before processing the direct debit.
Lloyds didnt want to help identify who had set up the direct debits.
D believe Lloyds should have reported the other merchants for breaches in the direct 
debit process.
Lloyds werent interested in a fraud investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my focus is on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do 
this and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im 
satisfied that I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what 
I think is the right outcome.
Ds complaint concerns the administration of direct debits which includes the electronic 
system called AUDDIS. Participation in this system is a requirement for setting up direct 
debits and enables the information obtained by the requesting merchant to be sent 
electronically to the account holders bank.
Direct debits are a pull payment request, that is one made by the merchant who notifies the 
account holder about the payment and then makes a request through the banks payment 
systems. Direct debits are supported by a guarantee and require the participants to follow 
various rules. 
In the case of a direct debit that was set up without the appropriate authority (as is the case 
here), the system enables a refund to be made to the account holder D and for Lloyds to 
request the refund from the merchant K. 
There are obligations for each party when setting up new direct debits, including the 
requirement for Lloyds to make sure the direct debit has been  properly executed. The 
broader rules governing direct debits puts the onus on the merchant K to correctly set up 
them up. The result of an incorrectly set up direct debit is that its likely to be an unauthorised 
transaction. Thats the case here because Ds banking mandate requires two signatures to 
set up such payments.
D's complaint centres around Lloyds lack of checking when the direct debit was first set up, 
and I think they have a point here. I dont think Lloyds can successfully argue they properly 
executed the instruction because it would likely have been rejected if theyd checked. But, 
Lloyds were relying on K to set up the direct debit and because they didnt, K were held 
responsible for the charges and a refund was made to D. 
D havent lost out here, although I appreciate they didnt think Lloyds had done a thorough 
job when the direct debits were presented to them. Lloyds wouldnt have many details about 
the direct debit which is why they were unable to provide those details to D. I recognise that 
D might have difficulties accessing this information from the merchants  but I cant hold 
Lloyds liable for that.
When Lloyds refunded D, they considered this the end of the matter. I realise D wanted them 
to carry out a fraud investigation, but its not clear to me what that would have achieved. If D 
think the issue was related to a criminal undertaking, then the police would be the 
appropriate organisation to approach. 
There were other matters D wanted Lloyds to deal with including the reporting of merchants 
for breaches of the direct debit process and changes to their systems. These are all matters 
that are outside the scope of my decision, so I wont be commenting on them. I dont mean 
any disrespect to D, but my decision is solely concerned with the impact of what happened 
to them and not the wider issues theyve raised.I appreciate this has been a frustrating period for D, and whilst I recognise that Lloyds hasnt 
done what it necessarily should have  that hasnt led to D being disadvantaged because the 
losses were refunded to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman