DRN-3640751
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Unum Ltd turned down her income protection claim. 
What happened
Mrs D is covered by her employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit in the event she cant work due to illness or injury. The scheme has a deferred 
period of 26 weeks. 
In December 2020, Mrs D stopped work as she needed surgery. She made a claim to Unum, 
however Unum thought Mrs D didnt meet the scheme requirements for a claim to be paid. 
Mrs D brought a complaint to this service about Unums claims decision. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mrs D hadnt 
shown that she met the scheme definition of incapacity. 
Mrs D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme says:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
The deferred period was 14 December 2020 until 14 June 2021. I note that Mrs D returned 
to work on a phased basis on 3 June 2021, and I understand she was able to return to full-
time hours by October 2021. Mrs D is claiming proportionate benefit under the scheme from 
the end of the deferred period until she returned to full-time hours.
For a claim to be paid, the onus is on Mrs D to show that she met the above definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. Ive therefore considered the medical evidence 
between 14 December 2020 and 14 June 2021. 
Mrs D had surgery on 15 December 2020, which was successful. The evidence from Mrs Ds 
treating specialist in March 2021 was that she was well and motivated following the surgery. 
Mrs D had regular physiotherapy until April 2021. 
Mrs Ds speech therapist confirmed in April 2021 that her speech was fully intelligible and 
was within normal limits. Though she was experiencing some symptoms which were 
affecting her ability to chew, and was given some exercises for this. 
Mrs Ds consultant said that a patient with Mrs Ds diagnosis and treatment would be 
expected to be off work full-time for the first six months. However, he acknowledged that this 
was very variable from patient to patient, depending on their profession. I note that Mrs D 
has a sedentary occupation, and her consultant didnt say why she couldnt return to work in 
that occupation before June 2021. 
Mrs Ds GP also said that a patient with Mrs Ds diagnosis and treatment would be expected 
to be off work full-time for the first six months. She said that Mrs D had a lot of emotional 
distress during her recovery, and had counselling for this. The GP also said that it took 
Mrs D a long time to recover from the fatigue. However, I note that Mrs D intended to return 
to work on a phased basis in April 2021 which her GP supported at the time.
Mrs D then advised Unum that she experienced a setback and so her expected return to 
work was delayed. As I understand it, the setback was that Mrs D experienced soreness in 
her mouth which she said impacted her psychologically. Following this, Mrs D engaged with 
counselling. 
Mrs Ds GP has provided some information about this. She said the psychological burden of 
Mrs Ds diagnosis and treatment became evident in April 2021, and this resulted in a delay in 
her returning to work until 3 June 2021. The GP said Mrs D started counselling on 21 April 
2021, and this helped aid her return to work. 
Mrs D has provided a letter from her counsellor which explains that Mrs D was experiencing 
heightened anxiety affected by her diagnosis and treatment (and other factors). 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs D experienced anxiety following her surgery, the available medical 
evidence doesnt suggest that this was significant enough to prevent her from carrying out 
her occupation. Crucially, Mrs Ds counsellor didnt comment on her ability to work. 
I do understand Mrs D has been through a great deal, with both her diagnosis and her 
surgery. Nonetheless, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that Mrs D had made a 
good recovery following her surgery, and that the medical evidence doesnt support that her 
remaining symptoms were so debilitating as to prevent her from carrying out a phased return 
to work from April 2021, and up to full-time hours before the end of the deferred period. I 
therefore find it was reasonable for Unum to turn down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman