DRN-4454282
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt provided bank statements going back to 2000 
and 2001 that she requested in branch. 
What happened
Ms Ns told us she visited a branch of Santander and asked it to supply bank statements 
going back to 2000 and 2001. Ms Ns explained she needs the statements as part of an 
ongoing dispute she has in relation to a car loan that has been going on for several years. 
Ms N says the branch staff agreed to arrange for statements for be sent and told her theyd 
arrive in around a week. 
The statements werent sent to Ms N but shes told us Santander issued a single page with 
one amount written on it. No other information was supplied. 
Ms N complained and Santander issued a final response on 28 June 2023. Santander said it 
no longer holds data for dates prior to 2010. Santander added that Ms N had previously 
complained about the same issue in 2018 and it had advised no statements were available 
for the period in question when responding. Santander accepted branch staff mayve 
incorrectly told her statements would be sent but advised it had previously made her aware it 
was unable to provide the statements she wanted. 
Ms N referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
werent persuaded Santander had acted unfairly and said the rules it operates under dont 
require it to retain information, like bank statements, indefinitely. The investigator didnt 
uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Ms N asked to appeal and said she struggled with mental health and memory which was 
made more complicated by the number of parties involved in her dispute. Ms N provided 
further background about her dispute and explained she feels Santander is covering for 
another part of the bank which had provided a car loan. As Ms N didnt accept the 
investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Id like to explain that Im aware Ms N has a dispute that relates to a car loan. Ms N has 
explained the issue has been going on for many years and that there are several parties 
involved. In this decision, I can only look at Ms Ns complaint about her request for bank 
statements in branch earlier this year. Im not going to comment on any of the other issues 
Ms Ns told us about in this decision. 
As our investigator says, banks dont have to retain customer information (like account 
statements) indefinitely. Here, when Santander responded to Ms Ns complaint it confirmed it 
retained bank statements going back to 2010. Thats in line with the rules that set out how 
long information should be retained. So whilst I understand Ms N feels theres more to 
Santanders decision to delete old bank statements, Im satisfied its acted in line with the 
rules and no longer has the bank statements shes asked to see. 
I can see Ms N previously complained in 2018 and Santander issued a final response 
explaining it no longer had the bank statements she asked for. Whilst I understand Ms N was 
disappointed when she visited the branch and a member of staff told her theyd order the 
statements, Im satisfied Santander had already explained they werent available in 2018. I 
can see no reason why statements that had already been deleted in 2018 would become 
available when Ms N requested them again earlier this year. 
Id like to assure Ms N that Ive read and considered everything shes told us about her 
health and how the situation has impacted her. But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied Santander didnt have the statements Ms N requested going back to 2000 and 2001 
when she visited its branch. I can understand why Ms N feels Santanders actions are 
unreasonable, but I havent seen anything that shows its made a mistake or treated her 
unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint Ms N but as Im satisfied Santander has acted fairly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman