DRN-2125935
The complaint
Miss K says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss K between 
October 2017 and June 2018. These loans were to be repaid in six monthly instalments. 
Miss K borrowed and repaid £680, then she borrowed £680 again and then £270 whilst loan 
two was still running. She wasnt able to repay the last two loans. Lending Stream said it 
thought the last loan may have been unsuitable for Miss K and it offered to provide redress 
for this loan. But Miss K remained unhappy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. Miss K disagreed. She said she was in a 
debt management plan at the time and this would have shown on her credit file. And so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
As Ive said above, Lending Stream has already agreed that it shouldnt have provided loan 
three. And its offered the redress Ive have required if Id upheld this loan. So I wont 
consider loan three any further. 
Lending Stream asked Miss K for information about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. Miss K said her monthly income was £1,700. She said her monthly 
outgoings were between £935 and £623. So she looked to have sufficient disposable income 
to cover her monthly repayments sustainably. 
Ive seen the results of the credit checks that Lending Stream carried out. It didnt have 
access to Miss Ks full credit file and so wouldnt have seen that she was in a debt 
management plan at the time. It did, however, see that shed had some defaults, but I dont 
these were significant enough to cause it to ask further questions. I think these checks were 
sufficient and proportionate for Miss Ks first two loans. 
For her first two loans, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ks 
circumstances at the time and her history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Miss K provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Miss K was saying. 
From the information Miss K provided and Lending Streams checks, these two loans looked 
affordable for Miss K. So I cant say it was wrong for Lending Stream to have provided them. 
Lending Stream has made an offer for loan three, and I expect it to honour this. Miss K can 
contact Lending Stream if she wishes to take up its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman