DRN-3576042
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Ms Y used to hold with Black Horse Bank Ltd. She 
still has the loan, but in 2015 it was passed to a new lender, which Ill refer to here as S. 
Ms Y is unhappy that the loan has continued in existence for so long, and that even now it 
will still take several years to repay the balance.  
What happened
Ms Y took the loan out in early 2006; it was originally a joint loan with her former husband 
but she subsequently took on sole responsibility for the debt when they separated. The loan 
was originally taken out for eight years, so should have been repaid in 2013 if all payments 
had been made in full and on time. However, that didnt happen and there was still an 
outstanding balance when the scheduled term came to an end. In 2014, Black Horse 
obtained a court order to the effect that Ms Y still owed it around £12,250. 
In November 2015, Black Horse transferred the loan to a new lender, which Ill refer to here 
as S. Ms Y has continued making payments, more recently under a debt arrangement, but 
in December 2020, she complained that the loan still existed, and that even now, she still 
owed around £3,700.
When the complaint came to us, our investigator confined his consideration of the case to 
the period between December 2014 (six years back from when the complaint started) and 
November 2015 (when the loan was transferred to S). He didnt think Black Horse had done 
anything wrong in its operation of the loan between those dates. Ms Y asked for the case to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. She wanted us to look at the administration of the loan from 
the outset.
In a recent jurisdiction decision, I confirmed why our remit to consider the complaint had to 
be restricted to the eleven months between December 2014 and November 2015. I then 
gave both parties a further two weeks to make any final comments on the merits of the case. 
That time has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
I appreciate Ms Y is unhappy that the loan has gone on for far longer than was ever 
envisaged when she first took it out. But theres nothing in the account records between 
December 2014 and November 2015 that would give me any reason to think Black Horse 
over-charged Ms Y, mis-applied her payments or more generally treated her unfairly. 
But that doesnt mean Ms Y has to take Black Horses word (or mine) that everything was 
correct during that period. If Mr Ms Y has a real and substantive belief that Black Horses 
administration of her loan has unduly extended its life, based on something other than a 
general feeling that something is wrong, it is open to her to arrange for the account to be 
audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Black Horse would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Ms Y would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to her 
detriment, we would then expect Black Horse to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit 
as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things 
stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that Black Horse administered 
Ms Ys loan to her detriment between December 2014 and November 2015.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman