DRN-4309405
The complaint
Miss B complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running account 
credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2010, Miss B applied for a credit account with Next. The initial lending and 
credit increases before January 2017 have been the subject of a jurisdiction decision and it 
has been found that they are lending decisions that cannot be considered by us. So, this 
decision looks at the merits of Miss Bs complaint about lending decisions after January 
2017. 
The credit limit increases we are considering are in this decision are as follows, to £3,000 in 
August 2019, to £3000 in April 2021 (following some credit reductions), to £3,750 in August 
2021 and to £5,000 in January 2022. 
In January 2023, Miss B complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Bs complaint is that Next failed to make adequate checks before providing her with 
credit or increased credit. 
Next has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer. The checks produced credit scores which took into 
account Miss Bs overall credit commitment and Miss Bs management of that credit. Next 
told us that Miss Bs account was assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check 
information and the credit limit was set using that information and their observation of Miss 
Bs management of the account. 
Its possible that these checks could have been more searching. But even had they been I 
do not think that Next would have seen anything that made them think the lending was 
unreasonable. Ill explain why I say that. 
I have noted the credit report that Miss B has provided. It shows no adverse information on 
it that would have led Next to think that Miss B was not managing her existing credit at the 
times of the credit limit increases to the account. And Miss Bs management of her account 
would not have shown anything to deter further lending as the account was well run by Miss 
B. 
And Ive noted the bank statements that Miss B has provided. Whilst they do not cover all of 
the times that further credit was provided, they do cover a good stretch of those times. 
Mostly Miss Bs income exceeded expenditure each month and the balances were mostly 
positive at the start and end of most months. There were some months when neither of 
those things were true, but they were not near the time of any credit increase decisions and 
they were in the minority of the statements I have seen. And any negative balance at the 
end of a month was comparatively modest compared to the income the statements show 
coming into the account in those small number of months. So, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Next to think the credit limits they provided were unaffordable. 
And there were times when Next took action to limit the credit Miss B had available to her. 
Having looked at all the submissions made to me in this case, I am not persuaded that Miss 
B lost out as a result of unaffordable lending at a time when that lending was being reduced. 
In general, I have noted that at times the credit limits were raised and at times reduced. And 
all these decisions were made by Next based on Miss Bs management of her account and 
the credit file information that Next sourced monthly. And based on the submissions that 
have been made to us in this case, Im not persuaded that fuller enquiries into Miss Bs 
circumstances would have led Next to conclude it should have taken courses of action that 
were significantly different to those they took.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman