DRN-4250983
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to close his bank accounts when he requested 
it to. 
What happened
Mr W says he emailed Lloyds and asked it to close a bank account in 2017. When this didnt 
happen Mr W complained to Lloyds, and it upheld the complaint and said it would close the 
account and paid Mr W £80 for the inconvenience this had caused him. 
Mr W brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. During the investigation Mr W explained that in early 2023 
hed asked for other bank accounts with Lloyds to be closed, but these had also remained 
open. Our Investigator sent Lloyds the details of the accounts Mr W wanted closing and 
Lloyds said it would close the accounts. Lloyds offered to pay Mr W a further £75 for the 
additional inconvenience caused to Mr W and asked the Investigator to pass on its apology. 
Our Investigator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer to resolve the complaint. 
Mr W asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons given by 
our Investigator Ive decided that the payment of £80 Lloyds has already made, together with 
an apology and the offer to pay Mr W an additional £75 is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
Lloyds accepts it didnt close one of Mr Ws accounts when he requested it be closed in 
2017. Lloyds also accepts that when Mr W asked it to close other accounts in early 2023 it 
didnt close the accounts. So, I dont need to decide whether Lloyds did anything wrong as it 
has accepted that it did. Instead, I have to consider whether the remedy Lloyds has 
proposed is a fair and reasonable one.
Mr W feels that Lloyds should pay him £200 for each of the accounts it failed to close. 
However, I consider that its fair and reasonable that any remedy should reflect the overall 
impact on Mr W and not individual events. This is in line with guidance we publish on our 
website about on how we may award compensation for distress and inconvenience 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience  
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr W suffered any financial loss as a result of Lloyds failing 
to close his accounts when requested. However, Im satisfied that Mr W has had to contact 
Lloyds more times than he needed to get the accounts closed. Ive seen several emails 
between Mr W and Lloyds in this regard and Im persuaded that this caused Mr W more than 
the levels of frustration and annoyance he might reasonably expect in his own day-to-day 
life. In my opinion, the impact on Mr W has been more than just minimal. Lloyds has 
apologised for its mistakes and has paid Mr W £80. I understand that Mr W doesnt accept 
Lloyds apology, but Lloyds has also made an offer to pay Mr W a further £75 for the distress 
and inconvenience these mistakes caused him. Taking into account all of the circumstances 
of this complaint I think this is a fair and reasonable offer.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay Mr W a further £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman