DRN-2228356
The complaint
Miss W complains on behalf Mr Ws (her fathers) estate, about the service provided by 
Cofunds Limited, formerly known as Aegon, referred to as Cofunds.  
Miss W is unhappy about the difference in the value quoted and the amount subsequently 
received.  
What happened
On 1 August 2019, Miss W contacted Cofunds to notify it of her fathers death and to request 
that it close his General Investment Account (GIA) and Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA) and 
pay the proceeds to her mother.
 
A few days later Miss W received a letter from Cofunds (dated 2 August 2019) requesting 
the original death certificate, in order to proceed with her instructions. She was also told that 
at the date of her fathers death, the GIA was valued at 16p and the ISA was valued at 
£7,097.68. The death certificate was in due course provided and returned by 13 August 
2019. 
On 2 March 2020, Miss W received an email from a Cofunds platform administrator, asking 
her to complete an indemnity form with the selected payment option. On 18 April 2020, Miss 
W received a letter, which said that the funds  in the sum of 15p for the GIA and £5,500 for 
the ISA  had been paid into her mothers account. 
Miss M contacted Cofunds thinking the payment was an error because there was a 
difference in the amount quoted in August and the amount received subsequently. 
On 20 April 2020 she was contacted by a platform administrator who explained that the 
funds had remained invested until all the documents had been received. The earlier figure 
quoted wasnt guaranteed and the price of units and values could fluctuate daily.  
 
Miss W says this was the first time she was advised of this. She thought the account would 
be frozen once shed notified Cofunds of her fathers death and didnt understand how the 
account couldve remined active once the accountholder had died. That said, her mother 
couldve taken ownership of the investments and kept them until a future date. 
In due course Miss W complained to the business. The business partially upheld the 
complaint, it agreed that the process wasnt how Miss W would expect it to be and offered 
£300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also explained that it had 
undergone a recent migration of investments and that was the reason why its initial letter 
didnt make clear the quoted amount wasnt guaranteed. 
Miss W believes the business should honour the original quote given in August 2019 along 
with paying a higher payment for distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
In August 2019, Cofunds shouldve made clear to Miss W that the GIA and ISA 
values werent guaranteed. 
On 18 April 2020, when the funds were transferred into Miss Ws mothers name, 
Cofunds shouldve explained why the amounts were different to the August 2019 
quote and Miss W was understandably left confused and wondering what was going 
on when it didnt.
Cofunds followed its terms and conditions by keeping the funds invested until it had 
received all the documents. The relevant part of the terms and conditions state: On 
notification of your death, we will continue to hold all investments held in your Aegon 
ISA together with any cash held in the cash facility of your Aegon ISA, until we 
receive the formal documentation appointing the legal personal representatives of 
your estate that is acceptable to us.
This meant that the value of the GIA and ISA could go up and down but doesnt 
mean Cofunds is responsible for any losses. 
Although Miss W might not have appreciated this at the time, it was possible for her 
to transfer the ISA to her mother, enabling her mother to inherit the ISA allowance 
rather than to close the account. 
At the top of the indemnity form it made clear the following message: as per the 
terms and conditions, the options available are as follows: use Additional Permitted 
Subscriptions (APS) to move the assets to an ISA in the name of a spouse/civil 
partner. So Cofunds made Miss W aware of this.
In the circumstances the £300 compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. 
Miss W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary she made the following key points:
At no point did Cofunds make clear that thered be a change in the value of the funds 
held in her fathers account. 
Cofunds provided a figure but didnt state that it would in any way change before 
being paid out. 
She shouldve been made aware of this at the very outset and given clear guidance 
about her options.
Its unacceptable that she was sent a letter explaining the funds had been transferred 
but no explanation why the funds were £1,500 less than what was quoted. 
Why did Cofunds write to her confirming the value of the funds  as at the date of her 
fathers death  if the amount wasnt what it was going to pay?   
Shes never been supplied with a copy of the terms and conditions so how can she 
be expected to understand and follow its process  particularly when the business 
has changed its name so many times. 
She doesnt think the redress offered by Cofunds is fair or reasonable. 
Cofunds might have undergone a large migration of its administration of investments, 
but that doesnt justify its valuation letters not explaining that valuations cant be 
guaranteed. 
She feels as though her fathers money has been stolen.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business shouldve made clear, at 
the outset, that the value of the funds wasnt guaranteed. However, despite what Miss W 
says, I dont think this means the business is now liable to pay the difference between the 
initial quote and the amount transferred to her mothers account. 
In the circumstances, I also think the £300 compensation offered by the business is fair and 
reasonable. 
But before I explain why, I think its important for me to recognise Miss Ws frustration and 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the loss of her father in February 
2019. 
Miss W has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss W and Cofunds, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont think theres any dispute that Cofunds shouldve made clear in its letter dated 2 
August 2019 that the values quoted werent guaranteed, and that because the ISA funds 
were still invested in the stockmarket, the value of the funds could fluctuate. However, this 
doesnt mean that Mr Ws estate should now be paid the difference, because the August 
2019 figure wasnt something that it was entitled to.
I note the relevant section of the terms and conditions  under the heading Death of an 
Aegon ISA investor  it makes clear that on notification of death Cofunds will continue to 
hold all the investments until it has received all the relevant documentation. So, theres no 
way that Cofunds couldve guaranteed the value of the funds, which were subject to the 
stockmarket, even if it wanted to. 
I appreciate Miss W may not have had sight of the terms and conditions, but Ive no reason 
to believe that they wouldnt have been provided to Mr W, before he decided to go ahead 
with the investment. In any case, if Miss W had asked for a copy, Im sure Cofunds wouldve 
provided her with one. In the circumstances Im unable to say its done anything wrong. 
I note Miss W is also unhappy that she wasnt told about the options open to her, including 
transferring the ISA to her mother, rather than closing the account. But in the circumstances, 
I cant blame Cofunds for following her instructions rather than offering advice, which I dont 
think it was obliged to, given the circumstances. In any case, I note the indemnity form made 
clear that Miss W could transfer the ISA to her mother, so if she wanted clarification or 
guidance, she was free to do so and Im sure Cofunds wouldve assisted.  
I appreciate that in April 2020 Cofunds couldve explained why the payment to Miss Ws 
mother was less than what it had quoted in August 2019  although there wouldve been no 
need if it had done so earlier. But at this point I dont think Cofunds was aware that Miss W 
was expecting to receive the figure quoted back in August. Nevertheless, I understand that 
Cofunds has taken on board feedback, and will ensure that future correspondence will make 
clear that any quoted fund value isnt guaranteed. I should make clear that Miss W, as the representative of her fathers estate, isnt technically 
entitled to any compensation from the business, so in the circumstances I cant direct it to 
pay her anything. That notwithstanding, I understand that Cofunds has, of its own volition, 
offered to pay Miss W £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, which 
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss W will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer of redress by Cofunds Limited is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman