DRN-2333465
The complaint
Mr P has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions made using his debit 
card which he didnt make. Hes also concerned about how they dealt with his complaint.
What happened
In November and December 2018 a number of gambling transactions were made  totalling 
£8,400  using Mr Ps Barclays debit card. He complained hed not made these transactions 
and wanted them refunded.
Barclays initially agreed to refund £2,000 of this amount but then believed this had been the 
wrong decision. In a letter to Mr P in August 2019 they offered him £200 for this mistake. By 
this stage his account has also been closed but Mr P didnt think hed been told about this.
As he was so concerned about a range of aspects on this complaint, Mr P wrote to Barclays 
Chief Executive. He then received a further letter from Barclays to confirm they wished to 
reinstate the offer of refunding £2,000 which theyd originally made. The offer of £200 
compensation for how theyd dealt with his original complaint also continued to stand.
Mr P didnt accept this offer. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He felt 
that the default should also be removed from his credit record.
Our investigator felt that the evidence showed Mr P had more than likely made the disputed 
transactions himself. He therefore wouldnt be asking Barclays to refund £8,400. As Barclays 
offer of £2,200 was way more than hed have asked them to make for the poor service Mr P 
had received, he didnt think it would be fair to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mr P felt hed been treated unfairly and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He 
also mentioned he had a further complaint which related to his credit card account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im not going to cover all the points raised by Mr P. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Im also not going to repeat all of what our investigator confirmed in his views of 29 March 
and 6 April 2020. I will instead concentrate on the key aspects which impact the decision Im 
making. I can reassure Mr P that Ive considered all his submissions.  
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Again our rules allow me to do this.
Disputed transactions
Mr P has told us that someone else got hold of his debit card and used it to make the 
gambling transactions he disputes. Unfortunately I dont believe this is what happened.  
From reviewing Mr Ps statements before those that are disputed, I can see many earlier 
transactions made to the same gambling company that £6,400 of the disputed transactions 
were made. These earlier transactions also follow a similar pattern where payments into 
Mr Ps current account provide the financial space to allow the gambling transactions, made 
with his debit card. It would be unusual for someone using Mr Ps debit card to gamble, to 
also top up the account to allow them to do so.
Ive also seen, as well as the pattern fitting Mr Ps previous gambling spend, that the 
transactions were made using the same IP address as Mr Ps non-disputed transactions 
often came from. 
The second gambling company  where £2,000 was spent  has also shown their account-
holder had all the same personal details as Mr P. This account was opened that day once 
the other gambling company would allow no further spend. (This only happened after £6,400 
was spent).
Theres no doubt that fraud does happen and peoples debit cards are used without 
authorisation even for gambling transactions. However the evidence doesnt suggest thats 
what happened here. I believe Mr P made these transactions himself.
Customer service
Theres no doubt Barclays didnt cover themselves in glory when trying to resolve Mr Ps 
complaint. For example they initially miscategorised this as a merchant dispute rather than 
fraud. They promised to contact him but repeatedly didnt.
However Im not convinced that Barclays didnt confirm Mr Ps account was to be closed or 
that a default was to be lodged. Barclays are required to meet standards in doing both of 
these and Ive seen nothing to suggest they didnt meet these. Nor do I believe the default 
isnt a true reflection of the status of Mr Ps account.
Regardless of how bad Barclays service was, theres no scenario where Id be asking 
Barclays to pay Mr P more than theyve offered him. This is partly because as Ive already 
confirmed I believe Mr P authorised the disputed transactions in the first place. 
Barclays has offered to credit £2,000 to his overall debt which will reduce what he owes 
them. They will also pay him £200 if he confirms where that payment can be made.
I believe this is a fair and reasonable way to deal with Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P has mentioned weve not considered a complaint about his credit card. Im sorry if this 
has not been made clear to him but his credit card provider is a different corporate entity to 
Barclays so I cant consider those issues here. He will also need to give his credit card 
provider an opportunity to resolve the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman