DRN-3738048
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy StoneX Financial Ltd trading as City Index (City Index) closed all his 
positions due to his account falling below the required 50% margin level.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I understand my decision isnt what Mr R wanted, I agree with the 
overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain why:
First, Id like to say I understand this complaint concerns a large amount of money 
and I sympathize with Mr R, but its important to say when deciding his claim I must 
consider if City Index acted within the terms and conditions he agreed to when 
opening his account and if they did so fairly and reasonably.
The terms and conditions in question say if the margin level of Mr Rs account fell 
below the margin close out level (50% of the margin requirement), City Index may 
close all or any of his open positions.
Its not in dispute Mr Rs account had a margin call, rather he disputes City Indexs 
decision to close all of his positions instead of doing so individually until his account 
was brought back into line.
Whilst I acknowledge it wouldve been preferable for Mr R had City Index closed his 
positions one by one. The terms and conditions Mr R signed up to clearly set out if 
you do not hold sufficient funds to meet your margin requirements, then we may 
close your open positions immediately and without notice.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs comments regarding City Indexs decision to close 
all his positions. And whilst I can understand Mr Rs frustration his account was held 
on an execution only basis. City Indexs terms and conditions state we shall not give 
advice to you on the merits of any Trade and shall deal with you on an execution-only 
basis.
So, Im satisfied City Index never agreed to manage Mr Rs account. As such I think 
they acted fairly and reasonable by closing all Mr Rs positions to limit his losses 
when his account had a margin call. I dont think they had any obligation to review his 
positions individually to proactively further limit his losses. 
I understand Mr Rs frustration that he couldnt place orders at the time, but Ive seen 
no evidence he was prevented from managing his account.
While I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed with my findings, in the circumstances of 
this case, Im satisfied City Index acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be asking 
City Index to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about StoneX Financial Ltd trading as 
City Index.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman