DRN-4072721
The complaint
Mr J and Miss L have complained to us about the sale of three loans given by East 
Lancashire Moneyline (IPS) Limited. They say the loans were granted irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J and Miss L were granted a total of three loans by way of fixed sum loan agreements: a 
loan for £350 in August 2019, a loan for £1,000 in March 2020 repayable over 12 months 
and another loan for £1,000 in July 2021 repayable over 12 months. 
East Lancashire Moneyline thought the lending decisions were reasonable, although it 
refunded £320 of interest that was due to be paid on the third loan, as well as some 
additional interest that had been incurred. This was after Mr J and Miss L got into difficulty 
with the repayments. 
As Mr J and Miss L didnt agree the lending decisions were fair and responsible, one of our 
investigators looked into each of the decisions. Having done so, they thought that this was a 
complaint that we couldnt uphold. 
As Mr J and Miss L didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
East Lancashire Moneyline will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our investigators assessment gave an account of the purpose of each loan, so I dont intend 
to cover that here. 
Mr J and Miss Ls complaint is that East Lancashire Moneyline acted irresponsibly in making 
credit available that was unaffordable.
At the time of each loan application East Lancashire Moneyline carried out credit searches to 
assess Mr J and Miss Ls level of income and debt before making a lending decision. The 
purpose of this was to help it to understand how Mr J and Miss L had been managing their 
finances. Based on this information, East Lancashire Moneyline decided that there was 
enough disposable income available to ensure that each loan was capable of being repaid 
sustainably. 
East Lancashire Moneyline also asked Mr J and Miss L to provide income and expenditure 
information which also was factored into the information on which the lending decisions were 
based. Ive seen copies of the calculations East Lancashire Moneyline used. For the first 
loan, the calculation showed Mr J and Miss L had a total monthly net income of around 
£1,800, for the second loan it was around £1,600 and by the time of the third loan this had 
increased to around £2,300. Ive also noted that Mr J and Miss Ls credit record showed no 
recent history of county court judgments, defaults or any late payments.
The checks showed that Mr J and Miss L were only making minimal payments towards credit 
at the time of the first and second loans. By the time of the third loan they were paying an 
increased sum of £135 per month by way other credit commitments. Based on these 
calculations, East Lancashire Money estimated that Mr J and Miss L had sufficient 
disposable income available at the time each of the three loans; of £412, £364 and £845 
respectively.
From what Ive seen, the information that East Lancashire Moneyline had at the time of each 
lending decision was enough to be able to fairly make each lending decision. And based on 
the committed regular expenditure, such as living costs, that Mr J and Miss L had provided 
details of, the lending appeared to be affordable with repayments that Mr J and Miss L would 
be able to manage to make sustainably. 
It follows that, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I havent seen 
enough evidence to think that the credit East Lancashire Moneyline provided to Mr J and 
Miss L at the time of each lending decision was likely to be unaffordable. 
I know that Mr J and Miss L will be disappointed with my decision. In relation to the last loan 
I would ask that, if it hasnt already been repaid, East Lancashire Moneyline takes the 
necessary steps to put in a place an appropriate and affordable repayment plan that fully 
takes on board their financial situation, if it hasnt already. I understand that no further 
interest is being charged. 
It follows that I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman