DRN-2359029
The complaint
Mr C complained that Nationwide Building Society told him he would no longer be able to
access internet banking with the older computer operating system he was using. Hed 
believed Nationwide, so hed bought a new computer, then found that this wasnt true.
What happened
Mr C told us that at the end of August 2019 Nationwide announced it would stop supporting
users of two older computer operating systems from 30th September 2010. Mr Cs computer
ran one of those older operating systems, and it couldnt be upgraded. After discussions with
Nationwide that didnt add any clarity to what was being done, and with the deadline
looming, Mr C purchased a new computer.
Mr C said that hed found out since that all Nationwide actually intended to do was change
the security software it uses to log users on to internet banking. And he already had the
necessary upgraded security software on his old computer, so he didnt need to buy a new
one.
Mr C said Nationwide had made a number of claims about what it was doing and the
reasons behind this, both before and after the eventual change, which were wrong. He felt it
had misled him about needing a new computer, and he said it was still giving out misleading
messages now, about why he was able to log on with his old computer after all.
Mr C said Nationwide was still giving this misleading message when he complained to us. Its
website continued to say, "From 30 September 2019 you'll no longer be able to access our
website or Internet Bank if you use [one of two older computer operating systems].
Mr C said he didnt want to claim for financial loss, because he could still sell the
reconditioned computer he bought for about what he paid for it. He said that Nationwide had
paid him £75 in compensation, but he thought it should compensate him further for the
several days of effort he spent setting up mail, home office and entertainment applications
on a new computer he didnt need after all. He said hed also spent a considerable amount
of time researching the security software and regulatory requirements that were the real
reasons for what Nationwide was doing. He wanted Nationwide to pay him £690 for that.
Nationwide has accepted, in letters to Mr C, that the reasons for asking Mr C to upgrade
were somewhat different to those originally given to Mr C. It has clarified that it was
removing access to its online banking for those who had outdated security software, not
those who had the older operating systems it had mentioned. But the more updated security
software it now requires usually isnt available on the older computer operating system Mr C
was using. So it had written to users of that system, to say they would no longer be able to
log on, initially from its planned update deadline of end September 2019, then for the revised
deadline of early 2020.
Nationwide said that the complicated and technical details of the changes it was making
werent suitable for the majority of its customers, so it had sent out a simplified message. It
continues to argue that in order to be able to log on now, Mr C must have installed a
particular security patch on his old operating system.
Mr C says that isnt right, and hes able to continue using his computer with the old operating
system because of the web browser he chooses to use on that system.
When Nationwide wrote to our service, it repeated that Mr C would have always needed to
upgrade his computer, as it had only delayed the change it was making from late 2019 to
early 2020, and it was always going to be removing access to internet banking using the old
operating system. But Mr C has told it hes still able to use the old operating system,
because he uses an up to date browser.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although Mr Cs
system continued to work after the changes Nationwide implemented, it may not have been
as secure. She didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Nationwide gave him no choice, he had to upgrade his
computer. He said that he trusted his bank when it said that he wouldnt be able to access
online banking with his old computer after September 2019. He said it was only in April 2020
that the bank accepted it wasnt really withdrawing access to the older computer operating
system he was using, it was just withdrawing access using older security software.
He said that Nationwide was now misleading our service. It was still saying that it stopped
supporting that older computer operating system from 28 January 2020, but that wasnt true.
Mr C said he was still able to access internet banking using two different computers running
versions of that old operating system, and he sent us evidence of this. Mr C said that
whoever at Nationwide had been telling us that it had stopped supporting this old version of
software was either mistaken or lying.
Mr C said that he didnt believe that although the system worked it may not have been
secure. He said he kept his computers secure, and had never been hacked although the
system he was working on hadnt had security updates since 2014. Mr C wanted us to
reconsider.
Our investigator didnt change her mind, so Mr C asked for his complaint to be considered by
an ombudsman. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I havent set out in full the lengthy correspondence that Mr C had with Nationwide. 
But I have considered that in full.
To summarise, Mr C was told, at rather short notice, that Nationwide was removing 
access to online banking for customers using the computer operating system 
installed on his computer. He endeavoured to find out more, but received no detailed 
information at this point. With the deadline looming, Mr C upgraded his computer.
When Mr C was still able to use his old computer, he made further enquiries. He 
received less than detailed responses from Nationwide initially. So Mr C did a 
considerable amount of work himself to find out what changes Nationwide was 
making, and why.Mr C is now clear that he did not need to upgrade. Although Nationwide continues to 
think that Mr C must have installed a security patch which hes shown us he did not 
install, it has accepted that he can still log into online banking on his old computer. 
He did not need to upgrade.
I understand that Nationwide would prefer not to issue a complex message about 
upcoming changes to its internet banking. As it has said, thats unlikely to be suitable 
for most of its customers, who are perhaps not as comfortable with IT as Mr C. 
However, I think its very disappointing that, even when Mr C asked detailed 
questions about the changes Nationwide was making, it has taken quite some time to 
come up with detailed and accurate responses.
I think its important to stress here how long this problem has continued for.
-Mr C started asking Nationwide about this in September 2019. Nationwide finally
began to explain what it was actually doing in April 2020.
-Mr C told Nationwide which browser he was using in September 2019. And hes
shown us hes still able to log on with that browser now. So it seems likely that
Nationwide could have told Mr C then that he wouldnt need to change his 
computer, or that it couldve assisted him further to check.
I think Nationwides responses in this case have meant Mr C spent both money and 
time he did not need to spend on this issue.
For that reason, I dont think that Nationwides payment of £75 is enough to make up 
for whats gone wrong in this case. I note Mr C says he could resell the computer he 
purchased, so he doesnt think hes financially worse off. And I dont think that 
Nationwide has to pay the day rate for an IT consultant that Mr C suggested. But I do 
think it should pay more than £75. I think a further payment of £175, to make total 
compensation of £250, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it agreed to pay the amount Id suggested. 
Mr C said he would not dispute my overall finding. But he wanted to suggest three technical 
corrections, and to make a comment. 
In each case, where Mr C has suggested a technical change, hes commenting on the 
section where I set out what happened. That includes my summary of the arguments that 
each side put forward. 
Ill deal with each of these suggested amendments in turn. 
The first amendment that Mr C suggests is to how Ive summarised the arguments he had 
put forward. Mr C noted where Id said that "Mr C ... had never been hacked although the 
system he was working on hadn't had security updates since 2014". He said that wasnt 
right, as hed updated his browser, antivirus and anti-spyware software. He said it would be more accurate to refer to the lack of security updates for his computer operating system, 
which stopped in 2014, with the exception of an emergency update hed installed in 2017. 
I had intended in this sentence to refer to Mr Cs computer operating system not having 
regular security updates since 2014. So the comment Mr C makes there reflects my 
intended meaning, and there is no change to my overall decision as a result.
The remaining technical changes which Mr C suggested, are amendments to my summary 
of the arguments that Nationwide has put forward. I dont think it would be appropriate, or in 
keeping with our services role as an independent adjudication service, to amend my 
summary of the arguments that Nationwide has put forward, as a result of Mr Cs comments. 
I note that Nationwide has not objected to the way in which its arguments were 
characterised. I will simply note Mr Cs comments below, so that Mr Cs objections to the 
arguments put forward by Nationwide are noted.
Mr C noted where Id said that "the more updated security software it now required usually 
isn't available on the older operating system" but he said that wasnt correct. He thought that 
up to date browsers would generally be able to connect to Nationwides revised online 
banking system, so he said it would be more accurate to say "the newer security protocols it 
now requires might not have worked with some older internet browsers". And he didnt think 
that was a complex message to give to customers. 
Mr C noted where Id said that "it was just withdrawing access using older security software" 
but he said that also wasnt correct - Nationwide was withdrawing access "... using older 
browser software" (which could not support the latest security protocols).
Mr C noted Id reported that Nationwide said "the complicated and technical details of the 
changes it was making weren't suitable for the majority of its customers so it had sent out a
simplified message". He said that wasnt what it had said to him. It had said "we had to 
target language that the majority of our members would relate to and understand, which is
why we mentioned operating systems". 
Mr C suggested that a more accurate finding would be "... so it had sent out a misleading 
and technically incorrect message". He said it wasnt "simplified" to say the older operating 
system could not be used - it was simply untrue. He said that other banks correctly advised 
users to upgrade their browsers. 
This final point I think does need some comment, as Mr C has suggested what he feels 
would be an appropriate finding for me to make. I didnt uphold this complaint because of the 
messaging that Nationwide had used for its customers. I still dont think thats the core 
problem in this case. I think, as I said in my provisional decision, that what went wrong here 
was what happened when Mr C asked further questions about what was being done, and 
why.
I note that Mr C continues to have strong views about the action that Nationwide has taken. 
But I dont think its for me to question the assessment that Nationwide made of just how 
comfortable its customers are with IT.
Mr C then commented on the fact that Nationwides website still carries the same message 
about withdrawing access using the older operating system. He felt that continuing to 
suggest customers make an unnecessary, costly, time-consuming and risky system upgrade 
seemed negligent of Nationwide, 6 months after acknowledging that this was incorrect. Mr C 
said he was disappointed that I had not made a stronger comment on this aspect of 
Nationwides behaviour, although he understood it would not alter my overall decision.Im sorry that Mr C is disappointed, but the decision Ive set out here is in keeping with our 
services overall role. I can only look here at whats happened in Mr Cs case. Whether 
Nationwide has revised its website or not since then isnt something which affects his overall 
position, and I cant instruct Nationwide to change it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr C £175, in addition to the 
£75 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman