DRN-4385909
The complaint
The estate of Miss C has complained about what happened when an application was made 
to Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages for a second charge to be placed on 
the property.
Mr P is administering the estate, so any reference to Mr P in this decision should be taken to 
mean him acting in that capacity where appropriate.
What happened
Miss C had a mortgage with Siberite. She died in December 2018, and in March 2020 Mr P 
obtained Letters of Administration so he could settle the estate.
I wont detail all the back and forth here as it isnt in dispute that there was confusion and 
delays. Instead, I will just highlight the key points.
In March 2022 Mr P contacted Siberite to ask for its consent for a second charge to be 
granted in favour of the local council for a loan to fund repairs to the property. The mortgage 
was still in the name of Miss C, albeit Siberite was aware she had died and that it was 
corresponding with Mr P as the representative of her estate.
On 8 April 2022 Siberite wrote to Mr P confirming it would consent to a second charge in 
favour of the council for a loan of £25,000 with a five-year term.
On 10 June 2022 the council wrote to Siberite. It said it was in receipt of an application for a 
loan under a scheme which aimed to bring empty properties back into use. It said the council 
would require consent from Siberite for a temporary second charge to be registered against 
the property, with the details of its loan being that it would be for £30,000 over a three-year 
term.
Siberite misunderstood the situation and declined the request from the council on the 
grounds it thought the council wanted its charge to be first priority, ahead of Siberites 
charge. Siberite said it would need to remain as first charge.
Once that situation was resolved, on 1 August 2022 Siberite confirmed it would still be 
unable to consent to the second charge due to the length of time since Miss C had died and 
it would have expected the mortgage to have already been redeemed.
Mr P complained to Siberite and it responded in September 2022. It said it should have 
turned the request for consent down in April 2022, apologised for the inconvenience and 
offered £100 compensation.
Meanwhile Mr P had referred the complaint to our service, and it was looked at by one of our 
Investigators who thought that whilst Siberite had got things wrong, he didnt think it should 
be bound by the April 2022 letter (which is what Mr P wanted).
Mr P didnt accept our Investigators findings and so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, the findings of which said:
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer, which was the late Miss C 
in this case. As she had died the right to complain passed to her estate. But I must explain 
that, although Mr P is representing the estate, he (personally) wasnt Siberites customer 
here. Mr Ps role is to bring the complaint on behalf of the estate, in the same way that a 
person might instruct a solicitor or other professional to represent them in a complaint. 
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mr P in his personal capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected him (or had a financial cost to him) personally. In saying this I 
understand the points hes made, but unfortunately thats just not something Ive got the 
power to consider.
This means we cant consider a complaint about the costs Mr P incurred as that is about 
him personally and hes not Siberites customer in this matter under our rules. We also 
cant consider any distress hes been caused or his loss of expectation because, again, 
those are all things that affected Mr P personally.
Mr P has said the April 2022 letter from Siberite was a legally binding agreement, and that 
is what the courts would decide. I cant comment on what a court may or may not decide in 
this matter, however I would say that Mr Ps request that Siberite responded to in April 
2022 was for £25,000 over five years, whereas the application the council said it had (and 
it asked for consent for) was for £30,000 over three years, so a different request.
If Mr P feels a court would order Siberite to grant the second charge to the council then he 
can take matters to court if he wants to do so. However, I would recommend he seeks 
independent legal advice before doing so.
But for our consideration I have to think about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Upon reflection, Siberite wasnt willing to grant consent for a second charge over the 
property for any amount, term or reason as the mortgage remained in Miss Cs name, 
despite her having passed away four years earlier. It is generally expected that mortgage 
debts are settled (that is, either the property is sold, or the debt refinanced in some way) 
within a year or so of the mortgage holder passing away, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Siberite to not agree to the second charge in these circumstances.
Siberite should have told Mr P that in April 2022, rather than it taking four months until 
August to do so. I would normally consider awarding any out-of-pocket expenses a 
complainant had incurred due to that delay. That is, Id look at what costs the estate 
incurred, but wouldnt have incurred if Siberite had given the correct information in April. 
As Ive explained, the eligible complainant is Miss Cs estate not Mr P personally, and so 
our Investigator asked Mr P for evidence of any costs that the estate incurred (rather than 
costs he personally had incurred) due to the delay between April and August.
Eleven weeks have passed since our Investigator requested that evidence and, despite a 
chaser from our Investigator, that information has still not been provided by Mr P. We cant 
keep cases in abeyance indefinitely and so, as we havent received any evidence of any 
costs incurred by the estate due to the delay, I cant make any order or award for any 
financial loss.I appreciate how frustrating this has been for Mr P but this complaint is made by Miss Cs 
estate (rather than by him personally). And, while I sympathise with his position, I cant 
award compensation for any loss of expectation and distress caused to him. I understand 
his strength of feeling about this matter but I cant see that hes evidenced that Miss Cs 
estate has suffered any financial loss due to the actions of Siberite. That, ultimately, is the 
test I must apply.
However, I do think an estate can experience delay or inconvenience  but in this case 
Siberite has already offered £100 for that in its response to the complaint.
Theres always going to be inconvenience in dealing with an estate especially where, as 
here, the estate still hadnt been settled some four years after Miss Cs death, and two 
years after Mr P had been granted the Letters of Administration so he could settle the 
estate.
In my view and taking everything into account, I think the £100 Siberite has already offered 
adequately, fairly and reasonably compensates the estate of Miss C for the delay in saying 
the second charge wouldnt be granted due to the length of time that had passed without 
the estate being settled.
In closing, I understand that Mr P will be disappointed with the limit to my consideration of 
things  but I hope my explanation helps him to understand why this is the case.
Despite a reminder of the deadline neither party responded to my provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages has already made an offer to pay £100 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages should pay £100 to the estate of 
Miss C. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate 
of Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman