DRN-3705576
The complaint
Mr C complains Arrow Global Limited have unfairly recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C had a credit card account with a lender. I understand the account was opened on 
22 November 2012, with it being assigned to Arrow on 5 July 2019. At the time of the 
assignment, the outstanding balance was £1,759.26. Arrow asked one of their agents, who 
Ill refer to as N, to manage Mr Cs account on their behalf.
Mr C is someone who would be classed as vulnerable. He says he told Arrow this when he 
first contacted them, as well as N, so everyone was aware. To help him, an arrangement 
was made with N for payments to be made monthly over the phone.
Mr C complained to N about these calls not happening. In September 2020 N said, in 
summary, these calls hadnt happened which had led to arrears building on his account. 
They said sorry for this and provided some compensation.
In August 2021 Mr C complained to N again, saying the calls still werent happening, but now 
hed had a letter dated 23 August saying his agreement had been terminated. When he 
found out about the default, he also raised concerns regarding this. 
N said a Notice of Termination letter was sent on 15 June 2021, which said Mr C had to 
settle the balance on or before 23 August 2021. But, the balance wasnt settled, so they then 
issued a Termination letter on 23 August 2021. They said there had been multiple attempts 
to contact him on the phone, theyd also written to him, so overall didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
At this point, I think its helpful to explain that although N were managing Mr Cs account, 
Arrow as the owners of the account are responsible for applying the default.
Following this, Mr C made an offer to settle the account, with Arrow accepted. Mr C then 
complained to Arrow about the default not being removed from his account, as he didnt 
think this was fair given how N had managed things. 
Arrow explained when they were assigned Mr Cs account, it hadnt been defaulted. They 
said they made a business decision to not report this account to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). They said this is because there was no fixed minimum payment amount. 
They explained later on, they sent a letter with an intention to terminate the agreement, and 
that Mr C had 69 days to pay the outstanding amount. As no payment was received, they 
applied a default with the CRAs.
Mr C replied to Arrow, explaining he didnt think Arrow had seen how his account had been 
handled. He said when N were ringing him the ringer only went two or three times not giving 
him enough time to answer it. A member of staff insulted him on a call, and finally as 
someone who has a long-term disability he asks where he was supposed to get the funds to 
pay off the debt within a short time period.
Unhappy with Arrows response, Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators 
did so and said Arrow didnt handle things correctly. Because of this, he said they should 
remove the default and pay Mr C £300 compensation.
Mr C accepted the outcome, but Arrow didnt. They said Ns last response showed all the 
correct calls had been made, so they didnt agree. Because of that, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation that allows Arrow to end their agreement with Mr C is the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, and specifically section 98(A) which is titled Termination etc of 
open-end consumer credit agreements.
Part 3 of this act says:
Where a regulated open-end consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, provides for termination of the agreement by the creditor
(a)the termination must be by notice served on the debtor, and
(b)the termination may not take effect until after the end of the period of two months, or such 
longer period as the agreement may provide, beginning with the day after the day on which 
notice is served.
Arrow have said there were no minimum payments expected  and this was a credit card 
account. So, it meets the definition of an open-end consumer credit agreement.
This means Arrow can terminate the account with two months notice  this is what they did 
by sending their letter on 15 June 2021. The agreement was then terminated just over the 
two months  so this is fine.
But there is no provision I can see in the legislation that allows for this to serve a dual 
purpose as a default notice  which it appears is what Arrow have done.
So, I cant see that Arrow have given Mr C a fair opportunity to repay what he owed.
Id also add that I dont agree with Arrows comments that all calls took place correctly. Its 
clear from Ns own words that there were numerous issues with calling Mr C as they had 
agreed to do so  and as Mr C needed due to his specific circumstances.
So, taking into account those two pieces of information, I need to consider what would have 
happened, had things been handled correctly.
By Ns own words, part of the reason the account fell into default is due to them not calling 
Mr C to take the payments as theyd agreed to do. I cant see this matter was ever fully 
resolved  as ultimately Mr C had to resort to paying N online, to ensure the payments were 
made. So, I think this is part of the reason the arrears built up.
In addition, Mr C has subsequently demonstrated he could have paid off the debt. My 
understanding is Mr C received a large disability payment shortly after the account was 
defaulted  and did agree a partial settlement with Arrow to close the account down.So, given it seems N werent calling Mr C like theyd agreed to, and they didnt send a 
default notice giving Mr C a fair chance to repay the debt  I dont think Arrow have treated 
Mr C fairly.
Because of that, I do think Arrow need to remove the default, and pay Mr C £300 
compensation for the distress this matter has caused him. Hes explained he was hoping to 
purchase a property, but this has had to be put on hold due to Arrows errors. I can also see 
Mr C has tried to clarify Arrows apparent misunderstanding about events, but with no 
success.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require 
Arrow Global Limited to remove the default from all CRAs and pay Mr C £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman