DRN-2678312
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the settlement paid to him by Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
in respect of his contents insurance claim for malicious damage and theft.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T returned to his flat in the morning having been out at work all night. He 
found the door had been forced and his belongings, including clothes, furniture, furnishings 
and electrical items vandalised. Most of his clothes had been sprayed with paint. He made a 
claim to Lloyds who arranged for any potentially recoverable items to be assessed. 
Ultimately it was decided that none of the clothes were recoverable. Lloyds asked Mr T for 
lists of the items damaged. Mr T wasnt able to supply evidence of the cost of the items but 
put on the lists his own assessment of the value of the items.
Lloyds arranged to assess the value of the items damaged/lost and then told Mr T what its 
cash offer was. Mr T was unhappy with the assessed value of his clothing which he believed 
to be far less than he paid for it. Eventually Lloyds made an offer of £5,160, which Mr T 
accepted, and a payment was made to him in settlement in July 2020.
In November 2020 Mr T contacted Lloyds and advised it that he thought the settlement for 
his clothing was unfair and he wouldnt be able to replace a lot of the items. He said that at 
the time of agreeing the settlement (which he didnt recall doing) he had been in hospital on 
strong drugs, which Lloyds was aware of. He said, if he did accept the settlement he was 
under duress at the time. He further said that the lock on his door was still broken and Lloyds 
hadnt taken any action to fix it.
On referral to this service our investigator ultimately found that Lloyds had acted reasonably 
in assessing the value of the clothing. As Mr T has a contents only policy Lloyds wasnt 
responsible for the damage to the door. Which could only be dealt with by the building 
owner/their insurer. 
Mr T didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to the settlement offered to Mr T, I think he did accept it and Lloyds had reason 
to believe this was an agreed settlement. I note that he advises he had been in hospital and 
was on strong drugs at the time but I have noted that he was emailing Lloyds around that 
time. In particular he had been corresponding over the payments offered for his clothing and 
his blinds. Lloyd s clarified that it would increase the payment for the blinds but wouldnt 
increase its offer for the clothing. Mr T clearly accepted the offer and I cant see any reason 
for Lloyds to have questioned this further, it noted his acceptance and arranged to pay the 
funds to his account. He didnt chase the matter up again until some four months later.
Nevertheless the offer wasnt made or accepted as full and final settlement so Mr T has the 
right to ask for it to be reviewed. However Ive noted that Lloyds asked its personal claims 
consultant (PCC) to look at all the items and he assessed these by reviewing the types of 
items they were, considering the prices from the various retailers. The clothing was more 
difficult to assess but I havent seen evidence apart from Mr Ts view as to how much the 
items were worth, that counters Lloyds offer. I bear in mind in particular that Mr T wasnt 
able to supply evidence of the cost of items to him. The offer made was based on the PCCs 
judgement, bearing in mind what he assessed as reasonable. As Lloyds stands by that 
assessment I have no reason to ask it to review its offer. If Mr T has any other evidence that 
would enable Lloyds to reassess the amount it paid for any particular items then he should 
produce it to Lloyds. But I must advise him that it is for him to prove his claim, including the 
value of it.
As regards the locks, as Lloyds has pointed out there is no cover under this contents policy 
for replacing the locks (unless the keys were lost or stolen) nor for repairing the door, as the 
lock and the door are parts of the building. Ive noted that Mr T advised Lloyds at the time of 
the payment being made that he was still waiting for the council to repair his door, so it had 
no reason to suppose that Mr T expected it to deal with this. Im sorry that the door might still 
need repairing, but I cant ask Lloyds to deal with this as its not covered under the policy.
Finally Im sorry that Mr T has been suffering poor health and that the break-in has affected 
him badly. I can however only assess how Lloyds dealt with the claim, and I think it dealt 
with it reasonably. So I wont be asking Lloyds to take any other action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman