DRN-3062462
Complaint
Miss H has complained about the overdraft fees and interest Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
applied to her current account. Shes said the interest, fees and charges added caused her 
financial hardship.
Background and my provisional decision of 6 September 2021
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint and thought Lloyds should have 
realised Miss Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by March 2016 and so it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Hs overdraft from this 
point. Lloyds eventually disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
On 6 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ps 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
  
I started by saying that that I hadnt considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged 
over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the 
service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. 
And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while I didnt look at Lloyds charging structure per se, I did think it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss H if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Miss Hs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss H was experiencing financial difficulty. So I considered whether there 
were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Miss H fairly and reasonably because it failed to act 
when told Miss H was in financial difficulty, or it failed to recognise this in circumstances 
where it ought to have done. 
My consideration of this matter started by pointing out that it was clear Miss Hs account was 
a graduate account, which didnt regularly have interest added to it, at the time our 
adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld from. And it looked like Miss Hs account 
wasnt converted into a standard current account until August 2018. So I thought that any 
attempt to take corrective action in relation to the overdraft, bearing in mind the associated 
implications, wouldnt have been reasonable or proportionate prior to August 2018.
I then went on to look through Miss Hs statements from August 2018 onwards. And I 
couldnt see that Lloyds ought to have been aware that Miss H might have been struggling 
during these periods. Miss H was using her overdraft regularly and I acknowledged that she 
might have argued that this in itself was indicative of financial difficulty. But, while I wasnt 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss H expenditure, nonetheless there 
were significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
as well as transfers going out from her account. And the amount being credited to Miss Hs 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, she often had a credit balance on the account.
I accepted that neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) meant that Miss H 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But I didnt think that there was anything in Miss Hs 
account statements or in the transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Lloyds 
to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances, I didnt think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it did add to Miss Hs 
account. And I didnt think Lloyds unfairly charged Miss H in circumstances where it ought to 
have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this was the case, I didnt think that Lloyds needed to refund any of the interest, fees and 
charges added to Miss Hs account and I said that I wasnt intending to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint. 
Lloyds response to my provisional decision
Lloyds confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, its acceptance of it and that it had 
nothing further for me to think about ahead of my final decision.
Miss Hs response to my provisional decision   
Miss H also responded to my provisional decision. She confirmed her disagreement and in 
summary she:
said since making her complaint her financial hardship and mental health have 
deteriorated significantly;
said having to continually use credit cards and borrow money from family and friends 
has been significantly hard;
reiterated our adjudicators initial reasons for upholding the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything theyve said and provided. 
I want to start by saying that I can understand why Miss H will have found my provisional 
decision disappointing. And Im sorry to hear that Miss H is experiencing financial hardship 
and the effect that this has had on her mental health. That said, what I was required to 
determine in my provisional decision and what Im still required to determine in this final 
decision, is whether Lloyds ought to have realised this sooner and therefore charged Miss H 
unfairly and so needs to refund any interest it charged.  
And having considered Miss Hs further points, I still remain satisfied that this isnt the case. 
Im aware of what our adjudicator said in her initial assessment. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision Miss H didnt have a standard current account where she was paying 
interest in 2016. She was on preferential terms where she was, in any event, not being 
charged interest on her overdrawn balance. 
So while I agree Miss H was using her overdraft regularly at this stage she wasnt paying 
any interest to do so. And any attempt any taking corrective action in relation to Miss Hs 
overdraft, at this stage, wouldnt have been reasonable or proportionate bearing in mind Miss H wasnt required to pay any interest (and therefore wasnt losing out) and the 
associated credit-file implications.
Miss H did pay interest on her overdraft from August 2018 onwards. And Ive seen what 
shes said about having to continually use credit cards and borrow money from family and 
friends. But I cant see that she told Lloyds about this or that Lloyds ought to have been 
aware that Miss H was struggling at this stage.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the significant amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions as well as transfers going out from the account; 
the amount being credited to Miss Hs account each month and Miss H often having a credit 
balance all suggested that the overdraft was manageable. And while I sympathise with    
Miss Hs current difficulties and financial position, what shes said in her response to my 
provisional decision doesnt change this and hasnt persuaded me to reach a different 
conclusion here. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, including Miss Hs further points in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Miss H  especially given the length of time it has taken for 
her c to reach this stage and our adjudicator initially, albeit erroneously, concluded it should 
be upheld. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least 
feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 6 September 2021, 
Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman