DRN-2823631
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund disputed transactions he says he didnt 
make or authorise. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with TSB.
Between 15 and 16 July 2020, a series of transactions were made from Mr Bs account at 
various retail stores. The total value of those payments was just under £3,500.
Mr B says he remembers last using his credit card on 20 May 2020. Hes explained that he 
normally kept his credit card in his wallet. And that it never leaves his side. Hes said he 
hasnt shared his PIN with anyone, hasnt lost his card, lives alone and didnt give his card to 
anyone else to use.
 
Mr B says he first became aware that his credit card had been used to make the 
transactions on 16 July 2020 when he received a text message from TSB letting him know 
he was close to his credit limit. Mr B says he was still in possession of his card so he called 
the bank to find out what was happening with his account. TSB said a number of 
transactions had been made using Mr Bs card and that they wouldnt refund the payments 
as theyd all been done using Mr Bs card and PIN. The bank said Mr B should report the 
matter to the police and obtain CCTV footage. Mr B wasnt happy with this response and 
asked the bank to investigate. 
TSB looked into the transactions and said it thought Mr B authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund him. In summary, TSB said:
The payments were authenticated using Mr Bs card and PIN
No incorrect PIN entries or balance enquiries were made
No transactions were attempted after the card was cancelled
Mr B disagreed with TSBs decision. He said he didnt authorise the transactions and the 
bank were at fault for not stopping the transactions. He says the bank werent helpful to him 
at all and insisted he reported the matter to the police and obtain CCTV footage of the 
transaction before theyd reconsider his fraud claim.  So, he brought his complaint to this 
service where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
In summary the investigator said that:
TSBs technical evidence showed that Mr Bs credit card and PIN were used to 
authenticate each of the disputed transactions
Theres no plausible explanation for how a thief could take possession of Mr Bs 
credit card, use it and then return it without him noticing 
There was no plausible explanation for how an opportunistic thief was able to obtain 
Mr Bs PIN given he said he hadnt disclosed it to anyone else or made a written 
record of it and
Mr B had asked the police and TSB to obtain the footage because he knew he 
wouldnt appear on the recordings. But this doesnt follow that Mr B didnt authorise 
the transactions
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr B had authorised 
these transactions.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said the bank should have done more to 
protect his account and stopped the transactions going through. And hed tried to get the 
CCTV footage because the bank told him that he had to do this in order for it to reconsider 
his fraud claim. He maintained that hed never authorised the transactions and had called 
the bank from his workplace when he received a text that his card was close to its credit 
limit. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr B and TSB have read the investigators 
view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr B that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
 
The basic position is that TSB can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr B made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr B can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that 
the person to whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if 
they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay. 
For each transaction TSB has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Mr Bs bank card and PIN. But thats not enough to hold 
Mr B liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to the 
transactions. or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Bs explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr B has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the payments at 
the various stores. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was responsible. 
Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im satisfied that Mr B 
did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to say TSB needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
TSBs technical evidence shows that Mr Bs genuine card and PIN were used to 
authenticate each of the disputed transactions. This means that whoever made the 
transactions needed to be in possession of both Mr Bs credit card and his PIN.
Mr B says his credit card never left his side and was kept in his wallet. Hes also 
said that hes never disclosed his PIN to anyone and hasnt got a written record of it 
anywhere. Hes explained that he hadnt lost his credit card and when he called the 
bank in response to their text, he was at work and still in possession of his card.Ive considered what Mr B has said. But I dont think its likely that an opportunistic 
thief took Mr Bs credit card from his wallet, used it over a period of two days on 15 
and 16 July 2020, and then replaced it, all without Mr B noticing.
Based on what Mr B has told us and the bank theres no plausible explanation for 
how an opportunistic thief couldve become aware of Mr Bs PIN  hes said he hadnt 
written it down anywhere or told anyone what it was  in other words hed kept it 
safe. Ive also kept in mind that its possible that someone could have seen Mr B 
entering his PIN when he used his card (known as shoulder surfing). But Mr Bs last 
genuine spend using the card and PIN was on 20 May 2020. So, I think its unlikely 
that a thief would wait nearly two months to take and use Mr Bs card. Its more 
typical for the card to be used as quickly and for as much as possible. But this didnt 
happen for some time.
The first disputed transaction took place on 15 July 2020 at just after 2.00pm with a 
further five transactions up until just after 5.00pm, when they stopped. The 
transactions continued the following day with the first occurring at just before 2.00pm 
and the last being made at 6.36pm. I dont think an opportunistic thief wouldve 
waited several hours before using Mr Bs card again on 16 July 2020 because theyd 
be a high risk of Mr B discovering his card was missing and cancelling it before the 
thief could carry on using it. Its more typical for the card to be used as quickly and for 
as much as possible. But again, this didnt happen. 
The last disputed transaction took place on 16 July 2020 at 6.36pm. From TSBs 
records Mr B spoke to the bank at 6.57pm. Ive listened to the call recording of the 
conversation and Mr B says hes calling from work and was in possession of his 
credit card. This means that the thief had around 10 minutes to make their way back 
from the store where theyd used the card, find Mr B and replace the card into Mr Bs 
wallet (without him noticing), which I think is unlikely. But more significant to me is 
that theyd be no reason for the fraudster to return Mr Bs card to him. Afterall, it had 
already been used for a spending spree at various retailers. So, theyd be no benefit 
of them getting the card back to Mr B and running the risk of being discovered by 
him.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about CCTV footage. However, whilst Mr B might 
not have appeared in the footage, it doesnt rule out the possibility that he allowed 
someone else to use his card.
I know Mr B is unhappy that TSB told him hed need to obtain CCTV footage for them 
to reconsider his claim. But as Mr B had told the bank he was the victim of fraud, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to tell Mr B to report the matter to the police. 
Afterall, the police are best placed to conduct criminal investigations which includes 
gathering evidence such as CCTV footage and identifying those responsible  its 
their job. I can see that the bank was keen to obtain any information from the police 
to assist Mr Bs fraud claim such as CCTV footage and told Mr B that it would co-
operate with any investigation via its police liaison department. 
Mr B has said that the bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped them 
from going through. So, the banks at fault. My primary task has been to decide if 
Mr B authorised the disputed transactions. I cant decide he didnt authorise them just 
because TSB didnt block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my 
view connects him to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out above.So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that its likely Mr B made or otherwise 
authorised the disputed transactions. It follows that TSB is entitled to hold him liable for 
them. I know Mr B will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive given I cant ask the bank to 
refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman