DRN-3809574
The complaint
Ms F complains Central FX Limited facilitated a payment she made through it to a fraudulent
investment scheme. As a result, she lost all of her money and would like compensation.
What happened
Ms F told us during our investigation that in 2015 she joined a property network in Sweden,
which at the time was promoting Bar Works - an investment company based in the USA. Ms 
F has explained it was through this property network that she was told the details of the 
investment and what it involved. 
Bar Workss ostensible investment objective was to refurbish former bar and restaurant
premises and turn them into office space. Investors would purchase this space and lease it
back to Bar Works for a period of 10 years. At the time Ms F says she was given guarantees
about Bar Works and its proposition, including her future returns. She says it was an agent 
from this property network that explained to her that everything would be paid through 
Central FX. 
Ms F told this service that in 2016 she attended a property education course in England, at
which point she met with representatives of Central FX. She had discussions with them
about investing in Bar Works, including with one of its senior foreign currency dealers, and
shortly after opened an account with it.
The prospectus for Bar Works didnt contain much detail about how foreign investors could
invest in Bar Works, and merely directed them to Central FX. So after opening her account,
Ms F emailed the broker she had met earlier and asked for help in making the investment to
Bar Works.
There were in fact a number of separate legal entities which formed the Bar Works group 
and which are relevant to this complaint:
Bar Works Chambers LLC;
Bar Works Management Inc;
Bar Works Services Inc;
Bar Works USA/UK Ltd;
Following this email, Ms F spoke to a broker from Central FX on 29 September 2016. A 
transcript of her conversation appears to show that Ms F was concerned with the process. In 
that telephone call, Ms F asked the broker to confirm that Central FX would not release the 
funds until were both signed and everything right? 
The dealer confirmed that Ms Fs understanding was correct. He explained that Central FX 
basically acted as the broker/dealer for Bar Works. He said that whilst they were separate 
organisations, Central FX was in affiliation with Bar Works. 
He confirmed that he would send Ms F a contract note. He then said And then we will upon 
your instructions pay the $100,000 to Bar Works directly. Sound good [Ms F]? Ms F said 
yes, thats great.
Later on 29 September 2016 Ms F received an email from Central FX attaching the contract 
note for the rate she had agreed to lock in to convert her Swedish Krona into US dollars. 
This was now a legally binding agreement between Ms F and Central FX.
The email explained that Ms F had to transfer the agreed amount of Swedish Krona to 
Central FXs account (based in the UK), and complete the onward payment instruction form 
in order to specify the beneficiary of her converted funds. The e-mail said that once Central 
FX received her funds, it would make the payment directly to the beneficiary in accordance 
with the contract note. The email explained that Ms F needed to complete the onward 
payment instruction and send it directly to Central FX before the payment could be made, or 
otherwise supply the beneficiarys details to Central FX directly in an email. 
The second page of the contract note was the onward payment instruction form. The only 
details it contained were the amount to transfer  US$100,000  and the destination country, 
which was shown as US  United States.
Ms F did not complete the form or have any further contact with Central FX  but she 
proceeded to transfer the relevant amount of Swedish Krona as required in the contract to 
Central FXs account on 29 September 2016. On 3 October 2016, Central FX transferred 
$100,000 to an account located in the Bahamas in the name of Bar Works Services Inc. It 
emailed Ms F and confirmed that the payment had been made to Bar Works Services Inc. 
The confirmation of payment gave the account number and SWIFT/BIC code, but did not 
show the destination country.
Ms F had not received her contract from Bar Works by that stage  but about a month later, 
she received her first rental payment from it. Ms F told this service that she found this 
reassuring and assumed that her investment had been made successfully.
Unfortunately for Ms F, she had been the victim of a fraud. Bar Works wasnt in fact a 
legitimate investment company, but a Ponzi scheme that had defrauded thousands of 
investors all around the world. Shortly after Ms F had made her investment, Bar Works 
stopped making payments to its investors.
Throughout 2017 numerous legal proceedings were issued against Bar Works and some of 
its staff, and its chief executive officer was arrested abroad and extradited back to the USA. 
Investor money was lost and is very unlikely to be retrieved.
Background to this decision
I issued a first provisional decision in which I concluded that I was minded not only to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint, but to award her compensation. In short, I provisionally concluded:
Ms F was unable to properly instruct Central FX where to remit the payment she 
intended to make, because she did not have Bar Workss bank details. 
I thought it inappropriate that Central FX obtain instructions from Bar Works itself 
about where money from investors needed to be sent to. 
I thought Ms F ought to have been told that the payment was not being made to the 
USA, but instead to the Bahamas. 
I did not agree that she had authorised the payment. 
I then considered what Ms F wouldve done had Central FX explained to her where her money would be remitted to. I provisionally concluded, on balance, that she would not have 
wanted to go ahead with the transaction. 
In response to my provisional decision, Central FX provided detailed comments. In short, it 
explained its view that the payment was made correctly. And it explained why it didnt think it 
was fair and reasonable to conclude that Ms F couldve avoided losing her money to the 
fraud. 
I reconsidered the matter again and issued a second provisional decision in September 
2022. In it I said:
First, second and third submissions
Central FX has emphasised that investors, including Ms F, werent obliged to use its 
services  and that in any event, the service it offered was limited to being a foreign 
exchange broker. In other words, it did not arrange this investment for Ms F nor did it 
introduce her to Bar Works. Furthermore, it has said that I was wrong to conclude or 
insinuate that it had an improper relationship with Bar Works, when Bar Works was merely 
another one of its clients. It said that the way its business relationship came about with Bar 
Works was entirely ordinary and it had no referral agreement or any other arrangement in 
place with it at the time. 
I accept Central FXs submissions insofar as they relate to the possibility for investors to use 
other firms to invest in Bar Works. But I dont agree that this materially relevant. In my 
provisional conclusions, my findings about the relationship between Bar Works and Central 
FX focused on the following:
That Bar Works nominated Central FX on its brochure as its foreign exchange 
broker. Ive seen no other brochure from Bar Works mentioning another firm. 
That Bar Works was a client of Central FX at the time of Ms Fs payment, and that 
she was told there was an affiliation between the two firms. Whilst I accept the point 
that those words should be given their ordinary meaning, in my view affiliation 
suggests a closer relationship than a mere client-broker one. 
That regardless of how close an affiliated relationship is, it was close enough in this 
case for Central FX to have been given instructions, by Bar Works, as to where 
investor payments ought to be remitted. In other words, it was Bar Works that 
instructed Central FX to remit Ms Fs payment to a specific account, and not Ms F. I 
dont agree that this is in line with the terms of Central FXs agreement with Ms F, 
and Im not persuaded that industry good practice at the time included firms 
accepting instructions from third parties about payments clients wished to make 
(without proper disclosure to those clients). Central FX hasnt addressed this point. 
That as a result of the above points, Central FX was used by a Bar Works as a 
vehicle for fraud  and through which it also derived a financial benefit by virtue of the 
currency conversions it provided both in relation to the original investments, and the 
income the scheme initially provided. In my view when considering the fairness of 
this complaint, this is relevant, even if I accept (as I have done in my provisional 
decision as well) that Central FX was not a willing party to the fraud and was 
unaware of it at the time. 
 
Whilst I acknowledge that Central FX maintains that it had no improper relationship with Bar 
Works, by acting outside the terms of the service it was providing to Ms F, it ultimately 
allowed itself to be used by a fraudster. In my view, it is precisely because it was remitting a payment from one of its clients, to another, that Central FX needed to ensure that it acted 
strictly in accordance with the terms of the agreement it had with Ms F. 
Fourth submission
Ive considered the issue of the timing of Ms Fs complaint very carefully. I acknowledge the 
point Central FX is making, namely that if she wanted the payment to be made only after 
receiving the contract, she knew enough to make that complaint as soon as she received 
confirmation that the payment had been made but shed not yet received the contract. 
But in my view, Central FXs argument that this means Ms F cannot now have a complaint 
about that payment is not fair. 
At the time of the payment:
Ms F had spoken to a broker from Central FX who had reassured her as to the 
nature and extent of the relationship between Bar Works and Central FX. 
She knew that Bar Works also had an account with Central FX. 
She knew she was dealing with a regulated firm, and was aware that under its terms 
it would not make a payment that she had not authorized it to make. 
Ms F was not aware of which Bar Works entity she needed to make her payment to 
nor did she have any relevant account details for that payment. 
In her own submissions, Ms F herself has said that she found the process of making the 
investment confusing  although she expected to receive a copy of the contract before the 
transfer was made, as thats what shed agreed, she was also aware that Central FX was 
managing Bar Workss account as well. I think this is relevant, because in my view, despite 
the transfer not having gone ahead in the way she anticipated, Central FXs involvement 
reassured Ms F. I dont agree that this means she later could not complain about this 
transaction.
In addition, and I said in my provisional decision, I think the location of where the payment 
was remitted to is highly relevant  because the Bahamas was not a destination that was 
directly relevant to the investment, mentioned in any of the Bar Works brochures, nor raised 
with Ms F by Central FX, for example in her initial call with the broker. 
The initial onward payment instruction form which Central FX had pre-populated for Ms F to 
fill in (and which I understand she never did), specified the USA as a destination country. 
Central FX has not explained why this is, nor why it ended up transferring the money to a 
different country altogether, other than saying this where Bar Works told it to send such 
payments. 
The payment confirmation email which Ms F received did not tell her that this was where the 
money had been sent  but merely confirmed that it had been sent to Bar Works Services 
Inc. 
Fifth submission
Ive considered this submission, but in my view Central FX makes two important errors. 
Firstly, I did not make any references to SYSC in my provisional decision. Secondly, the 
Payment Services Regulations, overall, did not apply to this transaction  and this is a point that Central FX itself agreed with very early on in this complaint. The transaction thats been 
disputed here is Central FXs payment in USD to an account in the Bahamas, in other words 
outside the EEA. Im therefore not clear why it has made numerous references to the 
regulations and how they would have applied. And whilst Ive read the report that was 
provided, I dont agree it would be reasonable, or relevant, to debate the applicability of 
various regulations, when overall those regulations did not apply. So I make no further 
finding or comment on these regulations  and as a result, Im not persuaded by the 
conclusions the report has reached nor that they are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
In relation to the rest of Central FXs point under this heading, I dont agree that I placed an 
inappropriate level of reliance on the fact that Bar Works was also a client of Central FX. In 
my view its highly relevant given the context, which is that Central FX did not obtain specific 
instructions from Ms F about where to make her payment to, and instead obtained these 
details from another of its clients (and the intended beneficiary), Bar Works. 
And in my view its also relevant precisely because of Central FXs duty [as a] payment 
services provider to carry out the customers transaction irrespective of the underlying 
obligations between payer and payee. It was for Central FX to satisfy itself, given the terms 
of the account, that it had the appropriate authority and instructions from Ms F before making 
her payment. In this case, the facts are clear that Ms F was unaware of precisely where the 
payment was being made. She could not have provided the appropriate instructions under 
the terms, because she did not have the beneficiarys details. Central FX obtained those 
details from Bar Works, unbeknown to Ms F, and gave effect to its instructions without 
verifying this with Ms F. 
Sixth submission
It isnt in dispute that Central FX successfully remitted Ms Fs payment to Bar Works, which 
in turn meant that Ms Fs money was subsumed within the ponzi scheme and her investment 
was lost. And given that Central FX acted on Bar Works instructions about where Ms Fs 
money should be sent, Im not surprised that this meant Ms F successfully invested in Bar 
Works. 
However, its clear to me that under the terms of the account, Ms F couldnt simply ask 
Central FX to make a payment to a generic entity on her behalf as it has said  and most 
important, I dont see how Central FX could make a payment on Ms Fs behalf to a generic 
entity. 
The payment needed to be made to a specific firm, to a specific account, in a specific 
country. These are the details which the onward payment instruction form was designed to 
elicit from Ms F  and Ms F never provided these details to Central FX at the time. 
The fact remains that Bar Works was not a bona fide investment opportunity, it was ponzi 
style fraud. Therefore, the fact that having sent Ms Fs money to an account in the Bahamas, 
Ms F received a contract from the fraud, doesnt absolve Central FX of its responsibility for 
having facilitated this payment to a fraudster, on instruction from the fraudster themself. 
And this is the key element of the context surrounding this payment which Central FX has 
not addressed. Its terms are clear about the level of detail and instruction it requires from 
clients in order to make the payment on their behalf. But in Ms Fs case, it did not follow its 
terms and it did not follow this process. What it shouldve done is advise Ms F about where it 
had been told her payment needed to be made to, and ensure Ms F agreed. Seventh submission
On the issue of causation, however, Ive reconsidered what wouldve happened had Central 
FX acted fair and reasonably. I acknowledge this will come as a disappointment to Ms F, but 
Ive reviewed all the evidence available to me, including her conversation with the broker 
from Central FX and her behaviour after the payment had been made, in light of Central FXs 
submissions. Having done so, Im not currently persuaded on balance that Ms F wouldve 
changed her mind about the investment, even if Central FX had done what I think it 
shouldve done, which is confirm with her where the money needed to be remitted. 
As Ive said in my original provisional decision, and in this one, Central FX did not bear any 
responsibility for Ms F succumbing to the Bar Works fraud  I have accepted that it had no 
involvement with the scheme itself, and it explained how the arrangement it had came about. 
I continue to have concerns around how the payment was made, and I have explained my 
findings in relation to that above. 
But the issue for me is deciding, on the balance of probabilities, what Ms F would have done 
had Central FX reverted to her after she had instructed it to make the payment. As I have 
already explained, my aim in putting things right is to put Ms F back in the position she 
wouldve been in but for Central FXs error  in this case, I believe Central FXs error was the 
fact that it didnt tell Ms F where her money was going to be remitted to before the 
transaction was completed. Ive concluded this because in my view, Ms F had not provided a 
specific instruction  the lack of any onward payment instruction or beneficiary details is 
evidence of that. 
However, Im also satisfied that by this point Ms F was already keen on investing. Its clear to 
me that she had multiple conversations with the Swedish agent that appeared to be acting 
for Bar Works, and she was obviously convinced that this was a bona fide investment that 
she wanted. Furthermore, whilst Ive acknowledged and taken into account the fact that Ms 
F was wary of her payment being made before she received the contract, I have also 
reconsidered her behaviour once she found out the payment was made. At this point, she 
had not received the contract, despite her clear instruction to Central FX. And yet she did not 
raise any concerns with Central FX, nor did she indicate any sort of apprehension about her 
investment. And as Ive mentioned above, the affiliation which she was told existed 
between Central FX and Bar Works wouldve reassured her at the time. 
In my view, when reconsidering the likelihood of what Ms F wouldve done had Central FX 
acted fairly and reasonably, Im no longer persuaded that I can conclude, on balance, that 
Ms F wouldve chosen to pull out of the investment entirely purely because her money was 
going to be remitted to a Bar Works account in the Bahamas. And this is the only way that 
Ms F wouldve avoided losing her money to the fraud. Furthermore, I think that Central FX 
wouldve explained to her that Bar Works itself had instructed Central FX to make these 
payments to this account in the Bahamas  and I think this would likely have reassured Ms F 
about the investment rather than put her off.
 
Im provisionally concluding this because the evidence available shows that Ms F had 
already been convinced by Bar Works about its investment proposition by the time she 
approached Central FX. 
And the only way that Ms F couldve been prevented from losing her money to the fraud was 
if Central FX had been able to warn her against making the investment  but this isnt 
something it was required to do, and Ive seen insufficient evidence that it had any reason to 
at the time. I accept that the mere presence of an account in the Bahamas would not of itself 
have indicated that Bar Works was a fraudulent firm or that there was anything untoward 
with the investment it was offering. So all Central FX needed to do, in my view, was ensure that it checked with Ms F that she was happy for her money to be remitted to the account it 
had been told by Bar Works to send her money to. Given everything Ive said, Im of the view 
that its more likely than not that she wouldve agreed to the transfer regardless. 
As a result, Ms Fs money would, on the balance of probabilities, still have been remitted to 
Bar Works  and therefore, it would still have been lost to the fraud. 
Central FX agreed with my second provisional decision and didnt provide any further 
comments. Ms F didnt agree. In summary she said:
She didnt understand how I could have found so in favour of her and highlighted 
such egregious wrongs in the way that Central FX remitted the payment, and yet 
concluded that Ms F wouldve invested anyway, thereby not awarding compensation. 
Ms F and others decided to invest entirely due to the efforts of and comfort provided 
by Central FX in its capacity as an authorised FCA firm. 
She said that it was relevant that she was introduced to Bar Works as an investment 
in late 2015, but did not choose to invest until she met with someone from Central FX 
in August 2016. 
She said that Bar Works wasnt just one investment  it was a series of different 
opportunities. She said that it was only when she was reassured in August 2016 by 
Central FX that this was a safe investment that she decided to go ahead with it. She 
said that she was aware of other investments offered by Bar Works, but did not 
invest until she was prompted to by Central FX. 
Ms F said she opened an account with Central FX in July 2016 because she had met 
them in the spring. At the time she explained that she was opening the account 
because she wanted to invest in property in the UK  there was no mention of 
investing outside the UK or investing in Bar Works. 
The involvement of Central FX in the brochure she received in the summer of 2016 
gave her the reassurance she was looking for. She said that as she was already a 
client, and she could see that Central FX was involved with Bar Works, she was 
reassured that Bar Works was a bona fide investment. 
She said she wasnt aware that the account Bar Works had with Central FX was Bar 
Works London rather than Bar Works Inc. And she referred to a court judgment 
which she said proved that it was more likely than not that Central FX had not done 
appropriate due diligence on Bar Works London when it opened its account with it. 
She said the evidence showed that Central FX was receiving instructions directly 
from the fraudster. 
She said that Central FX hadnt been open and honest with the service. She said that 
if shed been made aware that the account Bar Works had with Central FX was not in 
the name of Bar Works Inc, but instead Bar Works London, she would have asked 
what Bar Works London had to do with her investment. She said that it wouldve 
been clear then that Bar Works London had nothing to do with her investment. 
Ms F said that Central FX was incorrect when it said it only ever provided currency 
exchange services, because it also took USD from one of the Bar Works entities and 
remitted to investors who had never even used Central FX before. She said there 
were investors based in the USA who received USD from Central FX and wondered 
why a UK company was suddenly paying their rentals. She said Central FX had input into the Bar Works marketing materials, and she said 
that it could see that Bar Works London had no role in any of the investments. 
Furthermore, Central FX was in contact with Bar Works in the USA  for example 
when it noticed that SEK/USD CFX account details were not on the website or in the 
latest brochure so [it] provided them.
Ms F said that shed not been persuaded to invest by Bar Works in 2015 and waited 
for further reassurances which she got from the involvement of Central FX in the 
brochure and on Bar Works website. 
She reiterated that she only considered investing when she saw the involvement of 
Central FX in Bar Works latest brochure, and because it had its own page on the Bar 
Works website. She said that if shed known the account was not in the name of Bar 
Works Inc, but a different company, she would have made enquiries at the time. 
She made detailed comments about some of the directors involved in Bar Works 
(London) Ltd. She queried what level of due diligence Central FX carried out, and 
who they met when they opened the Bar Works account. She also queried how the 
arrangement between Central FX came about, and whether this could indicate any 
involvement by Central FX in the fraud. She referred to some of the evidence and 
witness statements coming out from the various court cases and queried how Central 
FX did not initially pick up on the fraud. She also queried whether Central FX 
agreeing to manage rental payments in January 2017 was an attempt to keep the 
fraud going. She asked what Bar Works USA/UK Ltd was telling Central FX at the 
time about the source of the funds it was paying into the account.
She asked why BWL was opening the account rather than Bar Works Inc ("BWI"). 
She asked whether BWL could explain this. 
She asked what Central FX understood the relationship between BWL and BWI to be 
and whether there any documentation provided to confirm that. 
She queried what Central FX understood the relationship between BWL and Bar 
Works Services Inc ("BWS") in the Bahamas to be, and queried the payment to 
BWS. She also asked several questions around what Central FX understood the 
various legal structures to be. She said that if Central FX had done due diligence on 
BWS it wouldve uncovered the fraud and none of the investors would have lost their 
money. She queried how much money was actually paid out of the BWL account, 
and she felt that the service ought to be asking that question. 
She asked who the individual was that introduced Central FX to Bar Works. And she 
also queried why Bar Works wouldnt use a currency exchange firm based in the 
USA, given that all the business was being undertaken there. She asked why this 
didnt raise a red flag and cause Central FX to question the money trail. 
She said that whilst Central FX refer to Bar Works as one investment, in reality there 
were multiple companies and investments. She said that Central FX ought to have 
conducted due diligence on all companies which formed part of the Bar Works fraud. 
She said that Central FX acknowledged that in 2016 she was only interested in 
investing in property in the UK, and had not mentioned the Bar Works investment at 
the time. Ms F explained that this was because she had moved on from considering 
the Bar Works investment. 
She said that Central FX didnt disclose that it had signed up Bar Works USA as a client and had begun to accept funds from it which it then distributed to a list of 
investors  these were described as rental payments. Ms F said that Bar Works 
USA was not involved in any of the sites and had no means of generating an income 
 so she had concerns that Central FX was involved in the fraud. She said that her 
understanding was at the time US banks had begun freezing accounts. She asked 
what due diligence Central FX did on Bar Works USA when it was signed up as client 
in January 2017  she said that any due diligence wouldve uncovered red flags. 
Ms F also said that Central FX didnt disclose, in response to the provisional 
decision, that some of the rental payments did not involve any foreign exchange 
transactions at all. She said that it was allowing the account to be used as pass 
through for USD payments back to US investors. Ms F said that this was surely a 
breach of its regulatory permissions. She said she was also the beneficiary of some 
of these payments, which reassured her that all was okay, even though in reality 
these payments were merely buying time for Bar Works to conceal the fraud. 
She said that she relied on Central FX telling her that it was in affiliation with Bar 
Works, and this gave her the impression that the investment was trustworthy. 
Ms F maintained there were enough questionable behaviours to say that Central FX 
ought to have known that the Bar Works scheme was fraudulent.
Ms F said that she wasnt aware that BWL had an account with Central FX  and had 
she been made aware of that, she wouldve made further enquiries. She said that it 
was unlikely shed have been given a plausible explanation about who owned the 
account or how it was linked to the investment she thought she was making. 
Therefore, she would not have made the investment. 
She had no intention at the time of transferring her money to the Bahamas and would 
never have gone ahead with the transfer if that had been made clear to her. 
She was a cautious investor, and had previously declined other offers from Bar 
Works precisely because of the lack of credible partners and a track record. 
She reiterated that she had opened her account with Central FX in July 2016 for the 
purpose of investing in UK property, and did not mention investments in other 
countries. She had moved on from her interest in Bar Works in 2015. 
The only reason she decided to invest in the new proposition from Bar Works was 
because she saw the involvement of Central FX  and was further reassured when 
she was told there was an affiliation between the two. 
Ms F said the evidence showed she was a cautious investor and had wanted to 
receive a copy of the investment contract before proceeding  and she never 
consented to her money going overseas in part or at all. 
Given the above, Ms F said that she would never have gone ahead with the investment had 
she been fully aware of the situation  and would therefore not have lost her money. 
And she said that furthermore, if it hadnt been for the involvement of Central FX, she would 
not have invested, nor would any other investor  such is the deep involvement and 
entwining of the parties. 
She therefore asked that I review my provisional conclusions and find in her favour. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F and her representative have provided very detailed and comprehensive comments 
about why they believe Ms F is entitled to compensation. Ive considered those comments 
carefully, and whilst Ive only summarised the detail above, I can confirm Ive read all of the 
submissions in response to my provisional decision and throughout our investigation. 
However, I hope Ms F and her representative dont take it as a discourtesy that I wont be 
addressing every point they have made. The purpose of this final decision isnt to do that, its 
to explain my thoughts on the key aspects of this complaint. 
Insofar as my provisional conclusions relate to how Central FX remitted the payment to Bar 
Works Services Inc on her behalf, I see no reason to change my conclusions and I can 
confirm them as final. I agree with Ms F that the payment was not made in line with her 
instructions  and I also agree that Central FX ought to have been much clearer with her 
about its arrangement with Bar Works and where her investment was going to be made. 
Ms F has, however, invited me to consider a great number of matters which I dont agree it is 
my remit to consider or make findings on  many of her comments relate to investigations of 
fraud, evidence given by individuals in various criminal trials, and mostly relate to regulatory 
issues which she would be best placed to refer to the Financial Conduct Authority. For the 
avoidance of doubt, for the reasons I gave in both provisional decisions, Im not persuaded 
theres sufficient evidence to conclude in this case that Central FX was aware, at the time 
Ms F made her investment, that Bar Works was a fraudulent investment opportunity. 
So the question Ive sought to address in this decision is in what way Ms F couldve avoided 
losing money to the Bar Works fraud, when by the time the payment was made by Central 
FX, she had already been persuaded that this was an investment she wanted to make. 
In reaching my determination on this issue, Ive taken into account a number of factors that I 
think are relevant when trying to establish the central question  what wouldve happened if 
Central FX had told Ms F that her payment would be remitted to Bar Works Services Inc?
In approaching this question, Ive first kept in mind the specific arrangement which Ms F had 
with Central FX at the time. Central FX wasnt selling the investment to her or promoting it. 
Im satisfied it didnt advise Ms F to invest in it. The evidence Ive seen shows that the 
service it was agreeing to provide to Ms F was to convert her local currency into USD. And, 
once that conversion had taken place, to remit the payment to a beneficiary of her choosing. 
Whilst Ive said above that in my opinion Central FX ought to have clarified with Ms F where 
her payment was going to be sent to, its clear to me that Ms F wanted to invest in Bar 
Works. This is what she said in her phone call, and Im persuaded that this was essentially 
the only reason why she was using Central FX at that moment in time  to convert her local 
currency in USD in order to then subscribe to the investment which Bar Works was selling.
I appreciate that Central FXs involvement in converting Ms Fs currency and remitting it on 
her behalf gave Ms F a sense of assurance. But it never held itself out as agreeing to do 
anything other than convert her currency and remit the payment to a beneficiary she chose. 
It never said that it would ensure the investment she wanted to make was a real one, nor did 
it make any promise, warranty or guarantee that it would check the beneficiary Ms F wanted 
her money to be sent to. I dont agree that at the time, given the specific circumstances of this case, Central FX had an obligation to do any due diligence on the beneficiary Ms F 
chose  other than, as Ive said in my provisional decision, ensure Ms F knew where her 
money was being remitted to. 
At most, Central FX ought to have told Ms F that in order to give effect to her desire to invest 
in Bar Works, her payment would need to be made to Bar Works Services Inc to an account 
located in the Bahamas. But Im not persuaded Central FX had sufficient information at the 
time to have warned Ms F that the investment or beneficiary was potentially fraudulent or 
otherwise not genuine. In my view, given the evidence available, it is only with the benefit of 
hindsight that it is possible to see some of the warning signs that the investment may not 
have been what it seemed on the surface  and it clearly wouldnt be fair to take hindsight 
into account. 
And this is the key issue in this case. In order to conclude that it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Central FX to compensate Ms F for the money she lost to the fraud, I 
need to be satisfied on balance that if Central FX had done what I think it shouldve done, it 
wouldve avoided the losses Ms F incurred. 
But in deciding this issue, Im bound to weigh up what I know about Ms F at the time and 
other decisions she had made. For example, Ms F has been candid about Central FXs 
involvement and how it reassured her when making her investment. This would still have 
been the case if Central FX had told her where her money needed to be sent and asked for 
her confirmation. Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that at the time she 
wouldve had reason to question what she was being told.
Furthermore, Ms F was clearly happy to send such a significant some of money to Central 
FX without in fact knowing where it would be sent. In essence, she knew that she did not 
have the required details and relied on Central FX knowing where that money would be sent 
to in order to give effect to her instruction to subscribe to the investment Bar Works was 
selling. In my view this goes against her submission that had she been told about Bar Works 
Services Inc and its account in the Bahamas she wouldve chosen not to go ahead. She 
wouldve had no reason to question what Central FX told her about where the money was 
going  and she had already agreed to trust it to know where her investment would be made. 
In addition, at the point at which she sent Central FX the money for the investment shed not 
received a contract from Bar Works. Shed had discussions with a Bar Works representative 
in her country of domicile  but shed not signed any legal documents and, as Ive said 
above, was not even aware of precisely where that money would be sent. 
Yet when the payment was made on her behalf, without having provided any beneficiary 
details, she did not immediately indicate that she was concerned  she did not for example 
contact Central FX to query exactly where the money was sent. 
To my mind this shows that whilst this was information she clearly shouldve been given 
before her payment was made, it would not have made any difference to her decision to go 
ahead with her investment. 
And I say this because Im satisfied that information alone, without any warning or other red 
flag, would not have been enough to convince Ms F that anything untoward would happen 
to her money.
Im further persuaded that this wouldve been the case by the fact that Ms F did have one 
very specific requirement which she asked Central FX to comply with  she specifically asked it not to remit her payment until shed received a contract from Bar Works. And yet 
when the payment was made before that happened, she again did not raise any concerns. 
She did not display any sort of unease or unhappiness at this happening. In my view the lack 
of concern around this shows that Ms F was already persuaded to invest in Bar Works. The 
information she had received about it as an investment, the conversations she had 
previously and the involvement of Central FX in the currency conversion had already 
convinced her that this investment was real. This is why she did not have any immediate 
concerns about the payment being made to a beneficiary she hadnt provided, or before 
shed received a copy of the contract. 
This means that even if Central FX had essentially confirmed with her that the money would 
be sent to this particular account in Bar Works Services Incs name in the Bahamas, Im not 
persuaded its likely that she wouldve seen anything untoward with it. Im not persuaded, on 
balance, that this wouldve been enough to make her decide she no longer wanted to invest. 
And, as Ive said, this is the only way in which she couldve avoided the fraud. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Ms F would only have decided to withdraw 
from her investment if she had been warned by Central FX about the Bar Works investment. 
But for the reasons Ive already set out above, and in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded Central FX had sufficient evidence or information at the time for me to have 
required it to have done so. 
For these reasons, I dont agree it would be fair to ask Central FX to refund Ms Fs losses  
because I dont agree I can conclude, with reference to what is fair and reasonable, that 
Central FXs actions caused Ms F to lose her money to the Bar Works fraud. In my view, 
Ms Fs losses were unfortunately caused by the fact that she had been persuaded to invest 
in the first place. As such, Im sorry to say that I remain of the view that this complaint should 
not be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman