DRN-2878116
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the exchange rate used by Barclays Bank UK PLC when they 
received a payment into their current account. Mr and Mrs M also complain that they were 
unable to speak with Barclays to find out about the exchange rates used.
 
What happened
In July 2020 Barclays received a payment in euros to be credited to Mr and Mrs Ms current 
account. Barclays used its inbound exchange rate applicable on the date it received the 
payment, which included a margin, and credited Mr and Mrs Ms bank account. 
Mr and Mrs M have explained that the amount of sterling they received was substantially 
lower than they had expected so tried to contact Barclays to find out what had happened. 
Despite making numerous calls and attempting to raise their concerns online, the rate used 
wasnt explained. Mr and Mrs M have explained, at one point, they were told to visit their 
branch to find out what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs M complained but Barclays didnt agree the wrong exchange rate had been 
used. But Barclays did agree Mr and Mrs M had received poor service when they tried to 
make contact after the payment was received. Barclays offered Mr and Mrs M £200 and 
apologised. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr and Mrs 
M asked to appeal and said they had been unable to speak with Barclays before the 
payment was sent. They also said there were time constraints involved with the payment 
they received and security concerns which led them to proceed via Barclays. Mr and Mrs M 
didnt agree Barclays offer was fair. As Mr and Mrs M asked to appeal, their complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have told us the funds they received came from the sale of a property abroad. 
Mr and Mrs M have also told us they arent financial experts and were unaware of the rate 
Barclays would use when converting their funds. 
Mr and Mrs M have pointed out that the interbank exchange rate on the day the payment 
was received by Barclays was 1.096 euros to the pound (Bank of England data says it was 
1.100). Barclays has explained it uses the market exchange rate and adds a margin when 
converting currency. In this case, Barclays used an exchange rate of 1.139 euros to the 
pound and says thats the correct rate for inbound euro conversions on the date in question. 
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs M feel the rate used wasnt as competitive as others 
available from different businesses, Im not persuaded Barclays made an error. Barclays is 
free to set its conversion rate in line with its commercial judgement. I think its reasonable to 
say that most businesses carrying out a currency conversion will either apply a margin to the 
rates used, a fee or both. Each business can set the rates its willing to offer. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us they werent able to speak with Barclays before the payment was 
sent and that calls werent answered. Barclays has explained, due to limitations caused by 
the pandemic, calls were taking a lot longer to answer at this time. But Barclays did have an 
open phone line and, whilst I understand it wouldve meant waiting to speak with someone, 
Im satisfied there was telephone support available. 
Ive also looked at the account terms and conditions. They say, if Barclays receives a 
payment in euros, it will convert it to sterling using a reference exchange rate plus its margin. 
Im satisfied thats what Barclays did in this case. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I 
havent been persuaded Barclays made an error or treated them unfairly when it received 
their payment in euros and converted it to sterling. 
Ive looked at the communications Mr and Mrs M had with Barclays after the payment was 
received and converted. I agree that Mr and Mrs M were given poor service. Mr M was 
referred to his local branch but when he visited was told an appointment was required. As far 
as I can see, it was only when Barclays responded to their complaint that the exchange rate 
it used and the process involved was explained. 
Barclays has offered Mr and Mrs M £200 and apologised for the delay and service provided. 
In my view, that figure fairly reflects the impact of the way Mr and Mrs Ms enquiries were 
handled and the service they received. As Im satisfied the settlement offered is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint, Im not telling Barclays to increase the award or 
take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays Bank UK PLC has made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman