DRN-3668414
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how a home insurance policy was sold to her by Sainsburys Bank 
Plc (Sainsburys).
Mrs M is represented by Ms D, so for ease Ill refer to Ms D.
What happened
Mrs Ms home sustained storm damage. Ms D contacted the insurer to make a claim, but it 
was declined because of an exclusion in the cover. 
Ms D complained to Sainsburys about how the policy was taken out. She said it wasnt clear 
that there was an endorsement excluding damage covered by a storm. Sainsburys sent Ms 
D a final response letter, in which it said it had provided policy documents which clearly set 
out the endorsements that applied to the cover. It said it provided the policy documents to an 
online portal as was Ms Ds request. 
Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Ms D referred her complaint to this service. It was 
considered by an investigator who didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly. As Ms D didnt 
agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms D has raised a separate concern about how the claim was declined. My 
decision here focuses on whether or not I think Sainsburys has acted fairly in how it provided 
the documents to Ms D.
This policy was taken out online in January 2021. Ive considered the information provided to 
Ms D when the policy was taken out. The policy schedule says:
SB07  RESTRICTION OF COVER  BUILDINGS
Section A Buildings
Cover is restricted to fire, smoke, explosion lighting or earthquake only.
Ms D says she considers these endorsements should have been highlighted in the policy 
schedule, by way of an indicator or similar. However, Im satisfied the policy schedule was 
clear in setting out this policy didnt provide cover for damage caused to the property by 
storm. 
Its not in dispute it was taken out online, but the issue here is whether Sainsburys offered 
advice to Ms D during the application process. In her complaint form, Ms D said when she 
took the policy out online, she answered a question about the occupancy of the property. Ive 
also considered the below wording which was included in the welcome pack issued in early 
January 2021. It says:
You wont receive advice or a recommendation from us. You are responsible for 
deciding whether the policy meets your particular needs and demands
Its clear in the policy schedule it was for Ms D to decide whether to take out the policy, and 
if the policy provided the level of cover she required. It seems from the above statement, 
along with what Ms D initially told us about how the policy was taken out, Sainsburys did not 
offer advice about the suitability of the policy. On this basis, and the finding Ive made that 
the information contained in the policy schedule was clear, Im not going to require 
Sainsburys take any action to put things right as Ms D asked. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman