DRN-2782775
The complaint
Mr H complains that the value of his pension savings transferred to another provider by 
St James's Place UK plc (SJP) was lower than it should have been. He says that delays in 
completing the disinvestment process meant that SJP actually received a higher value for 
his pension savings from the disinvestment than it transferred to the new provider. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint in February 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what SJP needed to do to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of my provisional decision, but for 
completeness I include an extract from that decision below. I said;
Mr H held pension savings that were invested with SJP. In July 2019 Mr H informed 
SJP that he wished to transfer his pension savings to another provider. Mr H was 
resident overseas so it took some time before SJP held sufficient documentation 
from Mr H to allow the transfer to proceed. SJP says that it finally received all the 
necessary documentation on 28 August 2019. That is the effective date that it is 
using for when it considers to have received the instruction to make the transfer.
SJP says that the terms and conditions of its pension plan state that the value 
applied to any transfer out will be taken as the day following receipt of the transfer 
instruction. So Mr Hs pension savings being transferred were valued as at 
29 August. But the transfer itself didnt take place until 10 September 2019. Mr H 
says his online reporting showed that his pension savings were still invested until the 
day before the funds were transferred. And he says that in the period between 
29 August and 9 September those pension savings had increased in value by 
approximately £10,000.
Mr H asked SJP to pay the increased value of his pension savings. SJP didnt think 
that it should  it said that its terms and conditions clearly showed that the transferred 
value had been calculated correctly as the value at the day after the instruction had 
been received. So it didnt think it needed to pay anything further.
I think some of the basic facts about this complaint are not in dispute. There was 
some time before SJP considers it was in a position to implement Mr Hs transfer 
request. But it doesnt seem to me that Mr H considers that delay to have been 
unfair, or that his transfer should have been accepted earlier than 28 August. And 
both parties agree that the transfer of the funds to Mr Hs new pension provider didnt 
happen until 10 September, with the funds being received by the new provider three 
days later. Whilst I dont think the delay in completing the transfer is excessive, or out 
of line with what might be expected, I do need to consider its impact.
I accept that the relevant terms and conditions say that the value of the transferred 
funds will be set at the date the instruction was received. But I think there is more to 
consider here. It appears that SJP didnt disinvest Mr Hs pension savings until 
almost two weeks later, and a higher value was received for those investments than 
has been paid to Mr H on the basis of the earlier unit prices. That means, as far as 
I can tell, that SJP has profited from the delay.
For me to agree with such a process would effectively be enabling businesses to 
delay making a transfer on the basis that they could then potentially profit by offering 
the lower payment due at the earlier date, but capitalising on a higher payment 
received for when investments are sold at the later date. My view is that this could 
result in particularly poor consumer outcomes and is something in which I think the 
regulator might take a keen interest.
Therefore, whilst I dont think there is any suggestion that SJP has acted dishonestly 
here, I do think it should simply pay to Mr H the sum that was realised when his 
pension savings were disinvested at the later date. I accept that means Mr H will 
have profited from the delay, but not at SJPs expense. Hed simply be receiving the 
value which was actually gained from the disinvestment of his pension savings. But 
SJP shouldnt profit from the time it took to complete the transfer. To do so would 
create the type of moral hazard Ive outlined above.
I think this solution is fair here. I dont think it is reasonable for SJP to expect Mr H to 
be out of the market for an extended period of time whilst its back-office processes 
catch up. If SJP wanted to set 29 August as the effective date for the transfer, that is 
when it should have been completed. And so that would have allowed Mr H to 
potentially benefit from any market uplift when his pension savings were with the new 
provider. Or, if SJP was unable to process the transfer in such a timely manner, Mr H 
should have been allowed to continue to benefit from any market growth until the 
time SJP was able to make the transfer.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr H and SJP have said that they accept my provisional findings. 
And Mr H has provided me with some further information (that I have shared with SJP) about 
his financial situation and its impact on the taxation of the compensation I think should be 
paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since both parties have indicated that they accept my provisional findings I see no reason to 
deviate from those conclusions. I have taken account of the comments that Mr H provided 
about his taxation situation in the redress that I am directing below.
So I conclude that this complaint should be upheld and SJP needs to pay Mr H some 
compensation. 
Putting things right
SJP should compare the transfer value it calculated for Mr Hs pension savings based on the 
effective date of 29 August 2019, and the actual value that was realised when the pension 
investments were ultimately sold. It appears the actual value will be found to be higher than 
the transferred value so Mr H has suffered a loss and should be paid compensation.To put things right SJP should;
Pay Mr H the difference between the realised value, and the transferred value.
If necessary, add interest to that difference calculated as the overall return achieved 
by Mr Hs transferred pension savings from the date they were received by the new 
provider to the date of settlement.
The compensation should be paid into Mr Hs pension plan with the new provider. The 
amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If SJP is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Hs pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be modified to notionally allow for any income tax 
that becomes due or that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. But given that Mr H is resident overseas his taxation 
situation in receiving this compensation payment might differ markedly from that of a UK 
resident. So SJP should liaise with Mr H to ensure that any payment he receives now, 
sufficiently accounts for any taxation that is immediately due on that payment and the 
taxation he might expect to pay at his selected retirement age. It might be necessary for SJP 
to pay a higher amount of compensation to Mr H should he incur any taxation losses. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Mr Hs complaint and direct St James's Place UK plc to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman