DRN-1572979
 
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), managed by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL). He says HL prevented him, 
without a logical reason, from making a lump sum contribution from his company into the 
SIPP before the end of his companys financial year on 30 June 2019. He also says HL 
offered an alternative  to invest the lump sum in a new and self-managed SIPP  but did 
not respond further on this or respond to explain why he could not contribute to the managed 
SIPP, as it promised to.
What happened
The managed SIPP was reviewed by HL earlier in 2019 and Mr G was advised to make the 
lump sum contribution in order to use allowances carried forward. He called HL around the 
middle of June 2019 and said he had delayed in doing this and wished to do so at the time  
and before the financial year end deadline (on 30 June). 
He was told that the contribution could not be made due to the problems with the Woodford 
Equity Income Fund (WEIF)  its suspension  but he questioned why this was the case 
given that monthly contributions into the same SIPP continued to be accepted. HL told him 
the monthly contributions were being invested in a portfolio that did not include WEIF. Mr G 
repeated a similar question in this respect  that is, his lump sum could be accepted and 
invested in the same way, so why was it being declined?
HL suggested to Mr G the alternative of using a new, self-managed SIPP. Mr G queried this 
with another HL department (its Helpdesk), where his questioning of the decision to decline 
the lump sum contribution to the managed SIPP was shared. This department suggested the 
contribution (into the managed SIPP) should be possible, promised to look further into this 
(and, it appears, into the alternative) and to return to him with a response within 48 hours. 
HL did not return to him, the financial year end deadline passed and he complained to HL on 
5 July.
HLs position, in the main, is as follows:
It has apologised to Mr G for the conflicting information he received with regards to 
contributing the lump sum into the managed SIPP and it explained that the Helpdesk 
should have known (and explained to Mr G) about the suspension of contributions 
into the managed SIPP. To compensate for the lack of clarity in its engagement with 
him at the time, HL has offered £250. It has also apologised for not returning to him 
as promised.
Despite its apologies, it remains the case that Mr G had the time and opportunity to 
chase for a response, to contact HL and to achieve the lump sum contribution he 
sought to make (into an alternative SIPP) before 30 June. As such, HL cannot fairly 
be held responsible for him missing this deadline.
Following the suspension of WEIF its Investment Director took the decision to 
continue taking monthly contributions into the managed SIPP but not to do the same with lump sum contributions as they were viewed differently. The former had already 
been assessed and recommended as suitable, whereas the latter  being the 
proposal of a fresh lump sum contribution  had not been reviewed/assessed as 
suitable. In this context, the decision was well reasoned, even if Mr G disagrees with 
it.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, agreed with HLs position and concluded 
that it should not be upheld. Mr G disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HL concedes that Mr G was given conflicting information when he called in June 2019. In 
this respect and, it appears, in relation to its failure to respond further to him after the call it 
has offered £250. I agree that the conflicting information he was given and the failure to 
respond further to him amounted to a level of service that was less than he was entitled to. 
In this respect, I also agree that £250 is a fair amount to compensate for the trouble and 
upset this caused him.
However, the two matters of HLs rationale for rejecting the lump sum contribution into the 
managed SIPP and liability for Mr G missing the 30 June deadline should be considered on 
their own merit. HLs concession of a service deficiency does not automatically establish 
these two matters in Mr Gs favour.
Mr Gs arguments, questioning HLs rationale for rejecting the lump sum contribution into the 
managed SIPP, are sensible and I can understand the strength of feeling with which he has 
pursued them. In his specific case, it is indeed inadequate to say lump sum contributions 
were differentiated from regular monthly contributions because the latter had been assessed 
as suitable. As he has pointed out, his pursuit to make the lump sum contribution arose 
directly from a review recommendation by HL to do so. This is not disputed, so the lump sum 
contribution had also been assessed as suitable for the managed SIPP.
However, the investigator put this point to HL and I am satisfied with its response. It 
explained that the recommendation to make the lump sum contribution was given to Mr G 
around March 2019. Circumstances were different then, and in particular the WEIF 
suspension did not happen until early June 2019. HL says that by the time Mr G sought to 
implement the recommendation in the middle of June, and with the impact of the WEIF being 
relevant at the time, he was trying to do so in circumstances different to those in which the 
recommendation was made.
I find logic in the above explanation. It is arguable that HL was duty bound not to facilitate 
implementation of an outdated recommendation in the knowledge that an important change 
in circumstances had occurred. I do not suggest that this was HLs precise rationale and it 
will be understandable if Mr G were to argue that HL was not sure of its rationale at the time 
he called  given the conflicting messages he received. However, on balance and at policy 
level, I am persuaded that this was broadly HLs line of thinking in diverting the ongoing 
monthly contributions away from WEIF related portfolios and suspending any new lump sum 
contributions into the managed SIPP. Mr G could also argue that the same diversion could 
have been applied to his lump sum, but I am not satisfied that this could have suitably been 
done in the context of an outdated recommendation.
Mr G is entitled to disagree with the above rationale but I do not consider it to be 
unreasonable.HLs concession of the flaw in its service to Mr G does not automatically mean it was/is 
responsible for the deadline of 30 June being missed. Mr G was informed about the 
alternative option of contributing into a new SIPP. HL should have returned to him within 48 
hours as promised. It failed to do so, but that did not prevent him from proactively pursuing 
the matter during and/or after those 48 hours  given the importance, to him, of making the 
contribution before the deadline. 
I do not suggest that it was for him to monitor HL to do what it was supposed to do  in terms 
of responding to him  but I do consider that it was for him to retain primary responsibility to 
achieve the contribution he sought to make. In terms of him not hearing from HL during and 
after the 48 hours it was arguably also for him to mitigate the matter by chasing for a 
response. He was aware that there was an alternative way to make the contribution and he 
could have pursued that separately (and distinct from his challenge against HLs decision on 
the managed SIPP). Overall and on balance, it cannot fairly be concluded that HL is to 
blame for the deadline being missed. Mr G does not appear to have proactively pursued this 
alternative or mitigated the matter.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman