DRN-4365188
The complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
Although the policy is in joint names for ease Ill refer to Mr C throughout this decision since 
hes brought the complaint to this service. 
What happened
Mr C and Ms G have worldwide travel insurance as a benefit with their bank account. the 
policy provides cover to them, for various pre-departure and post departure risks. They were 
due to travel to America in October 2022 and return at the beginning of November 2022. 
C says their destination became inaccessible since it was destroyed by a hurricane. He says 
state and federal travel advice in the USA was not to travel to the island and this wouldnt be 
lifted until January 2023 such was the destruction caused by the hurricane. 
Based on this advice Mr C cancelled his flights and was part refunded by the airline. He 
made a claim to his insurer for the difference, less the applicable excess on the policy. AWP 
declined the claim. It said the policy wording stipulates cover is provided to move to other 
accommodation at any point during the trip, and there is cover if the trip is cut short with prior 
authorisation from AWPs 24-hour medical emergency assistance service, if accommodation 
cant be used. AWP said since Mr C didnt travel to the destination the event wasnt covered 
under the travel disruption term of the policy. 
As a result of the claim being declined Mr C says hes out of pocket by £900 so he wants 
AWP to review its declination of the claim in light of the fact that advising them to travel 
against local and federal travel advice is dangerous. AWP didnt change its position. So Mr C 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for him. She agreed there was no cover under 
the travel disruption section of the policy but said the claim should be considered under the 
cancellation section; given the trip was cancelled. The investigator also recommended AWP 
pay Mr C £150 to apologise for the inconvenience caused and to reconsider the claim under 
the cancellation section of the policy. 
AWP didnt agree. It said the cancellation section of the policy only applied if the directive not 
to travel came into force after the policyholder left the United Kingdom and, since Mr C didnt 
travel, there wouldnt be any cover under this section of the policy. Because AWP didnt 
agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint, and require AWP to reassess Mr Cs 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; namely the cancellation 
and curtailment section. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this I need to take into account the relevant law, rules, 
and industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say 
that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So Ive thought about whether 
AWP acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mr Cs claim. 
Ive also reviewed the policy documentation, to see what cover the policy provides. On doing 
so I can see the policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip, in certain circumstances. 
The policy says the following; 
We will pay you up to £5,000 for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:
Cancellation of the trip; or
You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail your trip for 
more than 48 hours; or 
You have to make an early return home as a result of any of the following events 
occurring:
8. a government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation 
from, the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in provided such 
a directive came into force after you have left the United Kingdom.  
Mr C couldnt go on holiday in October 2022 because the island had been seriously 
impacted by the hurricane. The travel advice at the time was against travel to the area. And 
even if Mr C had disregarded the warning and travelled to the island his accommodation 
wasnt open due to significant storm damage. Given this, Im satisfied there were insured 
events that applied to Mr Cs cancellation claim. Im satisfied it was necessary and 
unavoidable for him to cancel his trip. 
AWP said the cancellation section of Mr Cs policy provides cover in the event of 
circumstances stipulated on page 20 of the terms and conditions. Specifically that the 
evacuation order came into force before Mr C had left the UK and so there wasnt any cover 
under the cancellation section of the policy. 
So, Ive considered this part of the terms and conditions, and thought about whether AWP 
has acted fairly and reasonably in citing this condition to decline the claim. And I dont think it 
has. The section regarding the government directive relates to when you have to make an 
early return home as a result of a government directive prohibiting all travel to, or 
recommending evacuation from, the area. But Mr C wasnt making an early return home  
he wasnt able to travel at all. He had to cancel his trip. So I think AWP acted unfairly in 
considering Mr Cs claim under the travel disruption section of the policy only. 
Putting things right
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP to reassess 
Mr C and Ms Gs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Our investigator recommended AWP pay Mr C and Ms G £150 to reflect the inconvenience 
caused by its handling of the claim. Im satisfied £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
amount to recognise the trouble and upset Mr C and Ms G have experienced. So I also 
require AWP to pay this.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained Im upholding this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to;
Reassess the claim under the remaining terms of the policy 
Pay Mr C and Ms G £150 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman