The complaint
Ms W and Mr W complain they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Ms W and Mr W took out a PPI policy with Santander in 2003. It would have covered their 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mr W (whom the policy covered) 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Ms W and Mr W say they were advised to take the insurance if they wanted a better chance 
of being approved for a further advance on their mortgage.  
The adjudicator didnt think Ms W and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Ms W and Mr W 
disagrees, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Ms W and Mr 
Ws complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ms W and Mr W already had a mortgage with Santander at the time of sale. They were sold 
the PPI over the phone when they applied for a further advance on that mortgage. They 
didnt have PPI with their original mortgage, so I think Ms W and Mr W would have been 
aware that PPI wasnt generally compulsory. Santander has said that PPI wouldnt have 
made a difference to its lending decision. And based on what this service knows about the 
scripts used by sales advisers at the time of sale it seems likely Ms W and Mr W would have 
been told the PPI was optional. I havent seen anything to suggest that Santander did 
something different in Ms W and Mr Ws case. 
On balance, Im satisfied Ms W and Mr W bought the PPI knowing they had a choice about 
it. 
Santander advised Ms W and Mr W to buy the PPI so it had a duty to take reasonable steps 
to make sure it was right for them. Looking at Ms W and Mr Ws circumstances at the time I 
think that it was. I say this because:
DRN-1822440Mr W (whom the policy covered) was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by
any terms which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim,
such as those related to existing medical conditions;
Mr W only had statutory sick pay. The policy would have paid out in addition to this
and potentially for up to a year at a time. I think Ms W and Mr W would have
struggled to meet all their financial obligations if Mr W was only receiving statutory
sick pay. So the PPI offered an additional benefit;
Similarly, Mr W was only entitled to statutory redundancy pay. The PPI would have
paid out for up to 12 months at a time, so it provided an additional benefit.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar products on the market around
the same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled without penalty at any time.
And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Ms W and Mr W.
Santander also needed to make sure Ms W and Mr W had enough information about the 
policy to make their own informed decision. I am satisfied that Ms W and Mr W would have  
as a very minimum - understood they were buying a policy designed to meet their mortgage 
repayments if Mr W couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. And although 
I cant be sure Ms W and Mr W had all the other detail they ideally shouldve done, I dont 
think theyd have acted differently and not bought the policy if theyd had all the information. I 
say this because the policy was suitable for them in the way Ive already described.
So, on balance, I dont think Ms W and Mr W lost out because of anything Santander might 
have done wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms W and Mr Ws complaint, so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman