DRN-3358648
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc referred his loan account to debt collectors despite 
agreeing a partial settlement. 
What happened
Mr M took out a loan with TSB in 2013. In 2016 a debt advice service (S) contacted TSB on 
Mr Ms behalf and agreed a payment plan following some financial difficulties. 
In March 2021 Mrs M, acting on Mr Ms behalf, contacted TSB and asked it to accept a 
partial settlement. TSB agreed. Mrs M asked TSB to confirm its decision in writing but no 
letter was received. In April 2020 S also asked TSB to accept a partial settlement for Mr Ms 
loan. TSB wrote to S and confirmed it would accept a settlement figure of £4,985 and that 
the offer was valid for 30 days.
Monthly payments were received until August 2020 when they stopped. In February 2021 
TSB referred the account to a third party debt collector (W) who contacted Mr M. 
In October 2020 Mrs M spoke with TSB after it sent Mr M a letter about his loan. The letter 
didnt contain Mr Ms loan account number and TSB advised it couldnt help. The call ended 
without discussion of the account. 
Mr M complained and TSB issued a final response that said it agreed a partial settlement in 
April 2020 but hadnt received a follow up payment. As a result, the debt was referred to W 
to collect. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They said a 
payment had been made to TSB in relation to a different account but that Mr Ms loan hadnt 
received the partial settlement agreed. But the investigator thought the service given to Mr M 
and Mrs M by TSB shouldve been better and asked it to pay £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. TSB asked to appeal, so Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the available information and agree with TSBs claim it didnt receive a 
partial settlement for Mr Ms loan. TSB has confirmed the payment it received related to a 
different account that isnt part of this complaint. 
Our investigator noted Mrs M asked TSB to send Mr M confirmation of the partial settlement 
it agreed to accept in March 2020. TSB didnt send that letter but has made the counter 
argument it later agreed to accept a partial settlement from S on Mr Ms behalf. I take TSBs 
point and can see it did confirm its acceptance in writing to S. But Mr M had more than one 
account with TSB and its clear he wanted TSB to confirm its position in writing. Whilst TSB 
has shown it did so for S, it hasnt explained why the partial settlement offer wasnt 
confirmed to Mr M in March 2020. I think that couldve helped ensure all parties remained 
clear on what had been agreed and avoided some of the following confusion. 
TSB also said it didnt have authority to speak with Mrs M on Mr Ms behalf so couldnt 
discuss his loan when she called in October 2020. Ive listened to the call and Mr M can be 
heard in the background. If the call handler needed to obtain his authority to discuss his loan 
with Mrs M they couldve simply asked. Having listened to the call, I think the reason it didnt 
proceed is because no usable reference number could be found on the letter, not because 
Mr M didnt give authority for Mrs M to speak on his behalf. And given TSB wrote to Mr M to 
try and obtain contact, Im surprised the reference numbers in its letters didnt lead to the 
loan being identified. 
I think TSB ought to have been able to identify Mr M when he and Mrs M called in October 
2020 and identify the account it had written to him about. Had it done so, the need to refer 
the loan to W for debt collection purposes couldve been avoided. Its clear that caused Mr M 
some upset so I think its fair for TSB to pay a settlement for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
I think theres been some crossed wires and Im satisfied Mr M genuinely thought his loan 
had been repaid. Unfortunately, thats not the case. But I think TSB couldve done more to 
help Mr M understand what had happened and why it was writing to him about the loan. As 
Im satisfied TSB caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr M Im uphold his 
complaint. In my view, £150 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M so Im 
going to proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay him £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman