DRN-2204929
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited wrongly avoided her motor insurance policy 
on the basis that shed misrepresented the facts when she took it out.  
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy through a broker (firm A) in January 2019 and it was renewed in 
January 2020. In February 2020 Mrs Ms car was stolen. Ageas agreed to settle the claim on 
24 February 2020, subject to verifying the cars V5 registration document. But the address 
on the V5 was Mrs Ms previous address, not the one on the policy. Mrs M was asked about 
it, and as Ageas still had concerns, another advisor spoke to Mrs M on 25 February 2020. 
He arranged a three-way call with the DVLA. During the call it emerged that Mrs M had an 
endorsement on her licence from October 2018 that Ageas hadnt been aware of. 
Mrs M gave various explanations to Ageas during the call. One of them was that shed told 
firm A about the endorsement, so the details should have been passed to Ageas. Ageas said 
it wouldnt have offered her cover had it been aware of the endorsement. It referred to the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
It said Mrs M hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and hadnt 
checked the documents issued to her by firm A.  
Firm A had arranged insurance for Mrs M since 2016 at address A. In 2019 when she 
bought the policy with Ageas, she told firm A she now lived at address B. Ageas noted that 
when it asked about her address during the validation calls Mrs M said she still stayed at 
address A sometimes. Various documents showed that was still her address. In its final 
response letter, Ageas told Mrs  M that had it known she lived at address A - or at two 
addresses  that would have been unacceptable to it, as well as the endorsement. 
Mrs Ms solicitor said Ageas couldnt raise issues about the endorsement and Mrs Ms 
address after it had affirmed policy cover by agreeing to cover the claim. He said it had time 
to conduct its full investigation before doing that. And in his view, firm A was at fault, as it 
didnt provide accurate documents to Mrs M, or ask her to check them. 
He said Mrs M lived at address B and only stayed at address A (her former home) at times. 
The solicitor said Ageas had accepted her explanation (and it wasnt part of the reason given 
for declining the claim). He said the real issue was the endorsement. He said Mrs M could 
show that despite Ageas saying it was unacceptable, she was able to get a quote when 
declaring it, directly from Ageas. He said that after this was put to Ageas, it accepted that it 
would have offered cover to her directly (but not through a broker, as different underwriting 
criteria apply).
The solicitor said that resulted in an unreasonable and unfair outcome for Mrs M. He also 
thought it wasnt in line with CIDRAs requirements. He said if it was accepted that Mrs M 
had made a misrepresentation (which he didnt accept) it was only a careless one, not made 
by her deliberately or recklessly. He said Ageas could only avoid the policy if it could show it 
wouldnt have offered  cover to Mrs M on any terms  and it couldnt do so. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ms complaint. She thought Ageas had acted 
reasonably. She said even if Mrs M had told firm A about the endorsement, the onus was on 
her to check that the details it recorded were correct on the documents it sent her. Given the 
concerns about Mrs Ms address, she thought it was reasonable for Ageas to carry out 
further enquiries after saying it would pay the claim. She said Ageas had explained that its 
retail arm would have offered cover for the endorsement (for an increased premium) for 
commercial reasons. 
Mrs Ms solicitor then provided extensive evidence that Mrs M lives at address B. He said 
she only stays at address A around once a fortnight. He said firm A had said that in 2019, it 
asked Mrs M to confirm that all the details set out in her previous policy were the same, 
which she did. On that basis, it sent her a proposal form, setting out the details shed 
previously declared. He said Mrs M accepted that an error was made. She didnt sign and 
return the form or tell firm A that any of the details on the proposal form were wrong. In his 
view that meant shed made a careless mistake  which didnt allow Ageas to void the 
contract. He said the means by which a policy was obtained werent relevant under CIDRA. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms address
As queries arose about Mrs Ms address on the V5 document, I think it was reasonable for 
Ageas to put the settlement on hold until it was satisfied with her response to its queries, in 
line with standard industry practice.  
Having heard the recording of the call between Mrs M and Ageass second advisor about 
this issue, I think Mrs M was vague in some of the responses she gave to his questions. I 
think it was reasonable for him to arrange a call with the DVLA. The DVLAs advisor asked 
Mrs M to amend her address on its records and then read out the endorsement. Ageass 
advisor later questioned Mrs M about it and warned her that as Ageas wouldnt have offered 
cover had it known about the endorsement, her claim may not be dealt with.
  
Ageas said in its final response letter that it wouldnt have offered cover had it known Mrs M 
lived at address A, or at two addresses. But that wasnt the reason it gave initially for 
avoiding the policy. And Mrs Ms solicitor says Ageas later accepted that Mrs M lived at 
address B, as shes provided substantial evidence of it. We asked Ageas about that recently. 
It didnt say it was now satisfied with the details provided about Mrs Ms address. But it said 
the avoidance of the policy was based on the undisclosed endorsement.  
The endorsement
Mrs M initially told the advisor that she didnt mention the endorsement to firm A, as shed 
paid a fine. She then said she was sure shed provided the details to it. But she accepted 
that she hadnt checked the proposal forms to ensure the facts set out in them were right.  
In a further call with Ageas Mrs M said it was firm As fault that Ageas wasnt told about the 
endorsement. She said there was no section on the proposal form for details about driving 
offences. When the advisor pointed out that there was a section for them (which had been 
left blank) Mrs M said firm A didnt tell her to check the form. Later in the same call, Mrs M 
said she was never asked any questions by firm A - despite having said shed told firm A 
about the endorsement. So the accounts she gave Ageas were very inconsistent. CIDRA
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would only have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless.
Reasonable care 
It was firm As role to gather information from Mrs M and pass it to Ageas on her behalf. The 
proposal forms each contained a section listing the details Mrs M had provided to firm A 
about motoring convictions, which were blank. The motoring convictions section said 
Please show any unspent convictions, driving licence endorsements, fixed penalty offences 
or pending prosecutions which you or any other person who will drive have incurred in the 
last five years.
I think that was a clear question. Mrs M accepts that she didnt check the proposal forms, 
even though theres evidence that firm A issued a covering letter with each one asking her to 
do that. The  proposal forms said the policy would be based on the details set out in them 
and pointed out that CIDRA applied. They also carried a warning that said not supplying 
complete and accurate information may mean that the policy would be invalid.
As Mrs M didnt check that the information shed provided was correct, or contact firm A to 
amend it, the details firm A passed to Ageas about Mrs Ms driving history were wrong. I 
think Ageas was entitled to rely on the information firm A provided, just as it would have 
done had Mrs M given it to Ageas directly. The onus was on Mrs M to ensure the policy was 
based on the correct information. So I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude that she didnt 
take reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts, either in 2019 - when she took the policy 
out  or in 2020, at renewal. 
 
Qualifying misrepresentation and remedy 
Ageas has provided underwriting criteria that shows had it known about the endorsement, it 
wouldnt have provided cover. I think that means Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one, as the information would have made a difference to Ageas.  
Ageas didnt say Mrs Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It treated it as 
careless. If theres been a careless misrepresentation, an insurer can only avoid the policy if 
it can show it wouldnt have offered cover on any terms. I think Ageas was able to do that, so 
it acted reasonably in avoiding the 2019 and 2020 policies and returning Mrs Ms premiums. 
Ive considered the argument put forward by Mrs Ms solicitor on this issue. I think Ageas is 
entitled to have different underwriting criteria for products sold directly and those sold 
through brokers such as firm A. Ageas says it wanted to boost direct sales by accepting the 
endorsement (for a 26% rise in the premium). We dont interfere in commercial matters such 
as this - and I dont think Ageass decision amounts to a breach of CIDRAs provisions. As any consumer with the same endorsement who had declared it to a broker wouldnt have 
been offered cover, I dont think Mrs M was treated unfairly.
Taking everything into account, as I think Ageas acted reasonably in avoiding Mrs Ms policy 
and not dealing with her claim, I cant uphold Mrs Ms complaint.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman