DRN-2047101
 
The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him
What happened
This complaint is about 3 short term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr C between November 
2018 and May 2019. Details of the 3 loans are as follows:
Loan Date started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 28/11/2018 13/12/2018 4 200 83.60
2 14/12/2018 16/04/2019 6 500 191.33
3 19/05/2019 01/08/2019 12 1000 254.33
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading and then latterly the FCAs the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more 
when it approved loans 1 and 2. This was early on in the lending relationship between the 
two parties. The repayments for the 2 loans also would have seemed affordable based on 
what Mr C had told Mr Lender. So, I dont think at this stage Mr Lender was wrong to give 
these two loans to Mr C. 
Mr Cs third loan was repayable over a 12-month period. So, the amounts that Mr C needed 
to repay for this loan were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of course, he 
was committing to making those repayments over a significant period.
I dont think the checks Mr Lender say it carried out were enough for loan 3. As I have 
already said, Mr C was committing to repay over a significant period. I think Mr Lender 
should have taken great care to ensure that his finances were stable enough to support such 
a lengthy commitment. So, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to base its 
affordability checks only on what Mr C was telling it about his finances.
Instead before lending to Mr C loan 3, Mr Lender ought to taken steps to establish what 
other short term lending commitments he held at that time. Had it done a proportionate 
check for loan 3, it would have shown Mr C was struggling to manage his money and was 
borrowing to pay borrowing. At the time Mr C asked to borrow loan 3 he also had 3 
outstanding short-term loans provided from other lenders.
If Sunny had carried out proportionate checks for loan 3 as I have described, it would have
seen that the monthly repayments were not sustainable and as a responsible lender it
should have declined the loan application.
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have given loan 3. So, at this point, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman