DRN-2824490
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that The Equine Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELIC) have 
declined her claim for treatment provided to her horse C.        
What happened
Mrs G held an insurance policy for C with ELIC from 20 June 2017. The policy was a Lunar 
Monthly policy which renewed every 28 days.
On 13 March 2020 Mrs G made a claim for vets fees related to Cs osteoarthritis totalling 
£1229.03. This claim was settled on 30 March 2020. Under the terms of the policy, claims 
can be made for a condition for a period of 365 days from first diagnosis.  
In August 2020 ELIC sent Mrs G a letter advising of a significant increase in premiums from 
8 September 2020. This was as a result of the annual review of her policy. Mrs G e-mailed 
ELIC on 6 September 2020 and advised that she did not wish to renew her policy, as she 
had obtained cheaper cover elsewhere.  On 11 September 2020 ELIC wrote to Mrs G and 
advised her that the policy had been cancelled as requested. 
On 24 November 2020 Mrs G submitted a further claim for £1134.01 to ELIC for treatment of 
Cs osteoarthritis for the period 2 September 2020 to November 2020.  
ELIC only paid £21.41 of the invoice. They advised that the policy had been cancelled from 8 
September 2020, and any part of the fees incurred after the cancellation date was not 
payable under the policy.  
Mrs G contacted ELIC to query this as she thought that her ELIC policy provided her with 
365 days of cover from 13 March 2020 for osteoarthritis claims even though she hadnt 
renewed her policy with ELIC on 8 September 2020. 
ELIC told her that as she had chosen not to renew, the policy had been cancelled. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with this decision and complained. Mrs G thought that the ELIC policy 
covered her for vets fees for osteoarthritis up until the 365 day limit, regardless of her not 
renewing the policy because she had paid the premium for the year in which the condition 
was accepted and the claim was still open. She argued that if consumers were not able to 
change insurers until the 365 day limit on claims had expired, they would be being held to 
ransom, and the insurer could increase the premiums to whatever limit they wished during 
that period. 
ELIC have said that if a policy is not renewed, it is cancelled, and in the Cancellation Rights 
on the policy it explains that liability ends at the point of cancellation. In order for the 365 day 
cover to continue, premiums must be kept up to date.  
They further explained that this policy is one of indemnity where cover is provided in 
exchange for a policy premium. If the policy is cancelled or payment isnt made, cover ends.  
ELIC issued a final response on 27 January 2021 in which they denied any liability after 8 
September 2020 when the policy was cancelled. 
Mrs G was unhappy with this outcome and she made a complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Gs complaint. He didnt think that ELIC had 
done anything wrong in declining the claim.   
Mrs G disagreed with our investigators view and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Ive looked at the policy terms, and the documentation provided to Mrs G on her policy for 
2019/2020 and the information that was provided with the renewal documents, and Ive 
thought about the arguments put forward by Mrs G. 
I can see from the policy document that it says the premium and excess for the policy are 
reviewed once a year. Mrs G was aware of this as she had held the insurance since 2017.   
The new monthly premium quoted in August 2020 to take effect in September was quite a lot 
higher than the previous year, and I can understand why Mrs G looked elsewhere for 
insurance that was cheaper. I note that the new insurance is also with the same underwriter 
(ELIC), but it is a new policy through a different company, and so it cant be considered to be 
a renewal. 
In the renewal policy schedule sent to Mrs G in August 2020, it says, As a matter of course, 
we regularly compare our policies against alternative providers but please feel free to have a 
look at the prices and levels of cover on offer. You may need to consider whether this would 
affect any conditions your horse may already have.
I think that this should have put Mrs G on notice that changing insurer may cause her an 
issue with Cs existing medical problem, and she would have been prudent to have checked 
this. 
Mrs G has argued that the policy provides 365 days cover for a condition from the date of 
diagnosis. She thinks that this isnt overridden by failure to renew the policy, and that once 
she had made the first claim for Cs osteoarthritis, this was an open claim which she could 
continue to claim against for 365 days. She has relied on the exclusion to the policys vet 
cover at Section 6 which says that costs incurred more than 365 days after the first date of 
illness or injury are excluded.  
I dont agree with Mrs Gs interpretation. This is an exclusion to a policy term, and cant be 
read in isolation, it must be read in conjunction with the term providing cover for the payment 
of vets fees, and with the policy as a whole. 
At page 11 of the documents sent to Mrs G in August 2019 it says: 
 When does the cover start and end? Your cover will take effect at the date and time stated on your policy schedule and ends at 
the conclusion of your Policy Term (as stated on your Policy schedule and defined in your 
Policy wording)
Page 16 of the 2019 policy document says:
Policy Term
Policy term is as agreed and stipulated in the policy schedule and is one of the 
following: 
Yearly policy - runs for 365 days from the commencement date shown on the policy 
schedule. This type of policy automatically renews annually
Lunar monthly  Runs for and premiums are collected on, equal periods of 28 days. 
This type of policy automatically renews every 28 days
Calendar monthly  Runs for and premiums are collected on a calendar monthly 
basis. This type of policy automatically renews every calendar month
Automatic renewal is subject to receipt of premium 
As Mrs Gs policy schedule shows it is a Lunar monthly policy, cover therefore renews every 
28 days, and ends at the end of each 28-day period unless automatically renewed by 
payment of a premium.  
Further, in the specific section on vets fees at page 20 of the documents sent to Mrs G in 
August 2019 it says:
Section 6  Vets Fees 
Cover
We pay up to the amount shown on the schedule for the charges for treatment given by a 
qualified vet or, if non-standard treatment cover applies and is shown in the schedule, by a 
qualified practitioner recommended by your vet. This must follow an injury or illness that has 
happened or started during this period of insurance
The period of insurance is defined in the policy as being for yearly policies, a period of 365 
days from the start of the policy or the last renewal, for monthly policies, 28 days unless 
agreed otherwise.
It goes on in the general conditions at page 21 to say that 6. We are liable only if we have 
received the correct premium before the start of each period of insurance
Mrs Gs decision not to renew the policy at the end of the 28-day period ending on 8 
September 2020 ended the period of insurance and ended her cover.  
In respect of Mrs Gs argument that there was an open claim I cant agree. The claim for 
Cs first batch of vets fees related to osteoarthritis was settled and closed on 30 March 
2020. Although the osteoarthritis may well be an ongoing condition, there is no open claim. 
Even if that were the case, the failure to renew the policy and pay premiums would terminate 
the period of insurance, and the cover in accordance with my reasons above.     
Mrs G has made one other point, which is that she didnt cancel the policy, she failed to 
renew it.  I dont think it makes any difference as the net result is the same, which is that the period of insurance ends.  I also note that the letter sent to Mrs G on 11 September 2020 
following her request not to renew her policy clearly says notification of policy cancellation  
I write to confirm cancellation of your insurance policy as requested with effect from the 
cancellation date shown above. If Mrs G had any concerns about this at the time and hadnt 
intended to cancel the policy she should have raised them with ELIC.   
I therefore find that this claim has been fairly declined.  
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs G and I understand that had she realised 
that cover would not be ongoing, she would have continued to pay the increased premium 
until the 365 day period had ended. However, the terms of the policy and the 
communications sent on termination of the policy are clear enough, and I can see no fault on 
the part of ELIC.  I hope that I have given Mrs G a clear explanation of my reasons for not 
upholding her complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited do not need to do 
anything further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman