DRN-2687736
The complaint
Mr J complains U K Insurance Limited has unfairly avoided his car insurance policy and 
retained the premium he paid.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator, so Ill only provide a brief summary here.
Mr J applied for a car insurance policy with UKI online
He answered various questions to enable UKI to provide a quote and he accepted 
the terms and the policy started
Sometime later, UKI asked him to provide proof of some of the information hed given 
as it had concerns about how hed responded to the questions
Mr J had a number of conversations with UKI and satisfied some of its queries, but it 
remained concerned about the answer hed given about his occupation
Mr J offered explanations about the various occupations hed said hed had but UKI 
said he hadnt provided the proof it had asked for, so it avoided his policy and 
retained the premium
Our investigator didnt think UKI had acted unfairly
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr J said his occupation was a student nurse and then an accountant and while he says he 
did start training for each of these professions, he didnt actually work in either of them and 
neither were ever his main job. He was in fact a carpet fitter and then a manager of a retail 
shop.
So, Im satisfied in answering this question as he did, he misrepresented his occupation.
Was this a qualifying misrepresentation?
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr J took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
Ive looked at the question Mr J was asked about his occupation and Im satisfied it was 
clear and not misleading. He was asked:
What is your main job?
Later when questioned, Mr J said hed wanted to be a nurse and an accountant and had 
simply made a mistake when completing the application. 
In answering as he did, I dont think he took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
The next thing for me to consider is whether UKI would have still entered into the contract, or 
whether it would have done so only on different terms, had it known about the 
misrepresentation. UKI has shown it would have still entered into the contract but it would 
only have done so by charging Mr J a different premium for the policy  in short, on different 
terms.
Because of this, Im satisfied it was a qualifying misrepresentation according to CIDRA.
The remedy available to UKI 
UKI has been able to show Mr J ran through a number of different quotes, adjusting some of 
the details as he did. He altered his occupation and the number of cars at his address 
several times. 
UKI has concluded this was done deliberately in order to manipulate the results and achieve 
a lower premium and so its said the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Im 
satisfied, given the evidence, this was a reasonable conclusion to reach. And because of 
this, in line with CIDRA, UKI is entitled to avoid the policy and retain the premium which is 
what its done.
Mr J has offered a number of explanations about why he gave the answers he did. UKI gave 
him the opportunity to provide evidence to substantiate his responses and said it would 
consider reclassifying the misrepresentation to careless and return the premium. But from 
what Ive seen, Mr J hasnt provided this evidence to UKI.
Overall, Im satisfied UKI hasnt acted unfairly in avoiding Mr Js policy and retaining his 
premium so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman