DRN-2884703
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), trading as More Th>n 
have asked him to pay back an overpayment after a motor insurance policy was cancelled.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat what is already known to both parties and not generally in dispute, in my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. She 
found that RSA had treated Mr O fairly and reasonably in asking for some of the repayment 
to be paid back.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint has now been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr O that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
RSAs error
On 19 April 2017 an initial cheque for £722.34 was issued to Mr O. RSA say Mr O contacted 
them shortly afterwards to say the cheque hadnt been received. RSA then issued a further 
two cheques for the same amount. 
RSA say their normal process wouldve been to cancel the original cheques, but this failed to 
happen in this case. This is disappointing as potentially it wouldve prevented the later issues 
with all three cheques being cashed. Ive then gone on to consider what the impact of this 
has been. 
RSA have acknowledged their error and offered Mr O £100 for any trouble and upset 
caused. I consider this fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of their actions on 
Mr O having carefully considered what hes told us. 
What happened with the cheques
In early 2021 RSA told Mr O that an overpayment of £1,444.68 had been made to him and 
needed to be paid back.
RSA have explained that their accounts team identified that all three cheques - issued in 
Mr Os name had been cashed - meaning theyd refunded a total of over £2,000 instead of 
the intended £722.34.
However, Mr O says he received only one cheque which he cashed and he has no 
knowledge of what happened to the other two cheques. But Ive also noted that even after 
RSA issued three cheques (the latest being September 2018), their records show that Mr O 
continued to contact them between September 2018 and December 2019 to explain that he 
hadnt received his refund - but no further cheques were issued. This doesnt support what 
Mr O told our investigator (and RSA) that he had received a refund, but had only cashed one 
cheque. 
RSA have confirmed with the bank that operated Mr Os account that the first two cheques 
were cashed into an account thats in Mr Os name. Its possible that due to the passage of 
time his memory has possibly faded and he hasnt accurately recalled what happened 
around the time the cheques were issued. 
For completeness, Ive also considered how two of the cheques couldve reasonably ended 
up in Mr Os account if he wasnt the person that cashed them. The other likely alternative 
explanation (in my opinion) is that somebody else received and cashed two cheques that 
were issued in Mr Os name into his (Mr Os) bank account. Im not persuaded by the 
alternative explanation.
RSA say the third cheque was also cashed, but during their investigation into the complaint  
theyve decided to discount it (£772.34) from the overpayment as a gesture of goodwill. As I 
consider this a very positive action thats favourable for Mr O, its not something Id seek to 
interfere with in my decision.
The overpayment that needs to be paid back
Although Mr O says this whole experience has caused him stress, particularly as some time 
has passed between the cheques being cashed and RSA asking for the overpayment to be 
paid back, I still consider it fair and reasonable that RSA have asked Mr O to repay £722.34. 
Its positive that RSA have already explained to Mr O that he can arrange a repayment plan 
and he should now make the necessary arrangements to do so.
I know Mr O will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with RSA  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman