DRN-2201115
The complaint
Mr H says his broker, A-Plan Holdings, didnt ask him clear questions when he took out a 
motor insurance policy through it, which led his insurer to avoid the policy.
What happened
Mr H called to get a quote from A-Plan for insuring his car in May 2020. Its advisor took him 
through a range of questions. He advised Mr H that not providing accurate and complete 
information could lead to the policy being invalidated. 
When the advisor asked whether Mr H had any no claims discount (NCD) Mr H said he had 
one years NCD. When asked why he only had one years NCD, he said it was because 
previously he was on a motor traders policy (on which personal NCD cant be earned). He 
couldnt recall the name of his current insurer or the date his policy was going to expire. 
When Mr H sent his one-year proof of NCD to A-Plan, it showed that it was on a motor trade 
policy and was held in the name of a company. Having noted that information, Mr Hs insurer 
told him in June 2020 that it was going to avoid the policy (treat it as though it had never 
existed). It said hed misrepresented the facts by not telling A-Plan that his NCD was on a 
motor trade policy. It said it wouldnt have offered him cover had it known the facts.
 
Mr H said A-Plan was at fault, as it hadnt asked him a clear question about his NCD. He 
said it should have asked him how much NCD he had on a private vehicle policy. But when 
one of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint, he didnt agree. He thought Mr H had 
shown he knew the difference between NCD on private and trader policies. Mr H said he 
wanted a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, if the misrepresentation is 
what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. To be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, the insurer must show that it would have offered the policy on different 
terms  or not at all -  had the consumer not made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out 
several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable care. 
And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
In this case, Mr H complains about A-Plan as it set up the policy. He thinks it made an error 
in not asking him a clear question about his NCD that led to the insurer avoiding the policy. 
The insurer said Mr H induced it to provide cover it wouldnt otherwise have offered by not 
disclosing that his NCD was on a motor trade policy. 
 
Whether a consumer failed to take reasonable care depends on whether the consumer gave 
the wrong answer to a clear question. Ive listened to the recordings of the calls between 
Mr H and A-Plan. In the first call he was asked if he had any NCD. I think that was a clear 
question. He was also asked why he only had one years NCD, which was another clear 
question. Mr H told the advisor it was because previously hed been on a motor trade policy. 
I think Mr Hs response shows he knew that on a motor trade policy a consumer doesnt earn 
NCD that can be transferred to a private policy. Yet the one-year NCD he told the advisor he 
had was on a trader policy. So I dont think Mr H took reasonable care to respond correctly 
and to the best of his knowledge to the clear questions that were asked about his NCD. 
I think it was reasonable for the advisor to conclude that Mr H had one years NCD on a 
private policy, based on the answers he gave, as set out above. The advisor also asked for 
the name of Mr Hs current insurer, but he said he couldnt remember. He then asked Mr H 
whether the policy had ended (or when the renewal was due). Mr H was very vague in his 
response, but eventually he said his current policy may end that day. 
I think its fair to say that Mr H led the advisor to believe that he had a current policy on a 
private car. But it transpired that he didnt, and that his motor trade policy had ended in 
October 2019. It seems he didnt have a policy after that but was insured on a friends policy. 
Mr H later told the investigator that he got confused about the issue. That may be so, but the 
impact of his confusion was that he gave A-Plan more misleading information.
As I think Mr H failed to take reasonable care in responding to A-Plans questions, I must 
consider whether he made a qualifying misrepresentation. Mr Hs insurer said it wouldnt 
have offered him any cover at all had it known the facts about his NCD, so I think his 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. The insurer didnt say whether it thought he had 
acted deliberately or recklessly in misrepresenting the facts. If an insurer thinks thats the 
case, under CIDRA it has the right to retain the premium, but it didnt do so in this case. 
I dont think Mr H has been able to show that A-Plan was responsible for the policy being 
avoided. Based on the details he provided to it, I think A-Plan acted reasonably in arranging 
the insurance. That means I cant uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman