DRN-2470638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on 
Mr Ts motor insurance policy.
Mr T is the main policyholder and Mrs T is a named driver on the policy. But, for ease of 
reading, where I refer to Mr Ts comments below, those are in respect of both himself and 
Mrs T.
Reference to esure includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr Ts wife was in an accident while on a trip. Their car was damaged and Mr T claimed on 
his policy. Mrs T had a number of issues with esures service after the accident including, 
amongst others, its initial response to the accident, arranging a suitable hire car and delays 
in arranging repairs. After esure returned the car to them Mr T complained about the quality 
of the repairs.
In a series of responses to Mr Ts complaints esure accepted that it hadn't got everything 
right and paid Mr and Mrs T a total of £450 compensation to address their distress and 
inconvenience. esure also instructed an independent engineer to inspect Mr Ts car. In 
July 2019 the engineer agreed that some repairs weren't up to standard and suggested 
esure arrange further work to put things right. He estimated the cost of all the repairs, 
including to the drivers side front wing, were £3,811.04. esure agreed that further repair 
work was required. But it didn't agree that it should pay for work to the drivers side front 
wing, as it said the issue was caused by a non-manufacturer supplied component that was 
already on the car.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Two of our investigators have considered it. They both felt 
esure hadn't dealt with Mr and Mrs T fairly and should arrange or pay for the additional work 
the car requires including work to the front wing.
esure didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it.
 
In bringing this complaint Mr T has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address every point raised 
and instead will focus on what I see as being the outstanding issues.
Its plain from reading the file that Mr and Mrs Ts claims journey didn't go smoothly. And as 
I've said above there were a number of issues esure has accepted it could have handled 
better. But esure has acknowledged the impact of the gaps in its service when its paid them 
compensation totalling £450. I think that's a reasonable response to the issues esures 
already recognised. So I don't intend to instruct esure to take any further action on those 
points.
There remains a dispute about the quality of the repairs. There were three issues, kerb 
damage to the wheels, wiper blades not working and damage to a tow bar that Mr T feels 
were caused by esures repairers. But these werent areas that were within the scope of 
repairs esure was responsible for. And Mr T isn't able to provide evidence that those areas 
were in a better condition before the accident. So I don't think esure needs to repair those 
issues. But esure instructed an independent engineer to examine the work the repairers 
carried out on Mr Ts car. The engineer found that some of the repair work wasnt up to 
standard and needed to be put right. Those were:
Replacing the bumper with a genuine manufacturer approved part
Replacing the lower grills
Refinish the bonnet and replace the headlamp
Refinish the drivers door.
Concerning the front wing, the engineer said:
The wing was repaired by [esures repairers] and not replaced, however it is evident 
that the wing has been replaced at some stage with a non genuine part, this being 
the most likely explanation for the poor alignment. I have spoken with Mr T[] on the 
telephone however and he is adamant that the wing was not in such a condition prior 
to the incident. You may wish to replace the wing as supplementary to the original 
damage as a means to address and conclude the complaint.
The engineer estimated the costs to correct all the repairs at £3,811.04
When esure considered the engineers report it agreed to pay for or arrange the repairs for 
the first four items listed above. But it said that, as the issue with the front wing was caused 
by a non-manufacturer approved part being fitted, it wouldn't cover the costs of the work 
associated with that. Mr T didn't think that was fair. Hes pointed out that there was nothing 
wrong with the wing alignment prior to the repair and says he hadn't previously been aware 
that the part wasn't an original one.
esures told us its repairers did some repair work to the front wing and to parts around it 
including wing brackets and the wheelhouse moulding. But it's in-house engineer said the 
repairers did that work without removing the wing, so it wasn't responsible for the faulty 
alignment. It said its repairers hadn't charged it for a replacement wing; so it wasn't them 
who fitted the non-manufacturer approved wing and it was already on the car. I accept 
esures evidence that the repairers didn't fit the non-standard wing, as if they had I would 
have expected to see them bill esure for supplying the part, but they haven't. 
I also accept esures engineers professional opinion that the work to the front wing could be 
carried out without removing it completely. Although Mr Ts told us that new rivets securing 
the wing are visible underneath the bonnet, which don't match those on the other side. esure 
hasn't explained why that might be the case, nor why the wing might be out of alignment 
now when, according to Mr T, it wasn't previously. 
Im persuaded by Mr Ts evidence that he wasn't previously aware the wing wasnt a 
manufacturer approved part. I also accept his evidence that the wing wasnt out of alignment 
before the repairs. Thats because esure did work on that part of the car, it also worked on brackets holding the wing and theres evidence from Mr T of new rivets holding it in place. 
Further, theres no evidence from the repairers that the wing was out of alignment before 
they began work on it, and I think that's something they would have commented on if it had 
been. And, all of this persuades me that the misalignment happened because of the repairs. 
And as the wing wasnt previously misaligned, Mr T had no reason to know or find out 
whether or not the wing was standard. Mr Ts also been clear that all he is looking for is for 
his car to be returned to the condition that it was in before the accident and repair. But when 
esure returned it to him it suffered an alignment issue that hadn't existed before esures 
repairers worked on that part of the car. And in those circumstances I think esure needs to 
take responsibility for putting that issue right. 
It follows that I think that esure should remain responsible for repairing all areas of the car 
identified in the independent engineers report including the front wing. And esure should 
offer Mr T the option of having his car repaired at one of its approved repairers. Alternatively, 
if Mr T prefers to instruct his own garage then esure should make him a cash-in-lieu 
settlement for the repairs as estimated by the independent engineer in the sum of £3,811.04.
For completeness, Mr Ts told us that the accident and its aftermath have had a marked 
effect on both his and his wifes health. I was sorry to read of the difficulties Mr and Mrs T 
have suffered, and clearly the issue with esure wont have helped. But, as Im sure Mr T is 
aware, esure isn't responsible for any impact the accident itself has had on his or his wifes 
health. But I hope my decision can, at least, help bring a resolution to this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance 
Limited to either: arrange for all the repairs identified in the independent engineers report of 
July 2019 to be carried out by one of its approved repairers; or if Mr T prefers, it should pay 
him a cash-in-lieu settlement of £3,811.04.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman