DRN-3309744
The complaint
Ms A says the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) to transfer her 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits, into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
with Momentum Pension Ltd (MP) and invest in the SVS Securities (SVS) aggressive 
portfolio overseen by SVSs discretionary fund management (DFM), was unsuitable. 
Ms A is represented by Clarke Willmott LLP (CW).
What happened
Following being made redundant in 2012, Mr Z was recommended to Ms A to provide her 
with financial advice. He was a non-regulated adviser who acted as an introducer. In 2016 
he began an association with Fiducia Wealth Solutions Limited (FWS).
In November 2016, Ms A met with Mr Z to discuss retirement and investment planning. Her 
dealings with FWS appear to have been at arms-length. She didnt meet with its advisers 
and any communications were in writing. Instead she met with Mr Z and he gathered 
information and acted as a conduit between her and FWS.
Ms A accepted a recommendation from FWS in December 2016 to move an existing 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) fund worth around £74,000 to a new provider  SVS.
Between December 2016 and June 2017, Ms A had several meetings with Mr Z at her home 
 the focus being on her pension provision. He was persistent in encouraging her to make 
new arrangements.
Ms A was a member of an OPS with deferred benefits. Shed accrued 8 years of qualifying 
service with a former employer. This had a transfer value of around £126,000. She also had 
a personal pension with Liverpool Victoria (LV) worth around £169,000.
Ms A says Mr Z told her that OPS were becoming risky, and the pension pots were 
diminishing. On the other hand, he described very promising returns on her retirement funds 
if she took out a SIPP. She trusted what Mr Z and FWS told her.
As an aside, I should note that in August 2019, SVS Securities was placed into special 
administration following intervention by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Further, FWS 
went into liquidation in June 2020. And I understand the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) are accepting certain claims against it.
Its of note that FWS wasnt authorised by the FCA to provide advice about the transfer of 
OPS benefits. So, it contracted with BRG to deliver that expertise, this included the 
production by it of a pension report.
My decision here only concerns the acts and omissions of BRG in relation to the transfer of 
Ms As OPS benefits. I appreciate she may have concerns about what happened to her ISA 
and her personal pension, and how her funds were managed. But those matters will need to 
be pursued separately, recognising the status of the entities involved.
BRG gathered information about Ms As circumstances, objectives and matters such as her 
attitude to risk. It contacted FWS in May 2017 to clarify certain matters. This included trying 
to understand what her objectives were, since this wasnt clear from the fact-find. FWS 
responded in the following terms:
[Ms A has no confidence in her ex employer and wants to break all ties. Whilst she is not 
yet 55, she will probably want to access tax free cash to use and add to her property 
portfolio. She is more interested in having the flexibility to control the way benefits are taken 
and when, she also wants to maximise the tax free lump sum and have the ability to retire 
much earlier than the scheme allows.
BRG produced a pension report dated 8 May 2017, which recommended Ms A proceed with 
the transfer of her OPS benefits. Ultimately she was persuaded by the advice. She signed 
the necessary paperwork and the transaction was completed in August 2017. The funds 
were placed in a MP SIPP and invested in a SVS aggressive portfolio overseen by the SVS 
DFM arrangement.
CW, on behalf of Ms A, complained in May 2020 to BRG about what had happened in 2017. 
It said BRG failed to meet the regulatory obligations placed on it when advising someone 
about transferring their OPS benefits. It didnt think it had gathered all the necessary 
information about her to provide her with best advice. It thought its communications were not 
clear, fair and were misleading.
Ms A also noted that she had little experience of pensions and investments. She believes 
the risk assessment was flawed  see doesnt believe she had an aggressive appetite. She 
says that since problems with her pension provision have emerged shes been worried about 
the implications. Ms A says that had she been given proper advice shed have remained a 
member of her OPS.
BRG sent its response to CW in June 2020. It set out what it considered to be the limited 
scope of its involvement. It concluded in the following terms:
We did not provide your client with financial advice, we stand by our pension transfer 
analysis and [the] recommendation, [which] reflect her personal circumstances as provided 
to us by FWS and confirmed by ourselves.
The recommendation that a transfer wouldnt be inappropriate was set against the starting 
assumption that for most members given their personal financial circumstances the greater 
likelihood of a lifetime income from an [OPS] would urge against a transfer.
In [Ms As] circumstance such concerns were not prevalent and therefore as long as the 
transfer analysis gave a positive result based on conservative assumptions, we were happy 
to support the transfer in our report to FWS and [Ms A].
The Investigator recommended that Ms As complaint should be upheld. She wasnt 
persuaded that BRG had demonstrated the transfer of her OPS benefits was demonstrably 
in her best interests as it was required to do.
BRG disagreed. It set out itss relationship with FWS, the process it followed and the 
expertise of its advisers. It explained why it maintained that the transfer was suitable for Ms 
A in her circumstances. And it noted that both FWS and SVS had misled it and the regulator 
concerning how underlying investments would be managed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings, Ms As complaint has been 
passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision last month. Ms A provided some 
further thoughts but these havent caused me to change my main findings and conclusions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Ms As case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by BRG for Ms A. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BRG. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Ms As complaint.
At the time of the advice BRG gave Ms A, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, BRG was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Ms A to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Ms A a copy of the comparison, drawing her attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Ms A understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.In simple terms, BRG had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Ms A on what to do.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2017 it issued an industry alert which said:
We are aware that some firms have been advising on pension transfers or switches without 
considering the assets in which their clients funds will be invested. We are concerned that 
consumers receiving this advice are at risk of transferring into unsuitable investments
Transferring pension benefits is usually irreversible. The merits or otherwise of the transfer 
may only become apparent years into the future. So it is particularly important that firms 
advising on pension transfers ensure that their clients understand fully the implications of a 
proposed transfer before deciding whether or not to proceed.
We expect a firm advising on a pension transfer from a defined benefit (DB) scheme or 
other scheme with safeguarded benefits to consider the assets in which the clients funds will 
be invested as well as the specific receiving scheme. It is the responsibility of the firm 
advising on the transfer to take into account the characteristics of these assets.
Our rules set out what a firm must do in preparing and providing a transfer analysis. In 
particular, our rules (COBS 19.1.2R(1)) require a comparison between the benefits likely (on 
reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a DB scheme or other scheme with safeguarded 
benefits and the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits.
The comparison should explain the rates of return that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up and should be illustrated on rates of return which take 
into account the likely expected returns of the assets in which the clients funds will be 
invested. Unless the advice has taken into account the likely expected returns of the assets, 
as well as the associated risks and all costs and charges that will be borne by the client, it is 
unlikely that the advice will meet our expectations
Did BRG adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it when advising Ms A?
In short, I dont think BRG met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are several documents relating to BRGs transaction with Ms A that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-find, the pension transfer report and the suitability 
report. Ive thought carefully about the testimony of both parties and other communications 
such as the email exchanges with third parties.
The regulatory position sets a high bar, which BRG must be able to clearly demonstrate was 
met, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mrs Gs best interests. Im not 
satisfied its managed to do this in the circumstances of this case.
At the time of the advice Ms A was 53. She was single and had no financial dependents. 
She was in good health. She had a role as a buyer and earned about £25,000 a year. She 
also received around £15,000 a year from her investments. She had a monthly net disposable income of £1,500. Ms A owned her own home, which was worth around 
£180,000. She had an outstanding mortgage of about £14,000. 
She had six buy-to-let (BTL) properties, which shed inherited from her father. One of the 
properties had an endowment mortgage. The portfolio was worth in the region of £800,000. 
Ms A doesnt appear to have had any other liabilities. Her other assets included cash and 
savings worth around £174,000.
Ms As pension provision included a personal plan with LV worth around £169,000. And she 
had her OPS benefits worth around £126,000. She planned to retire at 60. Her required 
income in retirement was recorded as unknown. But her entitlement to a state pension, her 
savings and assets were noted as potential sources to support her in retirement. Her life 
expectancy was said to be 85.
BRG were informed Ms As objectives in this transaction including breaking all ties with her 
former employer, which she was said to have no confidence in. She probably wanted to 
access tax-free cash (TFC) when she reached 55, which she wanted to maximise and use to 
add to her BTL properties. She wanted flexibility to control her pension benefits and be able 
to retire much earlier than her OPS allowed.
Ms A says these objectives were things suggested to her by Mr Z. She says trade-offs were 
never explored. She had no reason to distrust her previous employer at all. She says she 
couldve achieved income flexibility using her existing savings. She says she never 
discussed her objectives with an authorised adviser prior to transferring. She says it wasnt 
one of her objectives to obtain TFC.
Ms As position appears to be weakened by the existence of documents such as the pension 
report, which contained the information she now refutes. That begs the question why she 
didnt challenge it at the time. I place more weight on evidence contemporaneous with the 
events complained about because I find it tends to provide a more accurate picture. 
That said, I note that the job done by Mr Z and FWS to understand and record Ms As 
objectives was poor. I say this because BRG had to ask what the rationale for the transfer 
was  it wasnt clear from the information gathered up to that point. And this shouldve set 
alarm bells ringing.
But rather than exploring matters further or engaging directly with Ms A, BRG appears to 
have simply reflected what it was told. That must be the case because the email exchange 
with FWS on this matter happened the same day it produced her pension report in May 
2017.
Further, turning to the substance of what Ms As objectives were, they dont appear 
particularly compelling. For example, it was said she would probably want to use TFC when 
she was 55, to increase her already significant property portfolio.
And I think Ms As point about already having sufficient flexibility in terms of income in 
retirement given her asset and investment holdings at the time to be another strong 
argument, which appears to undermine what was recorded about her objectives.
Theres no record of what income Ms A would need or target for retirement. Ive seen no 
evidence of an attempt by BRG to get to the bottom of this key question. I think this wouldve 
been important to her being able to take an informed view about the transfer of her OPS 
benefits. BRG hasnt done enough to satisfy me the process it followed was thorough, and 
therefore fair.BRG was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Ms A about 
what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over 
many years are to provide for retirement. And certainly when early access to benefits are 
recommended there need to be compelling reasons. Thats not the case here based on the 
available evidence.
It was BRGs role to discern what Ms As wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what it thought she wanted without any critical thinking. And it wasnt 
providing a basic transactional service to FWS. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do 
these things because it had to act in her best interests. It hasnt demonstrated that it met 
these obligations.
Turning to the financial case for this transaction. The critical yield is the level of returns Ms 
As new SIPP would need to have achieved in order for the transfer to match her OPS 
pension benefits at retirement (aged 60). The pension transfer report indicated that an 
annual return of not less than 16.98% would be required (assuming that all her benefits were 
taken as a pension).
BRGs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Ms As case.
The critical yield required to match Ms As OPS benefits was 16.98%. When the advice was 
given, the relevant discount rate was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
The comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable that if Ms A had a high appetite for risk, the 
investment portfolio selected in that case mightve had an outside chance of big returns. But 
even then this wouldve been unlikely to bridge such a major gap.
BRG says it did not use the critical yield analysis in its advice. Instead it produced a cash 
flow analysis to show how long Ms As funds would last, based on certain assumptions such 
as her life expectancy and at different growth rates. The modelling suggested that with a 5% 
return, if she were to drawdown benefits equivalent to those it projected from her OPS, her 
pot could last until she was 89.
Its not unreasonable to use cash flow models. I accept they can help customers understand 
benefits more practically. But clearly much depends on the data and assumptions used. 
Having considered the results produced by BRGs report I dont find the results for Ms As 
case showed it was demonstrably in her best interests to transfer.
I can see that to arrive at its main outcome some remodelling of the input data was required 
 the following message between FWS and BRG from May 2017 speaks to this:
[Ms As OPS provider is] not generous with their [transfer values]. With this one in particular 
because she left some time ago and her [guaranteed minimum pension (GMP)] is quite large 
to get the math to work I have had to rather cut back on the commissions. With big GMP 
cases and leaving in the 90s the GMP fixed revaluation rate is/was 7%. This has caused the 
deferred pension at exit to more than treble by [normal retirement date]. To get to the [life 
expectancy plus five years] we need to agree the transfer I have had to take the initial fee down to £2k and just a quarter trail [0.25%] and, again to go into the cheaper Intelligent 
Money wrapper.
While fees were altered in the model to make the case for transfer, I cant see how these 
adjustments aligned with the fees that Ms A ended up paying. The suitability report FWS 
sent her on 19 January 2018  leaving aside the fact this came several months after the 
advice and transfer had been effected which is a serious flaw in its process  shows fees for 
its ongoing advice of at least 0.5% per annum; SIPP fees; fund annual management charges 
of 1%; and DFM costs.
I think BRG needed to have been more transparent about the fees and charges she would 
be incurring and the impact of these on the illustrations she was provided.
The life expectancy calculations used by BRG indicated Ms A had a life expectancy of 85, it 
added five years to this as a threshold for modelling purposes. I can see from reviewing 
information from the Office for National Statistics website published in January 2016 
indicated that someone of her age had an average life expectancy of 88 years. She had a 
one in four chance of reaching 97 and a one in ten chance of reaching 102.
I think BRG needed to be clear with Ms A that there was a significant possibility that if she 
went into drawdown this element of her pension pot could be exhausted before she passed. 
I dont think Ms A was an investment professional or a sophisticated investor. But she did 
have some knowledge of investments. This is important context when I consider what 
happened to her.
There are some oddities when it comes to how FWS assessed Ms As appetite for risk. The 
assessments over a short period of time vary on a scale of 1 to 10, from between 6 and 8. 
These are significant differences.
For example, on the fact-find from November 2016 I can see high-risk level eight is circled, 
presumably by the adviser at FWS. But by December 2016, when it was advising on the 
switch of her ISA provider the following extract from the suitability letter is instructive:
The above funds were recommended based on the level of risk you are prepared to accept. 
This was identified and agreed following completion of a risk profiling questionnaire. You had 
indicated your risk level was a 7 (Highest medium risk). However, after running the 
questionnaire and further assessment, your risk level for the investment was confirmed as a 
level 6 (High medium risk). This is confirmed after processing the risk questionnaire you 
completedYou have also confirmed that you have a fair degree of knowledge and 
understanding with regards to investments.
Ive also seen a risk assessment form which Ms A signed off on 7 April 2017. This again 
confirmed her appetite for risk at level 6  high medium risk. But a month later, BRGs 
suitability report is based on a level 7 risk appetite  highest medium risk. And it endorsed an 
investment strategy based on such. Its suitability report said (bolding is my emphasis):
Having received independent financial advice from Fiducia, you are planning to transfer 
your funds into a [SIPP] with Momentum Pensions LtdOnce your fund is in the [SIPP] your 
funds will be invested into the SVS Securities Aggressive portfolio.
SVS Securities Plc are acting on your behalf as a discretionary fund manager
We confirm that this investment strategy is commensurate with the risk profile and capacity 
for loss assessments that have been assessed for you. We would also confirm that this 
investment strategy is appropriate for the required level of returns to ratify the decisions we 
have made within this report. Should you choose to move away from this investment strategy this would most certainly adversely affect our recommendations detailed 
within this report.
I dont know why BRG used the wrong attitude to risk assessment from FWS. I dont know 
how closely it consulted that firm. Its not clear to me it had any direct dealings with Ms A at 
all. The business model it adopts is of course a matter for it. But clearly there are risks when 
the client for an important piece of work is at arms-length. Its also clear from what BRG said 
at the time this issue wouldve undermined the advice it gave.
While I recognise Ms A didnt pick up on this error, assuming she received a copy of the 
pension report, it was a rather technical document. And for some reason she didnt receive 
FWSs suitability letter until the following year after the transaction had been completed. 
More generally, Im not satisfied that Ms A was properly informed that by moving away from 
her OPS scheme and using the funds to invest, she was moving from a situation where her 
former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of her retirement income to 
one where she was taking on that risk.
I think BRG is right when it says Ms A had good capacity for loss. She had various 
significant assets to fall back on. But that didnt mean that she should or wanted to take 
unnecessary risks. I note that shed already been persuaded by FWS to switch her personal 
pension funds into the same arrangement proposed for her OPS benefits.
Even if there had been any merit in exposing some of her pension provision to higher risk 
funds, its difficult to understand the justification for moving all her pension funds into the 
same basket. A more balanced approach wouldve been to have retained her OPS benefits, 
which enjoyed guarantees and protections, offsetting risks she was taking elsewhere and 
providing a more diversified set of assets.
Its arguable BRG seemed more concerned with fulfilling a contract with FWS for pension 
transfer expertise than providing effective advice about what was in Ms As best interests 
concerning her valuable OPS benefits. It hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the 
transaction was demonstrably in her best interest.
Overall, I think BRG shouldve provided Ms A with an explicit recommendation not to 
proceed with the transfer of her OPS benefits into the SIPP, to invest in funds that were 
beyond her risk appetite. I think that if BRG had given Ms A appropriate advice, she wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfer.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Ms As pension funds could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to her. As such I think BRG failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing 
her with advice. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to 
uphold this complaint against BRG and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Ms As case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Better Retirement Group Ltd responsible for.
If BRG had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Ms A wouldve transferred her OPS 
benefits, into a SIPP with MP and invest in the SVS Securities (SVS) aggressive portfolio 
overseen by a DFM. And she wouldnt have suffered the financial loss shes facing. I think 
its most likely she wouldve left her pension where it had been.So Better Retirement Group Ltd needs to do the following.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Better Retirement Group Ltd should pay Ms A the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that BRG pays Ms A the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. BRG doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. She may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
I consider Ms A wouldve remained in her former OPS. Better Retirement Group Ltd should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
I understand Ms A hasnt taken any pension benefits yet. She is 58 and says her OPS 
provided for a normal retirement date of 60. The regulators guidance will take these and 
other relevant matters into account.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms As acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Ms As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms A within 90 days of the date 
BRG receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG 
to pay Ms A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Further information - some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available 
on our website under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating 
compensation in investment complaints'
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, I consider that Better Retirement Group Ltd should pay Ms A compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £300. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on her.
Ms A felt that this element of my award was insufficient. Ive reflected on what shes said, 
taking into account her circumstances, including the fact that she has confirmed she had no 
firm plans to retire yet. Im satisfied the award is in keeping with our usual approach and so I 
wont be changing it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms As complaint. As such, I require 
Better Retirement Group Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman