DRN-1709140
 
The complaint
Mr S says that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender gave him loans that he couldn't 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr S took out 6 loans with Mr Lender between February 2016 and August 2018. The first 
four loans were repayable in instalments of between 3 and 6 months. There was a break of 
around two years between loans 3 and 4 and loans 5 and 6 were repayable in 12 monthly 
instalments. Mr S said he was struggling with his finances and borrowing from other short 
term lenders.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didn't recommend that it should be upheld. He 
thought that the checks that Mr Lender did for loans 1 to 3 were proportionate to the 
amounts being lent and what Mr S said about his circumstances at the time. He thought that 
the gap between loans 3 and 4 of around 2 years was enough to break the chain of lending. 
He considered that the checks for loans 4 to 6 were also proportionate and that Mr Lender 
didn't need to verify what Mr S was saying about his finances.
Mr S didn't agree and replied to say in summary that his credit file would've shown the 
difficulties he was in and that he had other loans around this time which had been upheld as 
unaffordable by this service. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that the loans in the first chain of 
lending, loans one to three, should not have been provided. I have looked at the information 
gathered, including income and expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there 
isnt enough to say Mr Lender should not have provided these loans to Mr S. Mr S said his 
income was between £2800 and £3000 for these loans and his expenses were around 
£1300. Based on what Mr S said and what Mr Lender knew about his circumstances I think 
these loans would have looked affordable.
There was then a significant break in the lending and this would suggest that any short term 
difficulties had passed. I agree that it would be right to treat Mr S as a new borrower and 
there was nothing in his previous borrowing history that would suggest he struggled to repay 
what he had borrowed. Looking at the figures Mr S gave for his income and outgoings for 
these loans, he said his income was £3500 and his outgoings were between £2000 and 
£2200. The repayments were a small proportion of his declared disposable income so again 
I think that the checks Mr Lender did were enough.
I haven't seen any further information that shows that Mr Lender was aware of any 
difficulties Mr S was having, or that there was anything in the checks it carried out that 
should have prompted it to investigate Mr S's circumstances any further.
I have taken into account Mr S's points and in particular what he's said about his credit file. It 
is worth saying that the information available to a lender is not the same as a consumer 
might see on a credit report. Sometimes the full extent of the borrowing isn't reported or the 
information isn't up to date. From what I can see there was nothing in Mr S's circumstances 
at the time or the information available to Mr Lender that would have alerted it to the 
problems Mr S says he was having.
I don't doubt what Mr S is saying and I understand that he feels these loans should be 
upheld because of his experience with other lenders at the same time. But each complaint is different and I must decide this complaint on the basis of the information that was available 
to Mr Lender and on that basis I think  it was reasonable to lend. If the lending had continued 
or Mr S's borrowing pattern had been different I may have expected Mr Lender to do more.    
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman