DRN-3980245
The complaint
Miss K complains about Dynamo Cover Limiteds administration of her 
Roadside Assistance Insurance Policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss K originally took out the policy through a price comparison website around April 
2020. Ive seen screenshots that show the journey Miss K wouldve taken when 
selecting the policy and this included a clear link to download the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID). 
This also included a screen highlighting the key features of the policy  which 
includes that if a temporary repair is not available, the policy covers the vehicle to be 
taken to the nearest suitable garage within 20 miles of a breakdown. So, Im satisfied 
Miss K had sufficient information about the policy at inception. 
Miss K also registered an online account, where she would have had further access 
to this documentation.
The policy then renewed in March 2021 and March 2022. Dynamo needed to ensure 
that Miss K was given appropriate information about the policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so she could make an informed decision about whether it 
continued to meet her needs prior to renewal.
Ive reviewed the renewal invites and the renewal confirmation emails sent to Miss K. 
The renewal confirmation from Dynamo details that policy documents are attached 
but I cant see this includes an IPID, as Miss K has said. 
However, I can see the renewal invites directed Miss K to check her documents 
online via a link included. So, Miss K wouldve had access to this information through 
her online account before the policy renewed.
So having reviewed the information available, Im satisfied Dynamo have acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman