DRN-3448152
The complaint
Mr M (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete proper affordability checks before approving his 
Safety Net facility. 
What happened
Mr M approached SNC for a SafetyNet facility in September 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr M was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr M was initially given a facility with a £200 limit in September 2018. His limit was 
increased on a further three occasions with his final increase taking Mr Ms credit limit to 
£320 by January 2019. 
SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service the balance on the facility was fully repaid 
on 24 August 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and he though SNC shouldnt have 
granted the facility. Firstly, the adjudicator thought that SNC had overestimated Mr Ms 
income by including some bank transfers whereas the adjudicator thought the income Mr M 
had declared to SNC was a more accurate reflection of his actual income. 
He also said there were signs of financial difficulty because Mr M had some recently 
returned direct debts, an outstanding high cost short term loan and was spending in the 
adjudicators view significant amounts each month on betting websites. 
Mr Ms representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mr M to allow his representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Mr Ms representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to.
The approach SNC takes to verify with a consumer is reasonable and has his privacy 
and data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns in the ombudsman referral letter. He 
explained SNC had been given more than eight weeks to investigate Mr Ms complaint 
following the representatives complaint and from when we informed SNC that the complaint 
would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr M wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr M this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr M had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Mr Ms finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Ms expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Ms facility was approved for £200 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 each month by carrying 
out a proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Ms income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Ms income and expenditure was, and after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr M could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results read on their own  
wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further 
checks into Mr Ms situation before the facility was approved. 
However, having reviewed the transaction data from his bank statements, I agree with the 
adjudicator that there were signs of financial difficulties before the facility was granted and 
knowing this, SNC shouldnt have granted it. 
Firstly, the income that Mr M declared to SNC as part of his application of £1,800 per month 
seems consistent with the payments I can see from benefits. 
I accept and as the adjudicator pointed out there were a number of bank transfers from 
different parties, but the amounts and payees arent consistent so in this case, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to include these as regular payments, especially in light of the fact that 
Mr M was clear that his main source of income was benefits. 
So, I think that SNC ought to have based Mr Ms income as being £1,800 which means its 
calculated disposable monthly income of £1,867 cant possibly be correct. 
I accept there appears to be minimal living costs, apart from what looks like a payment for 
car insurance as well as other transactions associated with owning a car such as petrol and 
tax. However, there are also quite a few cash withdrawals each month, so it may be 
reasonable to conclude that much of Mr Ms other expenditure was paid in cash. 
But notwithstanding the lack of living costs in Mr Ms bank statements, there were other 
indicators, which have led me to conclude that he was likely having financial difficulties. 
Its worth noting here that CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties 
(which, of course, would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment 
difficulties) may look like  but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So, when reviewing the statements the fact that there are four retuned direct debits in the six 
weeks before the facility was approved, in my mind is a clear indicator that Mr M was 
struggling to meet the credit commitments he already had.
At times, leading up to the facility being approved, Mr M looks to have been spending 
significant amounts of money each month  relative to his income - on unsustainable 
sources such as betting transactions. For example, in August 2008, the month before the 
facility was approved Mr M had spent over £1,500 on such transactions. 
I accept that in July 2018, Mr M hadnt spent as much on these transactions, but as the 
amounts he was spending on such transactions increased to a level that meant almost all of 
Mr Ms income was being spent on such transactions, I dont think SNC could confidently 
believe that the facility was affordable even with an estimated payment of £20 - when taking 
into account the living costs that Mr M likely had on top of the ones that can be seen within 
the transaction data. 
Im therefore upholding Mr Ms complaint in full and I dont think SNC shouldve approved the 
facility.  Ive outlined below what SNC needs to do in order to put things right for Mr M. Putting things right
SNC shouldnt have approved the facility for Mr M and Ive outlined below what it needs to 
do in order to put things right for him. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the start.
B) Treat all payments Mr M has made towards his account since it opened as though 
they had been repayments towards the outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr M wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
D) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ms credit file 
from when the account was opened.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit should put things right for Mr M as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman