DRN-3625072
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance.
What happened
Mr H had a Lloyds home insurance policy. In January or February 2022, a neighbour told 
him there was an alarming dip in Mr Hs roof. Mr H thought this might have been caused by 
storms in November and December 2021, and he made a claim on his Lloyds policy.
Lloyds appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said: The main 
roof has partially collapsed due to failure of the ridge beam. The roof structure has failed 
and the whole roof will need renewing with new timber structure. However, he concluded: 
it is our considered opinion that the damage claimed has not been as the result of Storm 
Damage. Instead, the surveyor said the evidence suggested the roof had been in a poor 
state for several years.
Based on this report, Lloyds declined the claim. It told Mr H the damage to the roof wasnt 
caused by an insured peril, such as a storm. Unfortunately, this meant the damage to his 
roof wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr H was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Lloyds to 
settle his claim and refund him the cost of his new roof. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Lloyds report showed the damage to the roof wasnt caused by a storm and was more 
likely to be a long-term issue. He thought Lloyds decision to decline Mr Hs claim was 
reasonable.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most policies, Mr Hs cover only makes Lloyds liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events listed in his policy. 
Mr H believes his roof was damaged by a storm. Page 7 of his policy booklet shows hes 
covered for this. It defines a storm as: A period of violent weather defined as: strong winds 
with gusts of at least 55mph, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or hail or snow of such 
intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, we ask 
three questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Mr H isnt exactly sure when the roof was damaged as he was only alerted to it by a 
neighbour in January or February 2022. Given the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
I can understand why Mr H might not have noticed the damage to his roof himself. 
Ive checked the local weather records for the area, as well as the Met Offices information 
for the 2021/22 storm season. This shows:
Storm Arwen hit the UK on 26/27 November 2021. 
Storm Barra hit the UK on 6/7 December 2021.
Storm Malik hit the UK on 29 January 2022.
All these named storms were characterised by high winds. The closest weather station to Mr 
H didnt record 55mph winds on any of the above dates, however there were gusts of up to 
49mph during storm Arwen and 43mph during storm Malik. This weather station is nine miles 
from Mr Hs home so its possible stronger gusts hit his home. Lloyds hasnt argued that the 
weather conditions didnt meet the policy definition so Im happy to consider the other two 
questions.
These are key. Lloyds says the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage and, 
in fact, suggests this wasnt storm damage at all. Instead, its surveyors report suggested a 
combination of heavy concrete tiles and poor workmanship (no barge boards present 
poor finishing at the verge and the front fascia coming away) caused the ridge beam to fail 
over several years. 
The surveyor said Google Street View photos of Mr Hs home supported this conclusion. 
These photos were taken in August 2008, July 2012, and October 2014, and all appear to 
show a pronounced dip in Mr Hs roof. 
I recognise that the photos were, of course, taken from ground level so arent close-up 
photos of the roof. However, they do appear to show Mr Hs roof has had an uneven 
horizon for several years, particularly when compared with his neighbours roof. In my 
opinion, the report plus these photos support the surveyors conclusion that the collapsed 
roof is a longer term issue.  
Mr H provided a report from his own roofing expert, dated 26 May 2022. This says:
This property required a complete new roof due to damage that, in my opinion, 
could only have been caused by extremely strong wind or snow loading. As there 
had been severe storms prior to being asked to inspect the roof, I believe this is the 
result of one or more of those storms where high winds have occurred.
I dont think this is enough to contradict Lloyds expert. As Ive said above, the recorded 
winds were less than 50mph. Id be surprised if they alone were strong enough to collapse 
the roof beam. There was no significant snowfall recorded within 25 miles of Mr Hs home 
during any of the storms, so I dont think snow loading is a realistic explanation. 
Also, Mr Hs report doesnt explain how winds severe enough to cause the internal ridge 
beam to collapse could have done so without causing any external damage. If the storms 
were the main cause of damage Id expect to see some sign of external damage, for example displaced or broken tiles. The photos taken by Lloyds surveyor dont show this type 
of damage.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the 2021/22 storms were the main cause of the damage 
to the roof. I accept that its possible the storms were the final straw that caused the roof 
beam to crack, but I think its more likely that the underlying damage was due to wear and 
tear and/or a lack of maintenance. Page 44 of Mr Hs policy booklet is clear that this type of 
damage isnt covered: A storm can highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that 
happens gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered.
I recognise that Mr H feels very strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my 
decision. Im also conscious that replacing the roof cost Mr H a very large sum of money. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline Mr Hs claim. I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman