DRN-3207101
The complaint
Mr W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined his claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had an Accident and Injury pet insurance policy with RSA for his dog, S. 
One day S went for a run in the garden and disappeared out of sight. When he came back, 
he had a severe limp. Mr W took him to the vet, who said S needed surgery to repair one of 
his cruciate ligaments. Mr W says he believed the injury mustve been caused by some sort 
of trauma, because S had never shown any sign of a problem with his back legs before. But 
RSA declined Mr Ws claim for the cost of treatment  they said the injury hadnt been 
caused by a witnessed accident or injury. 
Mr W complained to RSA that it wasnt fair to decline his claim just because the accident or 
injury wasnt witnessed. But RSA said their vets had confirmed that a healthy ligament 
wouldnt suddenly rupture without a significant trauma. They said Mr Ws vets had agreed 
that, on the balance of probability, Ss cruciate ligament ruptured as a result of chronic 
disease, as is the case with the majority of dogs. 
Our investigator said that, although the majority of cruciate ruptures may be due to 
degenerative disease, she hadnt seen anything that clearly showed this to be the case for 
S. She noted that, although Mr Ws vet accepted the most likely cause was cruciate disease, 
he didnt rule out an accident either. She was satisfied that Mr W had identified a single 
incident in which S had suffered some kind of sudden and unexpected trauma  and that 
there wasnt a requirement in RSAs policy terms that it had to be witnessed. She said she 
hadnt seen any evidence to suggest thered been previous issues with Ss cruciate 
ligament, which shed expect in the case of a degenerative disease. Without stronger 
evidence to show the rupture was due to illness, she didnt think it was fair of RSA to decline 
Mr Ws claim. She thought they should reimburse him the costs of veterinary treatment for 
this injury, plus 8% interest from the date hed incurred the cost.
RSA disagreed. They said their vets had confirmed that, for a cruciate ligament to rupture in 
a healthy dog, a force equivalent to four times the weight of the animal would be needed. 
They highlighted notes made by Mr Ws vet, saying theyd warned him about the risk that the 
other ligament would also be affected in time. They said this warning was given because the 
vast majority of ruptures are due to degeneration, and up to 60% of the dogs who rupture 
one ligament will rupture the other one as well. 
RSA accepted that it was common for our service to give more weight to the opinion of the 
treating vet over their own, where those opinions differ. But they felt that, in this case, both 
vets were in agreement that this was cruciate disease  not an accident. 
RSA said the policy clearly states that cover is only provided for accidents  and that an 
accident is defined as a sudden, unexpected, specific event that results in an injury to the 
pet. They stressed that running isnt an unexpected event for a dog. Although they couldnt 
exclude the possibility that S stepped into a rabbit hole, they considered this to be very 
unlikely because that type of injury wouldve affected other stabilising ligaments in that area 
of his leg. They said that, on the balance of probability, the rupture was most likely caused 
by degenerative disease  and that this was supported by medical studies. They asked for 
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
RSA must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement not to unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered 
RSAs assessment of Mr Ws claim with this in mind. 
Ive read the wording of Mr Ws policy booklet and insurance schedule carefully. Ive seen 
that hed purchased accident and injury cover for S. The insurance schedule states this 
would cover up to £3,000 of vet fees for each accident, for a period of up to 12 months. The 
policy defines an accident as:
A sudden, unexpected, specific event that results in an injury to the pet.
Mr W feels it was unfair for RSA to turn down his claim on the grounds that thered been no 
witnessed accident or injury, because this isnt a requirement of the policy. He also feels 
strongly that, where neither party can be sure what happened, the insurer shouldnt be 
allowed to use this uncertainty to their advantage. Ive given careful thought to the points 
hes made.
I agree that it wouldnt be fair for an insurer to reject a claim for accident or injury to a dog 
simply because nobody witnessed exactly what happened. In those circumstances wed 
expect the insurer to weigh up all the available information and circumstances to decide 
whether the injury could reasonably be said to have been caused by an accident, as defined 
by the policy. Ive reviewed the information that was available to RSA in this case.
Ive seen the evidence provided by the two vets. They both accept that, in the majority of 
dogs, cruciate ligament ruptures are most likely caused by chronic degenerative disease. 
And both vets say that, on the balance of probability, this was most likely to have been what 
caused Ss cruciate ligament to rupture. Having read Ss medical notes carefully, I havent 
seen any indication that hed previously shown signs of problems with his cruciate ligament. 
Ive considered whether the sudden onset of symptoms is consistent with the gradual 
weakening of a ligament caused by a degenerative condition. 
In their response to Mr Ws complaint, RSA said a weakened ligament that has been 
degenerating over time can rupture suddenly  presenting as sudden, acute lameness. The 
evidence from RSAs vet states that there are often no preceding signs. Their vet goes on to 
say:
The rupture of the degenerated ligament frequently happens during running, 
fetching, however, if these activities would rupture a healthy ligament, every dog 
who runs would rupture their cruciate ligament.
Having reviewed the veterinary evidence, I dont find it unreasonable for RSA to conclude 
that the sudden onset of Ss lameness was, on the balance of probability, most likely to have 
been caused by cruciate disease. That said, Ive seen no evidence showing Ss cruciate ligament had in fact degenerated due 
to disease. I find the point on which both vets are agreed to be that, based on current 
veterinary knowledge, its statistically most likely that this is what happened. The fact that 
something is statistically most likely doesnt necessarily mean thats what did happen in this 
case. So, Ive also thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for RSA to rule out the 
possibility that Ss injury had been caused by an accident.
Ive seen evidence that the vet who first examined the injury to Ss leg said hed been told S 
had run off out of sight after a rabbit - and returned lame on the affected leg. He goes on to 
say:
In the majority of dogs cruciate ruptures are a result of a chronic disease and the 
balance of probability is that this is the case with S, but no one can prove this if a 
dog runs out of sight and returns lame. Who is to say that he didnt put his foot 
down a rabbit hole and this was in fact an accident?
In response, RSAs vet said: 
While stepping into a rabbit hole is not excluded, this is very unlikely, because if 
the rupture would have happened due to this, other stifle stabilising ligaments 
would have been affected as well I would expect to see damage to the 
surrounding ligaments and structures as well (lateral collateral, medial collateral, 
caudal cruciate ligament, damage to the retinaculum). The question would be, 
why has only this one ligament ruptured? The one ligament of all the ligaments in 
this leg known to suffer a degenerative process that results in its gradual 
weakening? It doesnt make medical sense.
Having reviewed the evidence that was available to RSA about Ss injury in detail, Im unable 
to say they acted unreasonably by declining Mr Ws claim. I accept that a dog could suffer an 
accident or injury whilst out of sight - and that a lack of witnesses wouldnt rule out the 
possibility of a successful claim being made. But, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not 
persuaded that the evidence supports the suggestion that Ss injury was the result of an 
accident in this case. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr W.
I said I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I invited both parties to send me any 
further information or comments theyd like me to consider.
RSA said they had nothing further to add.
 
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said RSAs vet talked about a force 
equivalent to four times the weight of the animal being needed to cause this injury. He 
thought it would be quite easy for a dog to achieve this kind of force through its leg when 
running at speed or falling any distance. He said he lives in an area with lots of farmers 
fields and rabbit holes  and that he didnt agree that falling down a rabbit hole wouldnt 
provide that amount of force. 
Mr W said RSAs claim form had included a question asking whether, if the claim was for a 
cruciate rupture, it was solely the result of a trauma. He said his vet had ticked yes, because 
Ss breed had no predisposition to cruciate disease. He felt this showed his vets initial 
assessment was that the rupture was due to trauma  but that RSA had subsequently 
strong-armed him into changing his opinion. Mr W said nobody could say the injury was 
definitely due to trauma because there are no clinical signs or diagnostic tests either way. 
His vet said its more likely than not due to illness, but he couldnt be sure. He felt it to be 
wrong that the benefit of that doubt should fall with the insurer, rather than the customer.Mr W stressed that RSAs terms and conditions made no reference to an accident having to 
be witnessed. He said that, from what he could see, theres no way they would pay out on a 
cruciate rupture claim. He felt RSA should have made it very clear in their policy documents 
that they dont provide cover for cruciate ruptures, because this might have affected his 
decision about which policy to buy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr W for taking the time to provide further comments. Ive looked again at the 
evidence provided by both vets in light of what hes said. But having done that, Im not 
persuaded that I should depart from my provisional findings.
 
Im satisfied that RSAs vet properly considered whether Ss injury could have been caused 
by falling down a rabbit hole. But the vets expert opinion was that, if that had been the case, 
damage would be expected to the surrounding ligaments and structures of the leg as well as 
the cruciate ligament.
 
Ive seen evidence showing that, when Mr Ws vet completed RSAs claim form, he ticked a 
box indicating Ss cruciate rupture was solely the result of trauma. And that he subsequently 
provided further clarification, which I set out in my provisional decision. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Mr Ws vet was strong-armed into changing his opinion. Im satisfied 
that, when RSA asked for further details about the injury, he simply clarified what he could  
and couldnt  definitively say about the cause of Ss cruciate rupture. And that the injury 
was most likely to have been the result of chronic illness.
 
Im not persuaded that there are no circumstances in which a successful claim could be 
made for a ruptured cruciate ligament under this policy. But for a successful claim to be 
made, there must be some evidence indicating that an insured event has taken place. In the 
absence of any witnesses seeing or hearing what happened to S, RSA had no option but to 
rely on the expert opinions of the two vets. In this case, I cant say that it was unreasonable 
for RSA to conclude that the expert evidence didnt support Mr Ws claim that Ss cruciate 
rupture was caused by an accident. And for that reason, I dont find them to have treated him 
unfairly by declining the claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman