DRN-3367379
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reduced the credit limit 
on his credit card. Mr T also complains theres no appeals process to reinstate the existing 
limit. 
What happened
Mr T has held a Barclaycard since the 1990s. The last purchase Mr T made with his 
Barclaycard was in 2018. 
In September 2020 Barclaycard wrote to Mr T to explain it was reducing his credit limit from 
£15,500 to £2,000. There was no appeals process and Mr T asked Barclaycard to close his 
account. 
Mr T complained but Barclaycard didnt agree it had acted unfairly. An investigator at this 
service looked at Mr Ts complaint but didnt feel Barclaycard had treated him unfairly. Mr T 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already set out the relevant section of Barclaycards terms and 
conditions that allows it to change a credit limit. Barclaycard says it takes factors including a 
cardholders circumstances and their account usage and history into account when deciding 
what credit limit to provide. The terms also say Barclaycard can review the limit and let the 
cardholder know if its changed. 
Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted in line with its account terms when reviewing and 
reducing Mr Ts credit limit. Mr T has confirmed he understands Barclaycards actions are 
covered by its terms. 
In his response to the investigator, Mr T said that Barclaycards decision failed to pay due 
regard to his interests and was unfair. Mr T says Barclaycards decision shouldve been 
based on his circumstances and his account usage was irrelevant. Whilst I understand why 
Mr T feels this way, I havent been persuaded it was unfair for Barclaycard to reduce his 
credit limit. 
The terms set out the basis of Mr Ts relationship with Barclaycard so we cant disregard 
what they say. Ive considered whether Barclaycards fairly relied on its terms in this case 
and Im satisfied it has. Theres nothing in Barclaycards terms that says it will continue to 
provide the same credit limit. Mr T has held his credit card since the 1990s and its likely the 
limit has increased over time. In the same way, Barclaycard can reduce a credit limit so long 
as it does so fairly and in line with its terms. 
Mr T has said he feels the decision shouldve reflected his circumstances. But Barclaycard is 
a business and free to use its commercial discretion when deciding what products and 
services to provide. In this case, Barclaycard says it reviewed Mr Ts account and took the 
decision to reduce his credit limit by giving notice. Barclaycard says Mr T wasnt regularly 
using his account and hadnt made a purchase for around 20 months. I dont agree it was 
unfair or unreasonable for Barclaycard to review Mr Ts account and take the decision to 
reduce the credit limit it was willing to offer  in line with its account terms and conditions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but as I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard acted unfairly 
when it reduced his credit limit Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman