DRN-1901534
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mr S complain that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to 
amend two pension policies to reflect a change in the marital status of Mr S.
What happened
The late Mr S opened two pension plans with Standard Life in 1989. When the plans were 
set up they provided retirement benefits for Mr S, and following his death they would provide 
benefits for his then wife. In 1991 Mr S wrote to Standard Life to advise that he had 
separated from his wife, that he was intending a divorce to take place shortly, and asking 
that his new partner (later to become his wife) be added to the plans as the second 
annuitant.
Standard Life responded to that request around three months later in June 1991. In that 
letter Standard Life explained that it would be unable to change the terms of Mr S's pension 
plans, and that his forthcoming divorce would have no bearing on the payments to the 
second named annuitant following his death. It appears that this response was not received 
by Mr S and was returned as "addressee not known" later that year.
The following year Standard Life was contacted about this matter by Mr S's financial advisor. 
Standard Life repeated its earlier reply that it was unable to alter the terms of Mr Ss pension 
plans.
Mr S sadly died in September 2019. Following his death Standard Life commenced paying 
the benefits of his pension plans to his ex-wife as per the terms of the original policy. The 
new wife of Mr S believed that these payments would be made to her and as a result is 
facing financial hardship.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didn't think Standard Life 
had done anything wrong in making the pension payments to Mr S's ex-wife. She thought 
that was what Standard Life was required to do under the terms of the two pension plans. So 
she didn't think the complaint should be upheld.
The executors of the estate of the late Mr S didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Standard Life has provided us with details of the pension policies that Mr S originally took 
out in 1989, and with copies of its correspondence with Mr S and his financial advisor in 
1991 and 1992. I haven't seen anything that makes me think there are more recent 
communications between Mr S and Standard Life that I need to consider.When Mr S first applied for the pension plans he nominated his now ex-wife as the second 
annuitant. That meant that she would receive pension benefits from Standard Life if she 
survived Mr S. Standard Life says that, when determining the benefits that would be payable 
in the future, its actuaries took account of specific information about Mr S's wife at that time. 
The pension benefits were therefore based on things such as the age, and health, of both Mr 
S and his then wife. 
When Mr S and his wife separated he wrote to Standard Life to ask for changes to be made 
to his pension policies, and in particular for his then partner to replace his ex-wife as the 
second annuitant. I can see that Standard Life did reply to that request, but it seems very 
likely that reply wasn't received by Mr S. Standard Life explained that the contract Mr S 
had entered into in 1989 couldn't be varied and so his ex-wife would remain as the second 
annuitant.
I might have been concerned that it seems Mr S didn't receive that response from Standard 
Life, and so might have thought his request had been completed. But I can see that his 
financial advisor wrote to Standard Life the following year, making the same request. So that 
would make me think that Mr S was aware that his ex-wife remained as the second 
annuitant. And I think the explanation Standard Life gave to Mr S's financial advisor made it 
clear that it wasn't possible to replace his ex-wife as the second annuitant.
When Mr S sadly died last year, Standard Life was required to act in accordance with its 
original agreement with Mr S. That meant that Standard Life needed to pay pension benefits 
to Mr S's ex-wife as the second annuitant. I don't think it has done anything wrong by doing 
so.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr S's widow. It seems that she was 
expecting to receive these benefits. And I can understand why it seems unfair that those 
benefits are being paid to Mr S's ex-wife from whom he was divorced almost 30 years ago. 
But I'm afraid that those are the terms of the pension policies that Mr S took out in 1989, and 
neither Standard Life nor Mr S were able to make subsequent changes to them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman