DRN-4498737
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected his claim against it under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. A representative is assisting Mr P with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr P bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded with a loan from BPF, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
made by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr P alleges that the 
supplier misled Mr P into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought that there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to persuade him that the system had been mis-represented to Mr P so he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld in Mr Ps favour. 
Mr P (through his representative) disagreed for the following reasons: 
He said that the sale was conducted based on verbal representations made by the 
supplier. 
While the suppliers promotional material changed by December 2014 (the time of 
sale), earlier promotional material did suggest the systems were self-funding.  The 
representative believes the salesperson was still selling the system as self-funding. 
Mr P also informed us that he didnt complain earlier as he didnt know he could 
complain.
Mr Ps representative also provided details of another complaint which was upheld in 
favour of the consumer where there were no sales documentation  they felt that 
case had similar circumstances to Mr Ps so ought to also be upheld. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint, and 
considering neither party has disagreed with this, I dont need to consider this any further. 
I think the CMC and BPF ought now to be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-
established approach, as our investigators have previously set this out for them. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out again in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that neither BPF nor Mr P have been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time of sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Ps testimony. I would add that 
while there may be many complaints where point of sale paperwork is no longer available 
(like the one Mr Ps representative has referred to), each case is decided on the individual 
merits of that case. Ive explained why I havent upheld Mr Ps case below. 
Mr P (through his representative) said in his letter of claim that he was led to believe that the 
system would pay for itself due to the payments he would receive from the Feed in Tariff 
(FIT). The letter later says he thought the finance would be covered by a combination of the 
FIT payments and savings made on his energy bills. 
When Mr P spoke directly with our investigator, he added that he was told he needed to 
agree to the purchase immediately as the FIT rate would be changing so in order to qualify 
for the current FIT rate  he needed to agree to the purchase straight away. He said his 
main motivation was to sign up for the FIT rate in place at the time. Mr P says he was told 
his electricity would be free during the day. Mr P doesnt mention any specific benefit 
amounts or mention any specific figures he was given at the time of sale about the systems 
likely performance. 
As set out by our investigator, there is no evidence from the time of sale that the supplier 
was promoting the systems as being self-funding when Mr P bought his system. Additionally, 
the supplier appeared to be trading for many years after Mr P bought his system and at no 
point did Mr P raise these issues while the supplier was still trading.  
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ps testimony bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
available in this case. But having done so, like our investigator, Im not satisfied that the 
system was mis-represented to Mr P on the basis it would be self-funding or that Mr P relied 
on a statement like this, and this was the main reason he purchased the system. 
Mr Ps representative says that while the promotional material around the time of sale did not 
advertise the system as self-funding, they feel the salesperson may still have been selling it 
as self-funding. But theyve provided no evidence to support that belief other than Mr Ps 
testimony. 
But Mr Ps testimony isnt very specific or detailed regarding what exactly he was promised  
other than mentioning that he thought the system benefits would cover the finance. For 
example, he doesnt specify whether he thought the system would be self-funding over the 
term of the loan, or from the outset or during the lifetime of the system. In order for me to 
uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the salesperson did more than make 
generalist comments about how well these solar panels usually perform  or that they 
promoted the system to him - thats the nature of selling items. 
Id need to be satisfied that the salesperson made the specific misrepresentation to Mr P, 
that his system would be self-funding within a specified period, that he relied on this 
misrepresentation and bought the system on that basis, but this has turned out to be untrue. 
Mr P seems to stress that his main motivation for buying this system was to obtain the FIT 
rate in place at the time. As set out by our investigator, the supplier was also trading for 
many years after the sale and if Mr Ps benefits was significantly less than what he had been 
promised or what he expected, I would have expected him to raise that  and Ive seen no 
evidence that he did. Based on what Ive seen, Im afraid, Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence that the 
supplier made a specific misrepresentation, or that Mr P relied mainly on that 
misrepresentation to buy the system which would be needed to uphold the complaint.  
Ive carefully considered Mr Ps testimony, but each case is decided on the individual merits 
of that case. On balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr P has mentioned that he felt pressured to proceed with the sale. But I note that Mr P was 
given a cancellation period and he didnt try to cancel within that period. If he was unhappy 
to proceed with the sale, I would have expected him to have utilised this option. Pressure 
can also be subjective, and Mr P hasnt provided much testimony as to why he felt like he 
had to proceed with the sale. Overall, Im not satisfied that he was pressured into buying the 
system. 
Mr Ps representative says that BPF didnt check Mr Ps creditworthiness before offering him 
the loan. However, BPF says it did do sufficient affordability checks. It also seems like Mr P 
maintained the payments on the loan for many years after the sale, so it doesnt look like 
theres any evidence the loan was unaffordable. 
Mr Ps representative has also added that Mr P wasnt given a cancellation period. However, 
the cancellation period was set out in Mr Ps offer letter and pre-contractual information from 
BPF. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr P wanted or tried to cancel and was unable to 
do so. 
Ive also considered what Mr Ps representative has said about the undisclosed commission. 
But, even if BPF should have said more about the commission, BPF has told us the 
commission was only £200. Its amount is unlikely to have impacted on Mr Ps decision to 
proceed with the finance agreement. I also consider it unlikely that a court would find the 
payment of commission would result in an unfair relationship under S140A Consumer Credit 
Act. 
So, these issues do not affect my view of the complaint. 
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr P 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think BPFs decision to not accept the claim was unfair. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman