DRN-4418251
The complaint
Ms C complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market (Quid Market) advanced 
her loans without carrying out the correct affordability checks. 
What happened
Ms C was granted six loans and Ive outlined a summary of her borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
daterepayment 
period 
(months)highest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £225.00 17/07/2013 01/10/2023 29 days £342.21
break in lending 
2 £300.00 01/05/2018 17/05/2018 3 £135.83
3 £1,000.00 30/07/2018 29/08/2018 5 £355.29
4 £600.00 12/12/2018 15/05/2019 4 £256.06
5 £500.00 19/08/2019 20/09/2021 4 £204.44
6 £800.00 28/10/2019 14/08/2020 6 £242.51
Following Ms Cs complaint, Quid Market issued its final response letter, and it didnt uphold 
the complaint. Although, as a gesture of goodwill and in full and final settlement of the 
complaint, it offered to remove these loans from Ms Cs credit file. Ms C didnt accept the 
offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
In the adjudicators most recent assessment he partly upheld Ms Cs complaint, about loans 
five and six only. The adjudicator concluded for these loans further checks ought to have 
been carried out because before loan 5 was granted Ms C recently defaulted on another 
account. Had further checks been made, Quid Market wouldve likely discovered Ms C was 
already paying a number of other pay day lenders. This in turn led him to conclude, the loan 
repayments werent sustainable. 
Quid Market didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Ms Cs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C. The adjudicator concluded that 
this didnt apply in Ms Cs complaint, and I agree considering the loan history and the break 
in lending between loans one and two. 
Quid Market was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay
her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Quid Market didnt respond to the adjudicators most recent assessment and Ms C hasnt 
disagreed with the adjudicators decision to not uphold loans 1, 2, 3 and 4. It therefore 
seems these loans are no longer in dispute and so I say no more about them. 
I also dont know why, because no response was provided, as to why Quid Market didnt 
agree with the adjudicators assessment to partly uphold the complaint. As a result of that, 
this decision will focus on whether Quid Market did all it ought to have done before 
advancing loans five and six. 
Loans 5 and 6 
For these loans Quid Market asked Ms C about her income and expenditure details. For 
both loans Ms C declared she worked full time and received a monthly salary of £2,300. 
Quid Market says this income was electronically verified. 
In terms of outgoings, Ms C declared these were £1,000 per month for loan five and £950 
per month for loan six. These costs were declared for credit card / loan repayments, 
mortgage / rent, utilities and other monthly outgoings. Based solely on what Ms C declared, 
she had more than enough disposable income to afford these loan repayments. 
Before each loan was granted a credit search (which I go on to below) was carried out and 
as a result of this search Quid Market made adjustments to Ms Cs monthly outgoings. For 
loan five it concluded these were likely around £1,032 per month and £1,747 per month 
when loan six was approved. A copy of the credit check results that Quid Market received from the credit reference 
agency have been provided. So, Ive looked at these to see if there was anything contained 
within it that ought to have either led Quid Market to have conducted further checks and / or 
declined the application for the loan. 
The results showed for loan five that Ms C had 12 active accounts when this loan was 
approved. It knew Ms C owed other creditors nearly £14,000 (excluding the mortgage). So 
superficially, there wasnt anything that demonstrated Ms C was reliant on this sort of 
borrowing. 
But it did know that Ms C had defaulted on a mail order account in July 2019, so only one 
month before loan five was approved and at the time the account defaulted Ms C was 
around £400 over the prescribed credit limit. Clearly, in my view, this was an indicator that 
Ms C was struggling to keep on top of her existing credit commitments. 
Ms Cs credit file also showed that she was a regular user of payday loans, she had settled 
six such loans within the previous four months before loan five. Which meant Quid Market 
was aware, although Ms C wasnt always borrowing from itself, Ms C was showing that she 
was still seeking out other credit. This could point towards her being in financial difficulties or 
at the very least, she was struggling to meet her existing commitments without having to 
borrow further. 
Taking account of the total lending history and the information contained within the credit 
report I have concluded  like the adjudicator, that Quid Market ought to have been 
sufficiently concerned that it shouldve carried out further checks, which ought to have 
included obtaining a full understanding of Ms Cs financial position. These extra checks 
ought to have been carried out not just before loan five was granted but also when loan six 
was granted. 
Quid Market couldve gone about gathering this further information a number of ways, it 
couldve asked for evidence of her income such as through a wage slip and in terms of her 
outgoings it couldve asked for copies of her bills or any other documentation it felt it was 
necessary to obtain. Or, as the adjudicator has done, Quid Market couldve asked to review 
Ms Cs bank statements. 
Had further checks been carried out before loan five was granted I think Quid Market 
wouldve likely discovered that Ms C had four outstanding payday loans and one outstanding 
high-cost instalment loan  the cost per month to service these five loans came to over 
£1,000 each month  before any other living costs and other credit commitments were 
considered.  
So, I do think, given the credit check results and the other outstanding payday loans that 
Quid Market ought to have known about this shouldve led it to conclude it was unlikely that 
Ms C was in a position to be able to take on any more high-cost credit loans and repay them 
sustainably. 
And Ive also considered the bank statements from when loan six was advanced and a 
similar position is shown. This time Ms C had three outstanding payday loans and a high-
cost credit loan costing over £765 each month. And while, Quid Market wasnt to know this 
at the time, shortly after loan six was advanced, Ms C was granted another two payday 
loans  which is further indication, that overall, her position hadnt significantly changed 
since loan five. So, I am also upholding her complaint about loan six. I am upholding Ms Cs complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Ive outlined below what 
Quid Market needs to do in order to put things right for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans five and six to Ms C, as Im satisfied it ought not 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quid Market shouldnt have given Ms C loans 5 and 6.
A. Quid Market should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. It should then calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quid Market should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D. Quid Market should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Cs credit 
file in relation to loans five and six. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to deduct tax from this interest. Quid Market
should give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am upholding Ms Cs complaint in part. 
Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market should put things right for Ms C as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman