DRN-2844203
The complaint
A partnership Ill refer to as S have complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance 
claim, after initially telling them they were covered. 
Mr and Mrs S have brought the complaint to us on Ss behalf. 
For ease of reading, reference to NFU will also include its agent.  
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. They contacted NFU to enquire 
about claiming after they realised they might be impacted by the Governments response to 
Covid-19. NFU indicated that S would be covered if they were required to close by the 
Government. 
A few days later, NFU said it had reviewed the wording in the policy and didnt think it 
provided cover in the circumstances of Ss claim, as S hadnt closed due to an incident 
within the immediate vicinity or within one mile of their premises. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, S brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint and thought NFU had fairly said the claim wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy, as Ss closure wasnt due to an incident within the 
immediate vicinity or one mile of their premises. He referred to the findings in the High Court 
judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case to explain why the policy 
didnt provide cover. 
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said the comments our 
investigator had referred to from the High Courts findings were obiter dictum and the 
wording of the policy was ambiguous.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on S. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFU has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
The relevant section of Ss policy is an endorsement on the Policy Schedule, which states: 
 
Action of Competent Authority - Prevention of Access 
 
WE will pay for loss of INCOME arising from an incident in the immediate vicinity 
or within a one mile radius of the PREMISES where access is hindered or 
prevented by the action of any civil or statutory authority or by order of 
the government or any public authority for more than 24 consecutive hours. 
 
The most WE will pay in any one PERIOD OF INSURANCE is £50,000. 
 
When reaching a fair and reasonable decision, Im required to take account of the law. I think 
the FCAs test case - which started in the High Court and proceeded, on appeal, to the 
Supreme Court - is relevant to Ss complaint.  
 
The High Court considered a similar term to that within Ss policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed.  
 
The High Court judgment said that the action taken by the Government in the regulations 
introduced on 21 and 26 March did qualify, under policy terms such as the one above, as 
action taken by a relevant authority. However, paragraph 405 of the judgment says: 
 
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of 
the clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. It may amount to a 
state of affairs but it is too geographically dispersed, variegated, prolonged and 
non-specific to amount to an incident. Saying that the pandemic is everywhere 
does not mean that it is present at particular insured premises and certainly does 
not mean that it amounts to an incident occurring within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises it is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in 
the radius with the disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
Paragraphs 406 to 407 of the judgment say: 
 
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or 
incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the cover 
is even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the incident 
to occur in the vicinity of the insured premises 
 
It follows that there is no cover under [this type of] clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic. 
 
Even if S were correct that the comments referred to are obiter dictum, I see no reason to 
depart from the judgment as I think the endorsement was intended to relate to incidents that 
were limited to the local vicinity of an insureds premises. The Government response to the 
national pandemic, which caused Ss closure, was not in response to a localised incident. As 
such, I dont think the endorsement provides cover for Ss claim. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to S, but I dont think I can fairly 
require NFU to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman