DRN-1617240
The complaint
Mr A complains about the premium he has been charged by Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited (Admiral) on renewal of his motor insurance policy after he had a motor accident 
which Admiral has accepted wasnt a fault claim.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr A was involved in a collision with another vehicle. Initially the third party 
insurer (TPI) didnt accept the third party was responsible for the accident. 
Mr As motor insurance policy with Admiral came up for renewal in March 2019. He was 
initially quoted a premium of £834.40 (reduced after discussion to £763.30), as against his 
previous years premium of £365.20. Mr A questioned Admiral about the increase in 
premium, given that he had a protected no claims discount (NCD). In October 2019 Admiral 
wrote to Mr A as follows:
If we get admission of Liability, we would take back the strike against your [NCD] and we 
would look to reimburse the correct amount of premium.
If you get an admission of liability you would need to call customer services and they would 
alter the premium accordingly.
Later in October 2019, Admiral recovered its outlay on the accident from TPI, and so Mr As 
claim was recorded as non-fault. Mr A expected his premium to be adjusted in accordance 
with Admirals previous letter.
However, Admiral said its policy was to rate premiums on all accidents, incidents, thefts or 
losses regardless of fault or if a claim was made. So Mr As claim being changed to non-fault 
didnt result in any reduction in premium. His NCD had been reinstated; but as this was 
already protected this didnt mean any premium change.
Mr A complained to Admiral. However it said:
the way it rated premiums was company policy and wouldnt change;
its October letter didnt promise him a refund if his NCD was reinstated. It only said it 
would look to reimburse the correct amount of premium and Customer Services 
would alter the premium accordingly. However as his NCD had always been 
protected no adjustment or reimbursement was due: and
Mr A had said he had been offered cheaper quotes by other insurers. Admiral 
wouldnt alter its premium, but would allow Mr A to cancel his policy if he wished, 
paying only for time on cover, but no other cancellation fees.
Mr A didnt accept the offer to cancel and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said he had 
reviewed Admirals underwriting tables. From this he was satisfied that in accordance with 
Admirals underwriting policies at the time, the premium quoted at renewal wouldnt have 
reduced if the claim had been treated as non-fault at that time.
The fact that the premium had increased since the previous year was due to a number of 
other reasons which werent limited to the claim. While the investigator could see that Mr A 
might have thought from the October letter that he would receive a refund after the claim 
was settled as non-fault, it only said that it would reimburse the correct amount of premium.
While he understood Mr As frustration, it wasn't normally within the remit of this service to 
comment on how an insurer decided to manage risk, and price their policies, as these were 
commercial decisions.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that:
when, in March 2019, he queried why his premium had gone up by over 125%, he 
was told that as TPI was denying liability his claim was being treated as a fault claim 
- hence the high increase. This clearly indicated that a non-fault claim carried a lower 
premium;
Admirals October 2019 letter was sent after a phone conversation when he had 
asked about a refund. At no time was he told Admirals rates were the same for fault 
and non-fault claims. The representative he spoke to knew he had a protected NCD. 
So reimburse the correct amount of premium could only refer to a change from fault 
to non-fault; 
on insurance comparison sites other insurers quoted much higher rates for applicants 
with fault claims as against non-fault claims; and
he wasnt convinced, on the evidence of his earlier phone calls with Admirals staff, 
that it didnt rate premiums differently for fault and non-fault claims, and didnt think 
Admiral was treating him honestly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information Admiral has supplied from its underwriting department. From 
this, like the investigator, I accept that its underwriting policy at the time Mr A renewed his 
insurance meant that if the previous claim had been recorded then as non-fault, the premium 
he was offered wouldnt have been reduced. 
The Admiral representatives he spoke to then, and in his October phone conversation, didnt 
make this clear. I think it would have been better if Admirals policy had been explained to 
him then. It wasnt until he complained that Admiral set out its policy clearly. While I 
understand that this raised Mr As suspicions, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that 
Mr A was treated throughout entirely in accordance with Admirals standard underwriting 
policy.
Mr A found when he asked other insurers for quotes that they quoted higher rates when he 
disclosed a fault claim than when he disclosed a non-fault claim. This isnt unusual. 
However, it isnt for us to tell an insurer what premium it should charge for any particular risk 
as long as, for example, it isnt discriminating against customers who are in similar 
situations.
Admiral gave Mr A the opportunity of cancelling his policy early without paying any 
cancelation charges, but he didnt take up this offer. All in all, for the reasons the investigator explained, I dont think Admiral treated Mr A unfairly, and dont require it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman