DRN-2338898
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc allowed a Continuous Payment Authority to be 
taken out of his account. Mr K is represented by his son.
 
What happened
Mr K says a payment of £.99p was taken out of his account from a company I will call A via 
a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). He says his son had asked Bank of Scotland (BoS) 
for a list of payments such as direct debits out of the account but this payment wasnt listed 
and in any event the CPA was set up on an expired account card. Mr K says this may be a 
systemic problem that other consumers may be affected by and unaware about the issue.
BoS says a CPA was set up to A with permission and says it carries on regardless of if the 
account card expires. It says it has no way of telling if there are CPAs set up but says it has 
cancelled this CPA and refunded Mr Ks account with the money. BoS says Mr K should 
contact A and cancel the agreement. It says it has offered Mr K £20 compensation which 
was rejected.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it wasnt our role to comment on what may have happened or if there are wider 
issues regarding CPAs. The investigator didnt think there was a mistake in the payment 
being taken but, in any event, thought it had been refunded.
Mr K didnt accept that view and I asked both sides for further information and asked BoS 
why it offered the compensation if it says it didnt make a mistake.
Mr K has confirmed that the CPA was authorised and maintains there is likely to be an 
impact on others when CPAs are taken from expired account cards. 
BoS says it hasnt paid the compensation but hasnt answered my question.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
A CPA is a recurring payment that a merchant, A in this case, sets up on a customers 
account using the debit or credit card long number. It has to be set up with permission to 
take payments when needed and it does not matter that the card it was set up on expires as 
the CPA continues. So I dont think BoS has made a mistake or acted unfairly by authorising 
the payment to A as Im satisfied it was set up with permission and I dont think it matters 
that the account card expired.
I appreciate BoS was asked about any standing orders and direct debits on the account, but 
Im satisfied there is no evidence here that it was asked to cancel the CPA to A. I dont know 
why BoS didnt have a record of the CPA when it accessed the account, but I dont think that 
matters as the money has been refunded and the CPA was set up by A.
I appreciate Mr K questions if there are wider issues here that may affect other customers. 
But I make clear to Mr K that we can only consider this complaint and that we are not BoSs 
regulator and so we cant direct it for example to automatically cancel a CPA agreement 
when an account card expires. I am sure Mr K appreciates that there are likely to be many 
people that would not want a CPA to end when an account card expires.
I accept that BoS hasnt been clear in its decision to offer £20 compensation in 
circumstances where it says it didnt make a mistake. I cant fairly order compensation here 
as I dont think BoS made a mistake and even if it did, Im satisfied its refunded what I think 
was a relatively small amount of £.99p. I accept that Mr K has previously rejected the 
compensation offer and so I will leave it to him to decide if he wishes to speak to BoS about 
its £20 offer.
Overall, I find this was an authorised CPA and that under that scheme it doesnt matter that 
an account card has expired. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman