DRN-3380887
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-managed his personal pension. 
He says he took 25% of his pension fund in 2015 but when he later asked take the rest, was 
told hed been paid all of the funds and the balance was nil.
What happened
Mr B was sold a pension in 2002. Payments were made into the pension and the value 
increased over the following years.
In 2015 Mr B contacted Aviva to ask to withdraw money from his pension fund and received 
a payment of around £13,000. He contacted Aviva again in 2021 saying he wanted to 
withdraw the rest of his funds but was told he had received full payment in 2015 and there 
was nothing left. 
Mr B complained that his pension had not been managed correctly. He said another firm 
which had been involved with the pension had been taken to court and ordered to pay 
compensation to other customers, and the same problems happened with his pension. 
Aviva told Mr B: 
the other firm he had mentioned wasnt involved in managing his pension and the 
issues hed referred to may have related to a different pension scheme;
the information it held showed another firm was responsible for the sale in 2002;
his pension had not been mis-managed and its records showed he had withdrawn all 
of his pension in full in 2015.
Mr B disagreed but when he referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld. He said Aviva wasnt responsible for the sale of the pension to 
Mr B and he couldnt comment on the actions of the other firms Mr B had referred to. The 
investigator was satisfied the evidence showed the pension had been paid out to Mr B in full 
and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong in relation to this.
Mr B disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says:
the investigator only took on board Avivas comments, didnt given any benefit of the 
doubt to him and didnt get to the bottom of what happened;
the court ruled in favour of others seeking compensation;
he thought he was only taking 25% of his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of concerns, including issues relating to the sale of the pension. 
Aviva wasnt responsible for the sale and that has been considered in another complaint. Im 
only considering what Aviva has done and cant comment on another firms actions.
The crux of the issue for me to consider is what Mr B refers to as the mismanagement of his 
pension. He says he was part of a scheme which was mismanaged by advisers who were 
ordered to pay compensation in the courts. He contacted Aviva because he hadnt received 
any payment in relation to this.
Aviva has explained that Mr Bs pension wasnt managed by the firm he has referred to and 
thinks the case in question may have related to a different scheme. In any event I cant  
consider the actions of another firm, even if it was involved in managing Mr Bs pension. 
Mr B main concern is that when he contacted Aviva in 2021 he was told the value of his 
pension was zero, as hed been paid his funds in full. He says he only withdrew 25% of his 
pensions value in 2015 and the fact theres nothing left shows it wasnt managed properly.
The records we have received from Aviva include annual statements sent to Mr B in the 
years leading up to 2015. These show the value in 2011 was around £13,400. It increased in 
the following years and by 2015 it had a value of around £17,000. Theres nothing to indicate 
the fund wasnt being managed properly. Theres a breakdown showing the value of the 
fund, the amount Aviva deducted for tax, and the net amount paid to Mr B  which matches 
the amount Mr B says he received. Its not clear to me from this why Mr B thought he was 
only taking 25% of his pension. The records show he was paid the full value (less the 
deduction of tax), his pension was marked as settled and the account closed. If there is 
nothing further for Mr B to take, its because he was paid the full value of his pension.
The statements sent to Mr B, together with the taking your pension benefits as a cash lump 
sum document provided when he withdrew his funds, show he was taking the full value of 
this pension. Mr B has explained that he only intended to withdraw some of the funds and 
would still have money in the pot. But the documents we have dont show that and he 
hasnt provided any other evidence to support what he says.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman