DRN-4127930
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Santander UK Plc withdrew its mortgage offer after he had applied to 
port (transfer) his mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on the property he 
wanted to buy.
To settle the complaint, Mr F wants Santander to reimburse the early repayment charge 
(ERC) he paid on redeeming his mortgage, as well as his legal fees and disbursements.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr F being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr F had a mortgage with Santander, which was on a fixed rate product. If the mortgage was 
repaid, in full or in part, during the fixed rate period an ERC would be payable. The mortgage 
terms said that the interest rate product could be transferred onto a new mortgage on 
another property. There was a 90-day window within which Mr F could purchase his new 
property and receive a refund of the ERC, provided his application for a new mortgage was 
successful.
Mr F wanted to move house and had found a buyer for his property. He applied to port his 
mortgage interest rate product with Santander onto a new mortgage so he could buy the 
property he wanted to move to. Because he had less than six months left to run on his 
current interest rate product, Santanders policy was that he could take out a new interest 
rate product and have all the borrowing on the new product, but still be refunded the ERC.
Mr F discussed his mortgage requirements with Santander, and explained that he was 
purchasing the property from his father, and that it was for full market value. Mr F worked in 
the family business as an employee, not a director or shareholder.
Santander issued a mortgage offer on 22 April 2022. Because the solicitors Mr F had 
instructed on his sale and purchase were not on Santanders panel, the bank instructed its 
own solicitors to act for it on the mortgage.
On 9 June 2022 Mr Fs solicitors told Santanders solicitors that the seller of the property 
was not Mr Fs father, but was the limited company for which Mr F worked. Mr Fs father was 
a director of the company.
Mr F sold his property on 23 June 2022, paying an ERC.
Santanders solicitors reported the position concerning the seller of the property to the bank 
on 13 July 2022. However, Santanders lending criteria does not allow it to lend where a 
property is being sold by a limited company to either a director or a person connected with a 
director (which includes children of the director). 
In the circumstances, Santander wasnt able to continue with the mortgage and had to 
withdraw the offer. Ultimately Mr F was able to purchase the property, using alternative 
funding.
Mr F complained. The crux of his complaint is that, although he acknowledges Santander 
has the right to decide its lending criteria, as soon as I said that I was buying from my Dad, 
they should have been prompted to ask me more questions, i.e. is your Dad an individual or 
does your Dad own a Company or whatever else they deem appropriate to make sure that 
exclusion didnt apply....
Mr F wanted Santander to refund the ERC and the fees hed had to pay. Santander didnt 
uphold the complaint, and so Mr F brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened. He noted there had been some delay by Santanders 
solicitors  first in telling Santander about the identity of the seller, and secondly in the 
solicitors letting Mr Fs solicitors know that Santander wasnt able to proceed with the 
mortgage. The investigator thought Santander should pay £200 compensation for any 
inconvenience or distress caused by this.
Santander agreed to this, but Mr F did not and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F has acknowledged, Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. I dont have 
any power to tell Santander who it should lend to, or on what terms; those are matters for 
Santanders commercial judgement. What I have to decide is whether Santander has treated 
Mr F fairly in its application of its lending criteria. 
Ive listened to the call recordings when Mr F was discussing his mortgage requirements with 
Santander. He told the bank that the property he wanted to buy was owned by his father. 
This is reflected in the mortgage application.
The mortgage offer issued on 22 April 2022 says, in Part B, section 1:
We may withdraw this offer if any of the following circumstances apply and, had we 
been aware of the true circumstances, we would not have provided the offer to you
(a) There is a material change to the facts and circumstances relating to your loan 
application 
Im satisfied that the difference between the seller being Mr Fs father as an individual and 
the seller being a limited company controlled by Mr Fs father is a material change to the 
facts and circumstances relating to the loan. Given this, Im satisfied Santander was entitled 
to withdraw the offer.
Mr F says that Santander should have been put on notice when he told them the property 
was owned by his father that it might actually be owned by the limited company run by his 
father, and asked more questions about this. But I disagree. Thats because the family business is a construction company. If this had been a new-build 
property and Mr F had said it was owned by his father, Id have expected Santander to have 
asked more questions about this. But the application forms reflects that Mr F had told 
Santander that the property wasnt a new-build or under construction, and that it was more 
than 50 years old. In the circumstances, there is nothing that would  or should  have 
alerted Santander to ask more questions about the identity of the property owner.
I agree that the banks solicitors could have acted more quickly in alerting Santander to the 
issue relating to the identity of the seller, as there was a delay of about five weeks before 
this was raised with the bank. However, the questions the solicitors asked of the bank 
relating to whether or not the company needed independent legal advice were legitimate; 
where a limited company agrees to sell a substantial non-cash asset (which is an asset that 
exceeds either 10% of the companys asset value or is valued at over £100,000), there are 
requirements that have to be met under the Companies Act 2006. So that is why the 
solicitors flagged this with Santander. I wouldnt expect solicitors to know what the banks 
lending criteria are, as those are underwriting, rather than legal, considerations.
I also think the solicitors could have told Mr Fs solicitors at an earlier stage that the 
mortgage offer had been withdrawn. But I dont think this would have changed things, 
because by the time Santander had withdrawn the offer, the sale had already completed. I 
think its more likely than not that Mr F would still have gone ahead with his sale, even if 
matters had moved more quickly. And ultimately he was able to purchase the property he 
wanted from the company, using an alternative source of funds.
I find that Santander was entitled to withdraw the mortgage offer once it learned that the 
seller was not Mr Fs father, but was a limited company. Im not persuaded Santander could 
or should have known about this until it was made aware of the position by its solicitors. As a 
result, I find no basis on which I can fairly order Santander to reimburse the ERC, or any of 
the fees Mr F incurred.
Putting things right
There was delay by the solicitors in informing Santander of the identity of the seller, and in 
letting Mr Fs solicitors know that the mortgage offer had been withdrawn. This caused 
distress and inconvenience to Mr F, for which a payment of compensation is due. I am 
satisfied that £200 compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint Santander UK Plc must pay Mr F £200 compensation. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman