DRN-2223837
The complaint
Mr W complains about what happened when he asked Santander UK Plc to help him get 
some money back that he paid for flights that didnt get him and his family to where they 
were supposed to go.
What happened
Mr W booked flights for himself and his family, for a holiday. The flights had one overseas 
connection before reaching the holiday destination. Mr W said that the first flight was 
delayed. As a result of this, they were so late reaching the gate that they were denied 
boarding for the second flight. He contacted the airline, which offered to get him on the next 
flight to his destination, and apparently asked him to pay for this. He said this alternative 
flight was some days away, and he had nowhere for him and his family to stay, so he bought 
flights home instead. 
Mr W asked Santander to help him get his money back. Santander started a chargeback for 
Mr W, and submitted his request (via the other bank involved) to the travel agent hed 
booked with. That agent asked some questions, and Santander has a set time to respond to 
those. It asked Mr W for further information within 14 days. Mr W says he didnt get the letter 
about this, but he did ring Santander on 3 March, and ask for an extension to provide further 
information. (Mr W feels that the airline was delaying answering his questions, so it didnt 
have to pay him back.)
Santander was able to extend the deadline a little, it allows itself some time to process 
paperwork too so by cutting down on the time it allowed itself to do that, it was able to give 
Mr W more time to respond. But it didnt receive anything from Mr W within the timescale it 
had to process a response to the travel agent. So it said it couldnt go ahead with the 
chargeback. It took back the temporary credit for the disputed amount that it had paid into Mr 
Ws account.
Mr W complained. He thinks the airline knew about the time limits and deliberately delayed 
sending this to him, so he couldnt make a chargeback, and he thinks Santander let the 
airline get away with this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the deadlines for a 
chargeback arent set by Santander. Theyre set by the card scheme operator, whose 
symbol is on Mr Ws card. Santander just hadnt received the information it needed within 
those deadlines. Our investigator said he understood that Mr W wasnt able to meet this 
deadline, because he was still waiting for this information from the airline at the time, but our 
investigator said that wasnt Santanders fault. He didnt think Santander had to do anything 
more now.
Mr W didnt agree with that. He didnt say why. He asked for his complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Santander doesnt make the rules for chargebacks, and it cant change them. The card 
scheme operator sets deadlines for each stage, to keep the process running smoothly. So 
Santnader wasnt able to extend the deadlines further for Mr W. 
I know that Mr W was still waiting for further information when this deadline passed. But that 
isnt Santanders fault. 
I dont think that Santander failed to assist Mr W. I think it did what it could, within the 
confines of the chargeback scheme. With no response received to its request for further 
information, it wasnt able to carry this request forward for Mr W. And as part of this, I 
understand it took back the temporary credit it had made to Mr W. 
I understand that Mr W is pursuing other avenues to get his money back, and I hope he finds 
a successful resolution elsewhere. But our service can only consider a complaint against 
Santander, not his airline. And because I dont think Santander has done anything wrong, 
this complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman