DRN-4353024
The complaint
Mr C complained that redress offered by Financial Administration Services Limited (trading 
as Fidelity), after they made an admitted pricing error, was unreasonable.
What happened
Mr C held an execution-only share dealing account with Fidelity. 
6 August 2022 - Mr C gave instructions to Fidelity to invest £425 in a fund (which Ill call the 
L fund). 
8 August 2022  Fidelity carried out Mr Cs instructions and invested £425, purchasing units 
in the L fund. Due to a pricing error, the buy was incorrectly priced at £1.4078 per unit when 
the unit price was 100 times more than this.
11 August 2022  Fidelity sent Mr C an automatically generated Confirmation of your 
Investment letter saying that 301.89 units had been bought in the L fund at £1.407793. The 
same day, it made an adjustment on his account for £42,712.68 correcting the unit pricing. 
22 September 2022 - Fidelity manually sent Mr C the correct Confirmation of Transaction  
showing that his £425 investment had bought 3.02 units in the L fund at £140.7793.
Mr C was concerned to see the adjustment transaction showing around £42,000 being 
moved out of his account  he thought Fidelity had made a mistake. And he objected to 
Fidelity taking funds from his account without his knowledge or permission. He wanted 
Fidelity to undo the correction theyd made and pay him compensation for what they had 
done. 
Fidelity upheld his complaint. They said that on 8 August, a system error meant the unit price 
had been incorrectly shown £100 lower per unit than it should have been. So Fidelity had 
performed the appropriate corrective actions to accurately reflect Mr Cs £425 investment in 
the L fund and made the adjustment to claw back the incorrect price per unit used in the 
transaction. Fidelity apologised for the standard of service it had provided on this occasion 
and offered Mr C £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response. He said Fidelity should have checked properly to 
ensure the price was correct and it wasnt acceptable to give him the wrong price, put the 
trade through and then try to undo the trade without his permission. Our investigator didnt 
agree with Mr C. She was satisfied that Fidelity had taken fair and reasonable steps to rectify 
its error and by adjusting the value of the L fund in Mr Cs account, he was in the same 
position as if the error hadnt occurred. She thought that £50 compensation was fair to reflect 
the fact that Fidelity had mismanaged Mr Cs expectations regarding the price and so she 
said she wasnt upholding his complaint. 
Mr C disagreed. In brief summary, he mainly said:
the investigator had disregarded what hed said about never having received any 
SMS, letter or any kind of contact from Fidelity regarding what was going on and 
instead she had chosen to believe Fidelitys version of events 
he disputes the investigators timeframe and says she made an error when referring 
to when the deal was done and when the correction was made (although I think Mr C 
may have misread this part of the investigators view which refers to the adjustment 
to Mr Cs account being made on the same day Fidelity sent the incorrect pricing 
information  which doesnt seem to be in dispute) 
Fidelitys terms and conditions state they are legally responsible to the client for their 
actions if they are negligent and incorrectly pricing a fund 100 times cheaper than it 
should be amounts to negligence when Fidelitys systems and error checking should 
not allow these mistakes to occur
once a deal is confirmed it is legally irreversible and funds in his account cannot 
lawfully be removed without his permission. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint. My role is to consider all the 
evidence presented by the parties and reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case. We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in 
our approach. 
It seems to me that Mr Cs main complaint is that Fidelity hasnt accepted that they should 
bear the financial consequences of their error and they werent entitled retrospectively to 
correct the pricing error by recovering the £42,000 subsequently removed from his account. 
Fidelity agreed that it was responsible for a systems error which meant that the units in the 
L fund were priced incorrectly. So I dont need to say more about how the error happened 
or make any findings about whats already been agreed. Im going to concentrate in my 
decision on what Fidelity should fairly and reasonably do to put things right in these 
circumstances.
I cant determine whether or not Fidelity has acted illegally or if it has been negligent in law 
in the same way that a court or tribunal would. I can tell Fidelity to pay compensation or take 
other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that Fidelity did something wrong or acted 
unfairly or unreasonably  and this led to Mr C suffering financial loss or some other 
detriment. 
Ive thought first about whether Mr C has suffered any financial loss as a result of Fidelitys 
systems error. On 8 August, units in the L fund actually cost £140.773, so Mr Cs £425 
would have bought him 3.02 units in the fund. The terms and conditions Mr C signed up to 
in order to be able to trade allow Fidelity to make corrections when they make a mistake. So 
I find that Fidelity didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when they made the correction on 
Mr Cs account after identifying their pricing error. 
I cant fairly say that Mr C has suffered a £42,000 or so financial loss (or any other financial 
loss) in these circumstances. The correction Fidelity made has put Mr C into the position he 
shouldve been in, but for Fidelitys error. It was reasonable to restore Mr C to the position he should have been in  this reflects the Ombudsman approach and its what I would have 
directed Fidelity to do if it hadnt already taken this action. 
Fair compensation also needs to properly reflect the impact on Mr C of Fidelitys service 
failings and I've thought carefully about this. 
After the pricing error, Fidelity needed to take steps to put things right as soon as possible. 
Here, the account correction was made three days after the trade on 8 August, which 
seems a broadly reasonable timescale to me. Its unfortunate that Fidelitys automatically 
generated letter confirming the incorrect pricing information went to Mr C on the same day. 
I can see how that would have been confusing. And given the magnitude of the pricing 
error, Fidelity could reasonably have anticipated that Mr C might experience some alarm 
when an amount in excess of £42,000 was removed from his account, without any 
explanation. 
Fidelity has sent me details from its system records showing it called Mr C on 12 August and 
left a voicemail message requesting him to call back on a free phone number it gave him. 
Following this, Fidelity sent him a text message. I appreciate that Mr C disputes this. But 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited or contradictory information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our 
website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach. Here, although I dont 
doubt that Mr C is certain about what hes told us, I think its reasonable to rely on Fidelitys 
system records as evidence of what they did at their end. However, it wasnt until well over a 
month later that Fidelity manually sent Mr C the revised Confirmation of Transaction dated 
22 September 2022 showing the correct information, although I note that didnt include any 
specific reference to the corrective action taken on his account. I think Fidelity could and 
should have done more to establish direct contact with Mr C and explain things sooner than 
it did. 
On the other hand, as part of our approach to redress, we expect consumers to take 
mitigating steps to limit the impact on themselves if a business makes a mistake. And Ive 
kept in mind that Mr C couldve seen that the pricing information shown on Fidelitys 
11 August letter was very significantly and unexpectedly out of line with the unit price hed 
paid when investing in the same fund just a few weeks earlier. So its reasonable to think 
that Mr C might have wanted to contact Fidelity himself to double check this  and, 
especially when he saw the money being taken from his account, I would have expected 
him to contact Fidelity directly to query this if hed been concerned they were acting 
incorrectly. Had he done so, I think its likely he would have found out what had happened 
and he could have avoided much of the stress and anxiety this situation has caused him. 
All in all, taking all this into consideration, I consider Fidelitys £50 offer is fair and 
reasonable. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr C disagrees with what I've said and intends to explore other options for pursuing his 
complaint. Fidelity has made no substantive comment on what I've said in my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think my provisional 
decision is fair. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Fidelity should pay Mr C the £50 compensation it has offered to 
reflect the shortcomings I have identified in the service it provided to Mr C. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) 
should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman