DRN-3827427
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line [Direct Line] has 
unfairly declined a claim theyve made on their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P has led the claim with this Service so Ill refer to her throughout. References to Mrs P 
and Direct Line include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
During some repair work on an external drain pipe, unrelated to the claim in question, 
Mrs Ps plumber discovered a blockage in an underground drain. Further 
investigation revealed damage to the drain.
Mrs P contacted Direct Line to make a claim under the accidental damage cover on 
her buildings insurance policy. Direct Line appointed a drainage specialist to 
investigate the claim. 
The agent said the drain was displaced in two places and this had happened 
gradually over time. Direct Line declined the claim as it said damage that happened 
gradually was excluded under the policy terms.
Mrs P complained as she said she was unaware of the damage as it was 
underground. This didnt change Direct Lines position on the decline so Mrs P 
brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint saying the damage didnt happen as a 
result of an insured peril and it didnt make any difference if Mrs P was aware of the 
damage or not.
Mrs P asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When claiming on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered. If an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, the 
onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. Ill be considering this complaint in light of 
this principle while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
The terms of the policy set out what the parties can expect from the cover and Im 
unlikely to tell an insurer to pay a claim if its not covered by the terms.
The claim was made under the following peril detailed in the policy terms 
accidental damage to underground pipes. Accidental damage is defined within 
the policy as sudden and unintended physical damage that happens unexpectedly. 
The policy includes a general exclusion which states This policy doesnt coverAny 
damage caused gradually. In my experience, this definition is common across many 
insurance policies.
Direct Lines drainage expert was of the professional opinion the drain was displaced 
in two places and that this happened gradually. I note Direct Line checked with its 
expert to see if there was any sign of accidental damage by a cause such as tree 
roots or ground movement but the expert confirmed there wasnt.
I know Mrs P doesnt agree with this conclusion but Ive not seen any opposing 
professional opinion suggesting another plausible alternative cause. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable Direct Line relied on this expert opinion in saying 
the damage happened gradually and Im satisfied it acted fairly and in line with the 
policy terms in declining this claim. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ps comments that she wasnt aware of the damage as it was 
underground. But damage happening gradually is excluded under the policy 
irrespective of a policyholders awareness of the issue.
For the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Direct Line to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman