DRN-3403049
The complaint
Mr B complains that the advice received from Portafina Investment Management Limited 
about his Occupational Pension Scheme (the OPS), was unsuitable for him.
Mr B is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). All references to 
Mr B will include information provided by the CMC acting on his behalf.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2022, in which I said I wasnt intending to uphold 
the complaint. Portafina accepted my provisional findings. Mr B said the reason he thinks the 
decision should be upheld was that he was suffering from ill health at the time that could 
have affected his decision making.
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision as follows:
Mr B held deferred pension benefits in an OPS that he had with a former employer. This was 
a final salary scheme and hed been a member from September 2003 until September 2012. 
In around May 2018, Mr B contacted Portafina about a pension review. During a later call, 
Mr B had said a relative had used Portafinas service to transfer a pension previously and he 
was hoping to do the same with his OPS.
Following Mr Bs contact with Portafina it requested a transfer value from the OPS 
administrators. A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) was then completed by Portafina on 13 
August 2018. Amongst other things, this noted the following about Mr Bs OPS benefits:
Level of pension at age 65 if he stayed with his OPS - £3,317 (full) or £2,229 
(reduced). If Mr B took the reduced pension, he could receive a lump sum cash 
benefit of £14,858 at age 65.
Level of pension if retiring at age 57 if he stayed with his OPS - £1,815 (full) or 
£1,366 (reduced). If Mr B took a reduced pension, he could receive a lump sum cash 
benefit of £9,104 at age 57.
On 16 August 2018, Portafina wrote to Mr B to book a telephone appointment. In this letter, 
Portafina paraplanner informed Mr B that the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) was 
£44,838 and the maximum tax-free cash allowance (TFC) was £11,209. The adviser also 
noted that the critical yield for the plan to match his OPS benefits would be 11.7%. 
A fact-find was completed by a Portafina paraplanner over the phone with Mr B on 
28 August 2018. Mr Bs circumstances were noted as follows:
He was 55 years old.
He lived in shared rented property paying around £645 for rent and council tax.
His yearly income was £21,800.
He was a member of his current employers pension scheme but this was only a 
small amount. He also had death in service benefits with his current employer.
He had total outstanding debts of around £2,200.
He had a single life policy worth £112,000 with a monthly premium of £16.
He had no savings and his total disposable income after bills was £153 each month.
Mr B explained his reasons for wanting to transfer from his OPS were mainly to pay his 
existing debts and to buy a new car which he needed for work. He also said hed not been 
able to afford a holiday for a number of years. The paraplanner asked Mr B if he could use 
finance to buy another car, but he (Mr B) said this wasnt possible due to his credit rating. 
In summary, other matters discussed during the call were as follows:
Portafinas fees were explained.
Mr B described himself as having no investment experience.
After going through a list of questions, the paraplanner concluded Mr Bs had a 
balanced attitude to risk.
Mr B said he understood that if he transferred from the OPS hed be giving up 
guaranteed benefits.
Mr B said he was separated from his wife but they still had a good relationship and 
he wanted any potential benefits in the event of his death, to be paid to her.
On 5 September 2018 a Portafina Financial Adviser (the adviser) sent Mr B a letter in which 
he said he strongly recommended that he (Mr B) didnt transfer from his OPS. And instead, 
it was recommended that Mr B leave his pension benefits where they were. The adviser said 
he was recommending this because Mr B would be giving up valuable guaranteed benefits 
under his OPS. This letter also said: 
This is absolutely your decision. Everyones circumstances are different and if you decide 
you still want to transfer your [OPS] to a new scheme to release tax-free cash then this is 
something we can help you with. In this instance we would need to treat you as an insistent 
client throughout your pension review.
The adviser went on to say (bold advisers emphasis):
If you stay with [the OPS] you have the option of taking a reduced guaranteed income of 
£2,229 per year so that you can release a tax free sum of £14,858 when you reach scheme 
retirement age of 65 years-old. If you transfer out of this scheme now then any new pension 
would need to grow at a rate of 11.70% per year to at least match these benefits (the 
technical term for this rate is the critical yield). We just do not think this is achievable and 
strongly recommend that you leave this pension where it is.
Mr B was advised that if he wanted to go ahead as an insistent client, he would need to sign 
an enclosed options form and an insistent client form. The options form gave Mr B two 
options. The first was to Disregard our recommendation and continue as an insistent client 
and the second was to Accept our recommendation. Mr B marked the box for the first 
option.
The insistent client form began by saying: This form confirms you still want to take money 
early from your pension, even though this goes against our recommendation. This form 
also required Mr B to acknowledge that hed be giving up certain benefits, which were 
summarised in the form. The insistent client form requested Mr B to record, in his own 
words, why he wanted to transfer. In a handwritten note Mr B responded as follows:
I am in need of a cash sum to purchase a second hand car for work and pleasure as my 
present car needs attention. Also my wife and I havent had a holiday since 2003 because our current income dont (sic) allow us to save any money for holidays. I also owe £1,000 to 
a studio catalogue which I need to clear to improve my current credit rating.
Mr B signed both the option and insistent client forms on 7 September 2018. And on 
14 September 2018, a paraplanner called Mr B following receipt of these forms. He asked if 
Mr B understood the advice he had been given. Mr B responded by saying he understood 
that if he were to transfer, the growth rates from any investments would need to grow by at 
least 11% to match his current OPS benefits. But Mr B said he was willing to sacrifice these 
benefits to transfer.
A suitability report was produced by the adviser on 18 September 2018. Under Our 
Recommendation heading, the adviser said:
We have already recommended that you do not transfer your [OPS] and instead leave your 
pension funds where they are because of the benefits you will be giving up if you transfer. 
However, you have decided to disregard this recommendation and are aware that as a result 
we must now treat you as an insistent client. As an insistent client you have asked us to 
recommend how best to access your pension funds and we propose that you transfer your 
[OPS] to an Aegon plan.
Later in the report, the adviser said he was recommending an Aegon Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) because, it would allow Mr B to set up a flexi-access drawdown, which he 
said was key to him (Mr B) accessing his TFC. The adviser went on to explain that with the 
Aegon SIPP, Mr B could begin to take pension benefits from 55 years old and access up to 
25% TFC (tax-free cash), leaving the remaining 75% invested as recommended by the 
adviser. The recommended investments were as follows:
40% into Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Fund (Fixed Interest)
54.7% into Dimensional World equity (Equity) Fund
5% in cash
After explaining what the critical yield was and what investment growth would be needed to 
match Mr Bs OPS benefits, which was 11.7% (reduced pension) and 13.7% (full pension), 
the adviser said: We believe that your new plan is unlikely to achieve the critical yield. He 
also noted that Mr Bs OPS benefits were subject to yearly increases.
In the report, the adviser noted that: During your paraplanner appointment we talked about 
other ways you could raise money instead of releasing tax-free cash from your pension. And 
that: We do not believe that transferring your pension to release tax-free cash is the best 
route for you.
Under the heading What are the potential risks to transferring your pensions?, the adviser 
made the following points:
The OPS had a death benefit of 40.78% payable to Mr Bs spouse, which would be 
lost by transferring.
Any benefits he gave up could affect his income in retirement.
Any income Mr B took from his pension excluding the TFC would be subject to his 
(Mr Bs) marginal rate of income tax.
Investments held in the SIPP, may not perform as expected and could make losses.
In terms of the new pension plan, the investment such as equities can be volatile 
which gives rise to risks, as well as opportunities. Fixed interest securities are 
generally less volatile but rising interest rates or the prospect of rising inflation will 
adversely affect the value of fixed interest securities.Releasing money from the pension could adversely affect his state benefits but it was 
noted that these were not currently being received.
The advisers fee of £3,138 was set out in the report and 1% of the value of the funds 
ongoing adviser fees were payable if Mr B opted to have this service. He was also told about 
the fees applied by the new SIPP provider.
On 22 September 2018 Mr B signed a Portafina Declaration Form. This said:
I understand that Portafina has recommended that I do not transfer my policy with [OPS] 
due to the benefits I will be giving up if I do, If I wish to proceed with the transfer then I am 
aware that I will be treated as an insistent client. The declaration reiterated some of the 
warnings about the risks of transferring from his OPS.
A transfer value of £44,838 was sent on 5 November 2018 to Mr Bs Aegon SIPP. Mr B 
withdrew £11,209 as TFC. In 2019, Mr B requested a further £16,000 from the SIPP. And in 
February 2020, he requested to cash-in his entire remaining funds. Portafina organised 
these withdrawals for Mr B.
In 2020 Mr B complained to Portafina about the transfer advice. Amongst other things, he 
said the transfer resulted in losses of around £128,078 which Portafina was responsible for. 
In summary, Mr B made the following further points:
Portafina had induced him to transfer his OPS benefits by saying the transfer into the 
Aegon SIPP would result in a rate of investment growth that would be more than the 
OPS benefits.
It owed him a duty of care which it had failed to meet.
Portafina failed to undertake an adequate assessment of his financial position, his 
capacity for loss and his attitude to risk.
It failed to ensure the advice met with his wants and needs.
The risks werent properly explained to him.
It failed to be compliant with the regulators (Financial Conduct Authoritys) 
requirement for a customer to be defined as a high net worth individual.
It hasnt complied with various rules set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(commonly known as COBS).
Portafina rejected Mr Bs complaint. It said it had recommended that Mr B didnt transfer his 
OPS benefits and therefore, it hadnt been negligent in the advice it had given him. It said it 
had made it clear to Mr B that by disregarding its advice he was acting on an insistent client 
basis. Portafina said its suitability report highlighted to Mr B the loss of guarantees that he 
would have had if hed stayed with his OPS.
Portafina pointed to the regulators Factsheet 35 released in April 2015, which said firms 
should ensure its advice is clear and suitable for its clients. And that for insistent clients, it is 
clear their actions are against the firms advice and what risks of the alternative course of 
action are. Portafina said it fully adopted the Factsheets principles and guidance in its 
dealings with Mr B including the process whereby the client says, in their own words, why 
they wished to proceed against advice.
Portafina said the investments recommended to Mr B were chosen to match his balanced 
attitude to risk and were on the more cautious side of the spectrum. It didnt think it had 
categorised Mr B incorrectly or recommended unsuitable investments for him. And the 
investments Mr B was invested in were suitable for a retail client such as him.Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. As noted above, I issued a 
provisional decision on 9 March 2022 saying that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. 
The matter has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of Mr Bs recent submissions, Ive taken these into account. I understand that 
because of the nature of his illness, this may have affected his decision making. However, I 
cant see that, even taking this into account, the business has acted unfairly. In this case, I 
do think that Portafina provided Mr B sufficient information to make an informed choice. It 
also gave him sufficient time to think about the information he had been given. So, my 
decision remains that Im not upholding the complaint. The reasons for this decision were set 
out in my provisional decision as follows:
In terms of the recommendation made to Mr B by the Portafina adviser, this was not to 
transfer his OPS as to do so, would be giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. This was 
clearly set out in the suitability report and other documents sent to Mr B. I wont repeat what 
these say again here, as Ive set this out above, but its clear that from the outset, Mr B was 
told that transferring would not be in his best interests. I also think Mr B showed an 
understanding of the benefits he would be giving up if he decided to transfer.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and Portafinas paraplanners. In the fact find call, the 
paraplanner discussed the benefits Mr B would be giving up if he were to transfer. I think Mr 
B showed a reasonable understanding of what impact losing these guarantees would have 
on him. But he was focused on accessing his TFC due to his financial position. 
In a subsequent call, which was made after Mr B had read the recommendation not to 
transfer and signed the options and insistent client forms, he was asked if he understood 
what hed be giving up by going ahead. Mr B was able to articulate the critical yield that he 
would need in order to match his OPS benefits. And the paraplanner then explained the 
specific details of the guarantees Mr B would be giving up and made it clear, any new plan 
he (Mr B) moved into, would not carry these same guarantees. Mr B said he was willing to 
sacrifice the OPS guaranteed benefits. He also acknowledged by transferring, his 
retirement income would be dependent on the performance of his investments, and that he 
knew this (the performance) would not be guaranteed. 
As Ive said, there were also several written documents, including the suitability report, which 
drew Mr Bs attention to the advice he was being given and explained what it meant if he 
went ahead as an insistent client. The insistent client form said: Please state in your own 
words (as fully as possible) why you want to go ahead and transfer your [OPS] to access 
your pension savings early, even though this is against our recommendation. Mr B then 
wrote the statement that Ive set out above.
Throughout the suitability report which followed, the adviser says in several places, that Mr B 
had said he wanted to continue as an insistent client as the advice was not to transfer. The 
adviser made it clear, that the transfer wasnt in Mr Bs interests. The report, in my view, also 
clearly set out the investment risks and the impact this could have on Mr Bs pension.
All in all, I think Portafinas recommendation to not transfer was suitable for Mr B. And Ive 
seen no evidence of it inducing Mr B into acting against this advice on the promise that the 
SIPP would perform better than his OPS. But whilst I think the advice was suitable, given 
Portafina was making recommendations about how to invest Mr Bs residual pension funds and accept him on an insistent client basis, I think it needed to ensure the advice was clear, 
fair and not misleading, such that he could make an informed choice. This is something 
Portafina recognised when it pointed to the regulators consultation paper CP17/28 from 
August 2017, at paragraph 6.5 and 6.6 where it says:
We recognise that where a client has received a personal recommendation, they may 
choose to take a different action to the one that was recommended. It is essential that clients 
in this position have had the consequences fully explained so they understand the 
implications of proceeding against the recommendation.
When proceeding with a request for an insistent client it is important that the firm that has 
given the personal recommendation makes it clear (a) what element of its advice is being 
acted against and (b) that any further advice given is subsequent to the specific action 
requested by the insistent client.
This consultation paper also sets out at paragraph 6.6 what steps firms should take if the 
client decides to act against its advice which includes: [the firm] have clearly communicated 
the risks of the alternative course of action proposed by the client and why they have not 
recommended it.
In this case, I can see Portafina did provide Mr B clear information about its recommendation 
and why it wasnt recommending the transfer. I should also say that it made Mr B aware of 
another alternative to meet his objectives. In particular, during the fact find call, the 
paraplanner asked Mr B if he could access finance to buy a new car. But Mr B ruled this out 
due to his financial position. But where I think the advice fell short in terms of setting out 
alternatives, was not providing Mr B with analysis of what he could have received via his 
OPS at age 55. At the point of the advice he had already reached this age.
Portafina acknowledges that Mr B could have taken a reduced pension at age 55 under his 
OPS. But it says he would have suffered high reductions to his annual pension payable and 
lump sum if he did so. It also notes it did tell Mr B that to transfer was not in his best interests 
but he still decided to transfer. Nonetheless, as Ive said, it still needed to provide him with 
sufficient information so that he could make an informed choice.
Looking at the impact of Mr B not being provided with more details of his options at age 55, 
the first thing to note is that Mr B was aware of his right to take his benefits under his OPS at 
this age. He has provided documents to this service that he received from his OPS. Amongst 
other things, he had a detailed webchat with the OPS administrators on 16 July 2018, which 
was two months before Portafinas advice. During the webchat Mr B was told about his 
option to take reduced benefits at age 55. And he was provided with sources on where to 
find further information including going back to the OPS administrators for more information.
I can also see that the TVAS (Transfer Value Analysis) produced by Portafina for Mr B 
included projections of what Mr B could receive at both 65 and also 57 under his OPS. In 
particular, the TVAS shows that if Mr Bs had stayed with his OPS, he would have likely 
received around £9,104 cash lump sum at age 57 if hed opted to take a reduced pension of 
£1,366. So, I think its likely that if the TVAS had carried out analysis for what he would have 
received at age 55, this would be a cash lump sum lower than at age 57. In comparison the 
analysis showed that he would receive an estimated tax free cash lump sum (TFC), of up to 
£11,209, if he transferred to the SIPP.
Looking at all the evidence, I think Mr B had an immediate need to access his TFC and that 
he wanted to maximise this to meet his objectives. So, I think its unlikely he wouldve 
chosen the OPS at age 55 if this showed he would receive a lower cash lump sum than 
under the SIPP if he were to transfer. Further, Mr B withdrew all of his funds from the SIPP within two years of the transfer. So, I think this does suggest Mr B was looking for more 
flexibility than a fixed income, which was his only option if hed stayed with his OPS after 
taking a cash lump sum. It should also be borne in mind that the TVAS did cover the age at 
age 57 which was only two years away from the earliest he could take his OPS benefits.
So, given Mr B decided to transfer against the advice he was given and was also made 
aware of the impact of this choice on the guaranteed benefits, Im not persuaded having any 
more information than already provided to him by Portafina would have resulted him acting 
any differently. In other words, I dont think Portafina was the cause of Mr Bs losses.
In terms of the investments that were recommended by Portafina, Mr B says these werent 
suitable for his capacity for loss and/ or his attitude to risk. I can see Mr B had very little or 
no investment experience before he approached Portafina. But theres a degree of 
subjective judgment when an adviser makes a recommendation. Different advisers can 
reasonably make different recommendations when considering a customers demands and 
needs. Its not my role to substitute the advisers recommendation for what I may consider to 
be a slightly more suitable recommendation. Rather Id need to be persuaded that the 
advisers recommendation was wholly unsuitable for Mr B in order to conclude the 
investments werent suitable for him.
Having looked at everything Im not persuaded this is the case. A large proportion of the 
investments were in fixed bonds which are considered to be relatively low risk investments. 
And this had to be balanced with other higher risk investments in order to make gains to 
provide Mr B with an income in his retirement. Overall, I dont think the investments 
recommended for Mr B were unsuitable for him. And I dont think the investments 
recommended to him required him to be classified as a high risk investor as the CMC has 
said. I also think the risks of the recommended investments were clearly explained to him. 
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman