DRN-2173713
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) have dealt poorly with her claim following 
a no fault accident. She complains that Zenith did not provide a definitive point of contact, 
the communication was poor, they provided mis information including closing her claim and 
delayed in dealing with her case. Mrs C says that she has had to chase them and this has 
caused her sleepless nights and wasted time. 
What happened
Mrs C bought a car on 4 February 2019. 
On 6 February while it was parked near her daughters house, a collision took place. A van 
collided into a car, which then turn collided with her stationary car, damaging the offside. The 
van then also collided directly with her car, damaging the rear.  
Mrs C notified Zenith who arranged for a rental courtesy car and advised that her car would 
be recovered. It was recovered and placed in storage. 
Initially, the claim was dealt with by an accident management service on behalf of Zenith, but  
following information being received that the third party was not insured, the case was 
transferred to Zenith for handling on 9 April 2019. There was a delay while the paperwork 
was transferred to Zenith, and on 18 April 2019, the car was examined by an engineer.  
The car was written off and Mrs C was notified on 24 April 2019 and issued with payment for 
the value of the vehicle minus the excess of £250. 
Mrs C complained to Zenith about the delay. They provided a final response on 25 April 
2019, acknowledging the delay caused by the transfer of the case, and paid her £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs C then had to chase Zenith further and was advised that the claim had been mistakenly 
closed following her previous complaint. It was reopened on 23 May 2019 and  Mrs C was 
sent a final response to this complaint on 21 June 2019, acknowledging the error and 
awarding a further £75 for the poor service and further delay. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Cs complaint.  He thought that some of the 
delays experienced by Mrs C were avoidable, and that the communication could have been 
better. However, he felt that the £175 paid to Mrs C was fair in the circumstances and in line 
with what we would award. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint, and I will explain my reasons below. 
Firstly I would like to be clear that I am only considering any delays and issues with this 
claim up until 21 June 2019. I appreciate that the claim was ongoing for a long period after 
this, but I can only consider the issues that were dealt with in the final responses of 25 April 
2019 and 21 June 2019. 
I can also understand that Mrs C must have found this whole experience frustrating. She 
bought a new car, only to have it taken away two days later following an accident in which 
she was not in any way at fault. It is in these sorts of circumstances that we expect our 
insurance company to provide good customer service and Mrs C felt that the service fell 
short of that.  
Mrs Cs car was recovered and was provided with a courtesy car. She did purchase a new 
car on 25 February 2019 but she did not receive the settlement on her car until 24 April 
2019. 
I can appreciate that Mrs C may have felt that there were a number of people dealing with 
her claim and that she did not have a single point of contact. This seems to be because 
initially the case was being dealt with by Zeniths appointed accident management company, 
and it then had to be passed to Zenith. There was also involvement from a legal firm who 
were to recover the uninsured losses. This can sometimes feel disjointed and I can see that 
Mrs C made a number of calls about the case between the accident and the settlement in 
April to try and chase matters. A single point of contact would have been helpful in this 
situation as would more proactive communication from the business and its agents. 
I can see that once Zenith had the claim back with them, they moved matters quite quickly. 
They received the case on 9 April 2019, had the car examined by engineers, and a cheque 
was sent to Mrs C on 25 April 2019. However, Zenith have accepted that there were delays 
here and have given Mrs C £100 by way of apology for the delays in this transition. I think 
that this level of compensation is fair for the delays experienced. It had taken two and a half 
months in total to get Mrs Cs car assessed and the payment cheque out. Whilst this is not 
ideal, I can see that there were some difficulties in identifying the third-party insurer and 
issuing the correspondence to the right party, and some difficulties getting the case 
transferred over to Zenith so not all of the delays were the businesses fault. Mrs C was also 
provided with a courtesy car, and that would have remained with her until the settlement 
cheque was sent, but she did choose to purchase a new car before this.
A further error was then caused by the claim being mistakenly closed. Mrs C contacted 
Zenith about this and the case was reopened. A small further delay was caused, and £75 
was sent to Mrs C by way of a further apology on 21 June 2019. I think that this additional 
offer was fair because the delay caused was short, and once the error had been brought to 
Zeniths attention, it was resolved. I also note that at this point, Mrs C had received her 
settlement and so there was no detriment to her other than the inconvenience and upset 
caused by having to bring it to Zeniths attention. 
Overall, I agree that compensation was due to Mrs C but Im satisfied that the compensation 
offered to Mrs C was fair for the inconvenience caused by the communication problems and 
the delay for the reasons above.   
My final decision
My decision is that Zenith Insurance plc do not need to do anything further 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman