DRN-4220062
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed a third-party to make a payment towards 
his loan account. He says this delayed the date that his loan defaulted.
What happened
Some years ago, Mr P had a loan with HSBC.
 
In 2010, his mother made a payment towards the debt. Mr P says this payment caused his 
loan to default later than he thinks it should have, subsequently impacting his ability to obtain 
finance elsewhere in the years that followed. His view is that a third-party shouldnt have 
been able to pay towards his loan and that HSBC accepted a fraudulent payment.
Mr P was unaware this event had occurred, that is until another complaint that hed raised 
with our service brought the matter to light. So, in late 2022, he complained about what had 
happened. HSBC provided its final response in January 2023; it didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. So, he referred the matter to our service for an independent review.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. Overall, he didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong. In summary, he said:
While it was clear that Mr Ps mother had knowledge of his loan account, there 
wasnt anything to categorically show that HSBC had shared something it shouldnt. 
There wasnt anything to suggest that HSBC couldnt accept a payment from a third-
party. So, it was reasonable of the bank to process the payment Mr Ps mother made 
towards his loan account.
It isnt the role of this service to determine if any data protection rules, like those set 
out in the Data Protection Act (DPA) or General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), 
had been broken. That was for a court or the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) to decide.
Mr P disagreed. He said that it was his debt, so it was his responsibility to repay it and HSBC 
shouldnt have accepted payment from elsewhere. He reiterated that the payment made by 
his mother had delayed the date his loan account defaulted, and that HSBC had provided a 
settlement figure directly to his mother  which was a breach of data protection regulations.
 As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr P feels very strongly about what happened. So, Ill say at the outset that I 
hope he wont take it as a discourtesy if I havent commented on each and every point hes 
made. Instead, Ive kept things deliberately concise. Thats because our role is to be an 
informal service, and my approach here is simply to align with that purpose.
 
The crux of this complaint, I think, is that HSBC accepted a payment which Mr P feels it 
shouldnt. He sees that payment towards his loan as fraudulent because, in his words, it was 
unauthorised and made without his consent. 
I, though, dont see things in quite the same way. Broadly speaking, theres nothing 
preventing a third-party such as, in this case, a family member, from paying towards 
someones loan. Much the same way that money can be paid to a current account, or to a 
credit card, by somebody who isnt the account holder. With that in mind, when HSBC were 
offered this payment, I dont think there was anything inherently unreasonable in accepting it. 
Im aware that Mr P has spent some time reading published decisions from our website. 
Specifically, hes reviewed those about disputed transactions which have been upheld. Mr P 
believes our findings in those decisions support his argument that his mothers payment was 
fraudulent, and that his complaint should also be upheld. Hes said the only difference in the 
decisions hes reviewed  in comparison to his own complaint  is that they deal with 
payments being taken from someones account, rather than being paid in.
 
That, though, in my view, is quite a substantial difference. It isnt the same as whats 
happened here. So, I dont think those decisions set any precedent for  or have any bearing 
on  the circumstances before me in this complaint. Besides, each case is considered on its 
own merits, and Im not bound by other decisions made upon different circumstances.
Mr P argues that the payment from his mother delayed his account in defaulting, which 
meant the default was visible on his credit file for longer. Thats correct, it did delay the 
default, but I dont think HSBC was wrong to administer Mr Ps loan in the way it did.
I say that because the bank was offered a payment, which Im satisfied it was able to take, 
that it credited to Mr Ps loan account. It then ultimately defaulted the loan around six months 
later having not received any further payments. I dont find that to be an irrational or 
unreasonable course of action on HSBCs part.
 
Turning to Mr Ps concerns about HSBC releasing personal data to his mother, its unclear 
exactly what happened. In my colleagues decision, regarding the other matters Mr P 
complained about, he indicated that, in his view, the bank had sent a settlement figure to 
Mr Ps mother. On the other hand, Ive seen that HSBCs final response letter for this 
complaint explains how it cant be certain  given the length of time involved  whether 
something was, or wasnt, sent.
 
The records the bank has been able to provide arent comprehensive given the length of 
time thats passed. Thats understandable, but nonetheless Ive reviewed what is available. 
HSBCs notes do seem to indicate that a settlement figure was generated, and probably 
sent, around the time that Mr Ps mother wrote to it. That looks to have happened a few days 
after shed made her payment towards Mr Ps loan. Theres nothing, though, which 
definitively shows the information was disclosed to her directly, like in a telephone call, for 
example. 
Importantly, as our investigator explained, its key to remember that it isnt for our service to 
decide whether theres been a breach of data protection regulations. So, to be clear, Im making no comment on whether HSBC has or hasnt done so. Thats a matter for a court or 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. So, if Mr P still has concerns about 
HSBCs actions in this regard, he can contact the ICO.
 
In any event, Ive seen that HSBC has apologised if it did wrongly send out a settlement 
figure. Thats what Id expect it to do, if indeed this did happen. And solely as an observation, 
even if I was to adopt the position that HSBC likely sent a settlement figure when it shouldnt 
have, Ive not been provided with anything to show that it caused impact to Mr P  like a 
specific financial loss  as a result. Instead, the only event Ive seen to have occurred is that 
the loan defaulted  which Im satisfied wouldve happened anyway. 
 
Its with all of that in mind that, while I know what Ive set out here wont be the answer Mr P 
is hoping for, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman