DRN-3847959
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded money she lost as a result of a 
scam. 
Mrs S is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to her throughout the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In April 2019 Mrs S received an e-mail from 
a third-party, Ill refer to here as T, who said they were working for a well-known bank 
overseas. T told Mrs S she had been left some inheritance (around $18,358,410) from a 
relative abroad living in the same country as her mother was from. 
After receiving documents from T, Mrs S was convinced to start sending money to T to pay 
for legal fees. Mrs S was also told the money couldnt be transferred to the UK so she was 
asked to open an off-shore account. T arranged all of this for Mrs S and T told her that the 
fee to open the account would be paid for by him as Mrs S didnt have the £1,600 that was 
necessary to open the account. Mrs S then made in total £9,992.79 to T via bank transfer 
and her debit card with some of the payments being sent to legitimate electronic money 
transfer companies. 
Mrs S started to become suspicious when she couldnt access the funds in the offshore 
account. She contacted the bank where T had said the account had been set up and she 
was told that there was no money in it. Mrs S then realised she had been scammed. 
In November 2021 Mrs S raised the scam with Barclays. Barclays reviewed the claim and 
said it shouldve done more to stop the payments. But it was only willing to refund half of the 
money Mrs S had lost. It said that Mrs S should take some responsibility for the scam. 
Barclays also paid £150 compensation for the time it took to look into the claim. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she decided to bring her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She said she was vulnerable at the time she fell for the scam because 
she was struggling financially which meant she was more susceptible to the persuasiveness 
of T. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said because Barclays 
accepted it shouldve done more to stop the payments then he didnt have to decide whether 
it shouldve done more. He said that the partial refund Barclays had offered was fair and that 
Mrs S shouldve acted on her initial suspicion of the scam before agreeing to make the 
payments. He added that the amount involved in the scam didnt seem plausible he didnt 
think Mrs S was given a reasonable basis to believe the payments were for a legitimate 
purpose. 
The investigator said that due to the time that had passed between Mrs S making the 
payments and the scam claim being made that it was unlikely the payments could be 
recovered.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the payments were 
unusual so they should all be refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Barclays has admitted that more shouldve been done to prevent the payments being made 
towards this scam. The only reason there is a disagreement here is because of the reduction 
Barclays made to the refund due to it saying that Mrs S didnt act reasonably. So, Ive not 
considered whether more shouldve been done by Barclays to stop and speak to Mrs S at 
the time of the scam. 
Did Mrs S act reasonably?
Barclays has said it only refunded half the amount Mrs S lost to T because it didnt seem 
plausible that she was due to inherit such a large sum of money. Mrs S said that she was 
vulnerable at the time due to her financial hardship and being on benefits. 
I accept that Mrs S was struggling at the time and Im not making light of her struggles. Ive 
considered what shes said carefully. I can see that Mrs S said she received documents and 
what appeared to be legitimate identification documents from the scammers. But Ive also 
noted that this scam was discovered after a simple call to the offshore bank to see if the 
money was in the account as T had described. 
So, although I do understand the points Mrs S has raised, I dont think Barclays has unfairly 
decided that a reduction of half the money she lost is unreasonable. I agree with the 
investigator that it doesnt seem plausible to inherit such a large amount of money in the 
circumstances here. 
As a result, Im not going to ask Barclays to increase its offer. 
Recovery of the debit card payments
While I think that T was operating a scam at the time of Mrs Ss payments, the chargeback 
scheme rules dont automatically entitle her to a refund based on these circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer and this is the most important reason here due to the time 
that passed before Barclays was made aware of the scam. It was over two years after the scam took place that Mrs S made her claim. This was outside of the timeframe (120 days) 
set by Visa to try and make a successful chargeback. 
So, I dont think Barclays treated Mrs S unfairly by not raising a chargeback here as it was 
unlikely to be successful. 
Recovery of the bank transfers
Barclays didnt attempt to recover the money Mrs S sent here due to the time that had 
passed. 
When a scam is raised its good practice for Barclays to raise a scam as soon as possible. 
The reason being that funds being sent as part of a scam are known to be moved extremely 
quickly. So, it follows that a claim that is raised more than two years after the payments are 
made means I think its extremely unlikely the money would still be in the accounts. Ive also 
seen that the majority of the payments Mrs S sent were to legitimate electronic money 
transfer companies with others being sent internationally where its more difficult to recover 
funds compared to domestic payments. 
So, I dont think Barclays treated Mrs S unfairly by not attempting to recover her money due 
to the time that had passed. 
Barclays has said it paid Mrs S £150 for the time it took to respond to the complaint. That 
seems reasonable to me for the delays Barclays caused. 
So, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman