DRN-4187311
The complaint
Mr B complains that CarCashPoint Limited (CCPL) irresponsibly granted him a logbook
loan (loan) he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In June 2022 CCPL granted Mr B a loan for £1,560 secured against his car. Under the terms
of this loan  everything else being equal  Mr B undertook to pay CCPL 36 monthly
payments of £168.14 making a total repayable of £6,053.04 at an APR of 230.68%.
In January 2023 Mr B complained to CCPL that its decision to lend to him in June 2022 was
irresponsible.
In response CCPL issued Mr B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL
CCPL said it was satisfied its decision to lend to Mr B was responsible.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who concluded that it should be
upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied that CCPL had carried out reasonable and
proportionate checks. But having carried out those checks it should have concluded it wasnt
appropriate (on the grounds of affordability) to lend to Mr B.
CCPL responded to the adjudicators view to say that it disagreed with it.
The adjudicator considered CCPLs response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change
his mind. And because of this Mr Bs complaint was passed to me for review and
decision.
In May 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in summary:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CCPL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to
these complaints is set out on our website.
I would also like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mr Bs complaint
that CCPL irresponsibly granted him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. Im not considering
any other complaint Mr B might have about CCPL including, but not restricted to, its
management and administration of that loan after it was granted.
CCPL says that before agreeing to lend to Mr B it completed a credit reference agency
check, reviewed Mr Bs bank statements for the three month period April to June 2022 and
other relevant information. And like the adjudicator Im satisfied that these checks were both
reasonable and proportionate.
So, what I now need to decide is having carried out both reasonable and proportionate
checks did CCPL make a fair lending decision. The adjudicator concluded that CCPL didnt,
but I disagree. Let me explain why.
As well as asking Mr B what his income and expenditure was, CCPL carried out a detailed
analysis of his bank account activity to independently verify the same. And having carried
out this analysis it concluded that Mr B had a net disposable monthly income, after paying its
loan cost of £168, of £151.
Now Ive reviewed CCPLs analysis of Mr Bs bank statements and Im satisfied that its
calculation of Mr Bs net disposable monthly income at £151 is both fair and reasonable. And
for the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that Im satisfied that in coming to a figure of £151
CCPL acted reasonably in not including £332 of cash withdrawals on the grounds these
withdrawals were for discretionary expenditure.
Now in my view a calculated net disposable monthly income of £151 (after paying CCPLs
loan cost of £168 and non-discretionary expenditure of £126) was enough for CCPL to have
fairly decided to lend to Mr B. But if a council tax cost of £120 was excluded from the
calculation (on the grounds it wasnt a liability payable by Mr B) and bank credits (over and
above Mr Bs basic salary of £4,185) were included in the calculation it could be said that
Mr Bs net disposable monthly income (after paying CCPLs loan cost of £168) was
substantially more than £151.
I also think that the above analysis needs to be considered in conjunction with the other
checks CCPL says it undertook.
CCPL said its checks returned no county court judgements, defaults or arrears in Mr Bs
name or any bankruptcy proceedings. Now Ive not seen a copy of these checks, but in the
absence of any evidence from Mr B to the contrary, Ive no reason to doubt what CCPL says
in this respect.
The above, together with Mr Bs confirmation that in June 2022 he had been with the same
employer for more than two years and the fact that between April and June 2022 Mr Bs
bank account was never more than £51 overdrawn, only ever overdrawn for a few days, and
no payments (such as direct debits and standing orders) were not paid, leads me to
conclude that CCPL didnt act irresponsibly in lending to Mr B in June 2022.
Finally, I dont dispute that shortly after being granted the loan Mr B may have experienced
financial difficulties. But this, in itself, doesnt mean CCPL acted irresponsibly in lending to
him in the first place in June 2022.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was hoping for, but Ive simply seen insufficient
evidence to conclude that this logbook loan was irresponsibly granted.
Mr B responded to say he disagreed with my provisional decision and to provide me with 
what he says is evidence that he has three CCJs (totalling just over £2,000), an 
October 2019 registered default (for approximately £10,000) and over £14,000 in debt.
CCPL responded to provide me with evidence of the credit check it undertook in June 2022 
and what this check uncovered, this being that: 
Mr B had 0 CCJs registered against him
Mr B had credit (across 8 accounts) of a little over £1,750
Mr B had 6 defaults registered against him totalling a little over £1,500the largest default was for £500
the latest default (for £71) was over six months old
the other 5 defaults were between two and half and five and half years old
there was no record of a default registered in October 2019 for approximately 
£10,000
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to make it clear that Im satisfied that both parties have had sufficient time 
to provide everything they would like me to take into account in this case. And because of 
this I see no reason to delay the issue of this decision.  
Mr B questions how Im able to come to a different finding to that of the adjudicator. 
Put simply Im not bound by what an adjudicator may have found. My role is to make a 
finding based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and this 
can, on occasions (as is the case here) be different to the findings of the adjudicator.
I dont dispute that Mr B may currently have three CCJs registered against him. But he has 
provided no evidence as to when these were first registered and its entirely possible they 
were registered after June 2022. But even if this isnt the case, Im satisfied  based on what 
CCPL has now provided our service  that its credit check (undertaken in good faith in 
June 2022) returned no CCJs registered against Mr B.
I also dont dispute that Mr B may currently have a default registered against him (for over 
£10,000) dated October 2019. But Im satisfied  based on what CCPL has now provided 
our service  that its credit check (undertaken in good faith in June 2022) didnt return this 
default. And on this point I would add that CCPL cant be held responsible for what other 
businesses might register (if anything), when and with what credit reference agency.
I will now turn to what was clearly the recording, in June 2022, of six defaults in Mr Bs 
name. In my provisional decision I said 
CCPL said its checks returned no county court judgements, defaults or arrears in Mr Bs
name or any bankruptcy proceedings. Now Ive not seen a copy of these checks, but in the
absence of any evidence from Mr B to the contrary, Ive no reason to doubt what CCPL says
in this respect.
But actually, what CCPL said is that its checks returned [no] current arrears or defaults of 
debt [my emphasis]. Now I dont know how CCPL defines current. But having reviewed the 
outcome of the credit check it undertook I dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude 
that the existence of these six defaults werent, in themselves, grounds for it to not lend. I 
would also add that when considering whether CCPL made a fair lending decision regards to 
the market in which it operates needs to be taken into account.
For the sake of completeness, I can confirm that Ive considered again CCPLs calculation of 
Mr Bs net disposable monthly income. And having done so I remain of the view that 
calculation is, in all material respects, accurate and a calculated net disposable monthly 
income of £151 shouldnt have caused CCPL to conclude it shouldnt lend to Mr B. I would 
also like to reiterate that it could be said (for reasons I dont repeat here) that Mr B had a 
disposable net income of more than £151.It's clear from Mr Bs response to my provisional decision that he has very strong feelings 
about this case. But having regards to what both parties have said and submitted, both 
originally and in response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision and above that CCPL didnt act irresponsibly in lending to 
Mr B in June 2022, and it need do nothing further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman