DRN-1576308
The complaint
P is a limited company. It complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
ought not to have authorised a card payment, which was later refunded to the cardholder 
through a chargeback. 
One of the companys directors, Mr G, brings the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
P has a shop. It sells products to customers face-to-face. It has a card reader to take 
payments, and Barclaycard provides it with the necessary payment services.
P took a card payment of £1,150 when selling one of its products last August. The payment 
was taken by entering the card details manually into the card reader.
While payment was taken successfully at the time, Barclaycard received a chargeback 
request from the card issuer a couple of months later. It said the cardholder hadnt 
authorised or participated in this transaction, so it was seeking a return of the payment.
Mr G challenged the chargeback. He told Barclaycard that the payment had been taken in 
good faith. He said the customer had been present, and signed to authorise the transaction. 
And the payment had been processed successfully at the time, for which P had received an 
authorisation code. 
But Barclaycard said that wasnt sufficient. It said that P was required to obtain a verification 
voucher  which would include an imprint of the card  when transactions couldnt be 
swiped through the reader. So without that, it couldnt defend the chargeback. And so the 
payment of £1,150 was returned to the cardholder. 
Mr G complained, but Barclaycard stood by its decision. So he referred his concerns to us. 
He believed that P had acted reasonably  and that if there was a problem with the card, 
Barclaycard shouldnt have authorised the transaction in the first place. So he wanted it to 
honour the £1,150 payment that had been reversed.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think Barclaycard had done 
anything wrong. He explained that the authorisation code had simply indicated that at the 
time, the card hadnt been reported as lost or stolen. And more broadly, he thought that 
Barclaycard had been clear with P on what it needed to do when handling transactions like 
this. Its terms and conditions, along with an operating guide, explained that a card imprint 
was required to prove that the card had been seen. As P didnt have that kind of evidence, 
our investigator thought Barclaycard had fairly decided that it couldnt defend the 
chargeback.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He still didnt think Barclaycard ought to have 
authorised the transaction. So the complaint was passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs main concern with what happened is that Barclaycard allowed the 
transaction to go through. He says that there was no alert to indicate anything suspicious 
about the card  i.e. that it might have been lost or stolen  and that it was authorised. I have 
some sympathy with what he says. If the card had been flagged as lost or stolen, then hes 
right to expect an alert to have been issued when the payment was attempted. 
But of course there are also times when a card has yet to be reported as lost or stolen, 
meaning that transactions are only recognised as being unauthorised or fraudulent after the 
event. There are various other problems that can arise too, such as cards being cloned. So 
the authorisation code doesnt guarantee that there are no issues whatsoever with the card, 
or the transaction. It only assures the seller that there are sufficient funds to cover the 
transaction and that the card hasnt been reported as lost or stolen at the time. So I dont 
think Barclaycard made an error in allowing the transaction to go through, and I cant see 
that it had any reason to suspect there were any issues with it.
Ive also thought about whether Barclaycard ought to have defended the chargeback. But 
like our investigator, Ive not found its decision not to do so unreasonable. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
I understand that Chip and PIN couldnt be used here as the card in question was issued 
overseas. A back-up option is to swipe the card through the reader. That wasnt used here 
either. Instead the card number was manually entered into the terminal. There is evidently 
higher risk of challenge here  in that theres very little evidence that either the card or 
cardholder was actually present. This danger  and the appropriate mitigation  was set out 
in Barclaycards Procedure Guide. It explained that an imprint of the card should be taken 
to prove that it was seen at the time of the transaction. That should then be retained as 
valuable evidence  without it, the transaction could be charged back to the business.
This scenario is also specifically provided for within the terms and conditions of Ps 
agreement with Barclaycard. These say that payments can be charged back to the account if 
challenged by the card issuer  with a specific example being where face-to-face 
transactions are made by manually entering the card number and failing to obtain a card 
imprint, as here. 
P didnt have that voucher. Without it, there was very little evidence to show that the card 
was used in the transaction, or that it was authorised by the genuine cardholder. So I think 
Barclaycard reasonably decided that it couldnt successfully defend the chargeback.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly. It had no reason to 
block or challenge the initial transaction. Its decision not to defend the chargeback was 
reasonable, and the payment was reversed in line with the terms and conditions. And it had 
clearly explained to P how to handle transactions like these, and the potential consequences 
of not doing so. So while I have considerable sympathy for Mr G as his business has clearly 
lost out despite acting in good faith, I cant fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman