DRN-4161019
The complaint
Mr C says James Hay Administration Company Limited (James Hay) unilaterally cancelled a 
standing order arrangement linked to his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which 
resulted in no income being paid into his pension for 18 Months. He wants all fees during 
this period to be refunded.
What happened
Mr C was a part of a syndicate whose members held an interest in a commercial property in 
their individual SIPPs. Rent from the tenant was paid into a pooled bank account with Bank 
A. Standing orders were established to transfer each members share of the rent into their 
own SIPP accounts. The arrangement appears to have been established in 2005.
In July 2019 Mr C wrote to James Hay confirming lead responsibility for administration 
matters in respect of the commercial property had passed to another member of the 
syndicate (Mr Z).
In July 2020 James Hay notified customers and counterparties of changes it was making to 
its banking arrangements. It set out the new details to be used from September 2020. 
Reminder communications were sent in August and September 2020.
In September 2020 Mr Z wrote to James Hay confirming members of the syndicate had 
received its notification of the banking changes. He asked it to amend the standing orders so 
that rent would continue to flow to member SIPPs. James Hay responded saying that as the 
Bank A account was external it had no control over the standing orders.
Between October and November 2020 there were further communications between Mr Z 
and James Hay as he sought to clarify requirements, such as the number of standing orders 
to be established and the new bank details. In January 2021 Mr Z wrote to Bank A again 
asking for it to action his instructions to make the necessary changes.
It wasnt until November 2021 that Mr Z contacted James Hay noting that Bank A still hadnt 
made the necessary changes to the banking details. He asked for assistance from James 
Hay, but it said hed have to chase the bank.
In March 2022 James Hay received an email from Mr Z confirming that since the closure of 
the individual SIPP bank accounts all the rental monies have been returned to the Bank A 
account. He confirmed hed instructed the bank on several occasions to cancel the old 
standing orders and set up a new one. 
For a new standing order to be set up Bank A had explained the request would need to be 
signed by people from the authorised signature list. James Hay replied a week later 
explaining the signatory list held by the bank was out of date. A current signatory list was 
provided to Mr Z, together with a power of attorney (PoA) document. It asked Mr Z to confirm 
with Bank A it would accept the new signatory list and PoA.
Towards the end of April 2022 Bank A confirmed that any instruction should be signed by a 
person on the signatory list they currently hold, or alternatively, the banking mandate would 
need to be updated with a new signatory list. 
At this point James Hay acknowledge that due to internal communication errors, it continued 
to follow up with Mr Z to seek confirmation that Bank A could accept the new signatory list, 
rather than sending him the required information to update the mandate and then provide 
instructions for the standing order. It didnt do this until the end of June 2022, around 2 
months after it shouldve.
Between July and September 2022 James Hay chased Bank A to confirm whether the 
paperwork that had been provided met its requirements and the changes to the 
arrangements could be made. The position wasnt finalised until October 2022.
As well as the communications between Mr Z, James Hay and Bank A, other members of 
the syndicate were also in touch with the SIPP administrator. This concerned matters such 
as rental payment reconciliation, as well as about the non-receipt of income into their SIPPs.
From January 2022 Mr Cs independent financial adviser (IFA) sought to clarify what had 
happened to the rental income payments he shouldve been receiving. And on 21 June 
2022, unsatisfied with James Hays responses to date, she raised a formal complaint on his 
behalf about what was happening.
James Hay responded to Mr Cs complaint on 29 July 2022. It noted the syndicate had lead 
responsibility for property management matters. And that its actions had to be directed by 
members. It did accept responsibility for some of the delay in getting the banking 
arrangements put right due to poor communications with Mr Z about what needed to be 
done between April and June 2022. But it didnt agree it should refund any fees hed paid. It 
apologised for the things it had got wrong and offered him £150 in recognition of this.
Mr C didnt accept James Hays response and he brought his case to this Service. An 
Investigator reviewed his complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think it would be fair to 
blame James Hay for all the delays and errors. She considered the role of third parties to 
have been significant. And she thought it had made a reasonable offer in recognition of the 
things it had got wrong.
Mr C didnt accept the Investigators findings and conclusions. He reiterated that James Hay 
had cancelled the banking arrangements without putting new ones in place. He said that its 
poor housekeeping, including not having an up to date list of signatories, had led to Bank As 
account being frozen. He said its actions meant syndicate members couldnt effectively 
manage their interests. And he said it took too long for it to respond to his concerns.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh and to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by James Hay for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
In bringing his complaint to this Service Mr C said:
James Hay unilaterally cancelled established standing orders without setting up new ones 
resulting in no income being paid into my account from May 2021 to October 2022. The 
account was not incremented yet James Hay withdrew their fees totalling £1,334.74 
depleting the account and irrespective of the lack of funds being paid in.
James Hay decided to change its banking arrangements in 2020. It isnt for this Service to 
determine how it runs its operations. Nevertheless we would expect that in making any 
changes it treats its customers fairly and communicates with them effectively.
James Hay notified its customers of the changes it was making in July 2020 and concluded 
that letter in the following terms:
If youre happy to accept the changes were making, you just need to start using the new 
bank details provided overleaf from 7 September 2020. No further action is then required.
If youre not happy to accept the changes, you have the option to transfer your SIPP to 
another provider, so please carefully read the relevant section in the enclosed information for 
more details. Please note that even if you decide to transfer away, youll still need to use the 
new bank details if you make any payments into your SIPP from 7 September 2020.
The bank details above are to be used for all single payments and any standing order 
payments made into your SIPP from 7 September 2020.
James Hay followed up the initial communication with further letters in August and 
September 2020. We know that members of the syndicate received notification of the 
changes it was making. And Mr Z engaged with the issue on its behalf from September 
2020. But after some initial activity and him pursuing matters with Bank A there was a lag in 
his contact with James Hay for nearly a year until November 2021 at which point he 
informed it the bank hadnt taken the action hed requested. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to hold James Hay responsible for this hiatus.Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Cs SIPP, Im satisfied members of the 
syndicate were primarily responsible for matters related to management of the commercial 
property. That included receiving rent into an external bank account. And as administrator, 
James Hay could only act on their instructions.
James Hay has accepted responsibility for contributing to a delay in getting the banking 
arrangements in place. Thats because it was informed by Bank A in April 2022 what would 
be required in terms of updating the mandate and the authorised signature list. But it failed to 
relay this to Mr Z until June 2022. It offered an apology and compensation of £150 for this 
failing.
The other third party which had an influence on what happened between 2020 and 2022 was 
Bank A. I note that both syndicate members and James Hay have raised complaints about 
the services it provided during the relevant period.
Mr C complained about not receiving rental income into his SIPP for 18 months. I recognise 
his concern and frustration. But when I consider the role of the main parties involved in the 
delay in putting the new banking arrangements in place, Ive concluded the impact of James 
Hays failings was more likely than not of a second order of magnitude.
Mr C said he hadnt received rental income payments into his SIPP between May 2021 and 
October 2022. But if there hadnt been a gap in communications about the new banking 
arrangements between Mr Z and James Hay for nearly a year from November 2020, then I 
think its more likely than not matters wouldve been resolved much earlier and prior to the 
period of missing payments Mr C now complains about.
James Hay did contribute to the delay in getting rental income from the commercial property 
held by the syndicate into members SIPPs. It apologised for its failings and offered Mr C 
£150 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. I think that was a reasonable offer in the 
circumstances. 
I dont think it would be fair to direct James Hay to refund all Mr Cs fees for the period 
between May 2021 and October 2022. Thats because it was still fulfilling a service to him 
and, as established, its role in the problems that emerged were less significant than the 
impact of the acts and omissions of third parties.
If it hasnt done so already, James Hay Administration Company Limited should honour its 
offer to Mr C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman