DRN-2221803
The complaint
Ms P complains she was wrongly advised by TenetConnect Services Limited, trading as 
TenetConnect, to invest in two Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
products instead of taking the National Health Services in-house options. In this complaint 
Ms P is represented by a claims management company, but for simplicity I will refer to Ms P 
throughout.
What happened
Ms P was advised to invest in two FSAVCs one in 1995 and the other in1997, by an 
appointed representative of Tenet. 
She complained to Tenet in 2019 that she had been wrongly advised. She said the products 
were unsuitable, the risks, implications and alternatives were not fully explained, and she 
was unaware of the higher charges associated with the FSAVCs.
In its final response, Tenet upheld her complaint. It said there was no evidence to show she 
had been told that had she purchased an in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) 
product the costs may have been lower than the FSAVCs she had been advised to 
purchase, and it was likely she would have taken the AVC option had she known. It said her 
purchasing added years would not have been suitable as she would have reached her 
maximum pensionable allowance of 40 years at her retirement age of 60. So it said it would 
compare the charges for both of the FSAVCs against the in-house AVC, and compensate 
her appropriately.
Ms P did not agree and complained to our service. She said she did have the option to 
purchase three added years and she would have done this instead of both the FSAVC or the 
in-house AVC. So the calculation should take this into account, and not just the charges.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. He didnt think it was likely that she would 
have opted to purchase added years at the time of the advice, so thought Tenet had been 
fair in its calculation of redress.
Ms P didnt agree and felt she would have taken the option to purchase added years but was 
never advised that this was possible, so she had suffered significant financial loss. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not disputed that Ms P was wrongly advised in 1995 and again in 1997 to purchase 
FSAVCs. What I need to decide is whether I think it is more likely, at that time, she would 
have decided to purchase three added years to take her pensionable service to its 
maximum at her retirement age, or to take the option of the in-house AVC. 
Ms P joined the NHS in 1993. Her normal retirement age will be 60, so given her age at 
joining she will have accrued 37 years of pensionable employment on retirement, with the 
maximum on the scheme being 40. So I dont agree with Tenet that she didnt have the 
option to purchase added years. Im satisfied she did. But, I dont think she would have taken 
this option. Ill explain why.
Ms P received financial planning advice from Tenet in 1995. Ive seen notes from this 
meeting. The notes have summarised her attitude to financial risk as balanced and her 
main priority was to be able to retire comfortably when she was 60. These notes appear to 
have been signed and dated by Ms P, so I think provide good evidence of her attitude to risk 
at the time. 
The monthly cost for added years was similar to what Ms P agreed to pay in 1995 for her 
FSAVC. Given she was a doctor in the NHS it was highly likely she would stay in the NHS 
pension scheme and that her salary would increase significantly over time. I also think these 
growing contributions would have been affordable for her. So I understand how, in hindsight, 
added years might look as if they were the best option for Ms P, particularly as investment 
returns and annuity rates are a lot lower than were expected to be in the 1980s and 1990s. 
But at the time Ms P received her advice, projections in an AVC would have looked like an 
attractive and cheaper option than added years.
Compared to the guaranteed benefits of added years, there was some risk attached to 
AVCs. Added years were suitable for consumers that were particularly risk averse. Given 
that Ms P was many years from retirement and that she had stated she had a balanced 
attitude to risk, this doesnt seem to apply to her. Also, given that she was potentially 
expecting to have 37 years of service providing guaranteed defined benefits which would 
provide the majority of her pension, she was able to take some risk with a small proportion of 
her retirement benefits.
AVCs are also more flexible which might have seemed attractive. Ms P didnt have to 
commit at the start of her career to make larger contributions over many years when flexible, 
cheaper contributions showed good potential to achieve higher returns from an AVC. And 
these would have been higher in an AVC, compared to an FSAVC, as charges were lower. 
Added years, in the NHS pension, would automatically have come with additional benefits, 
like an automatic spouses or dependents pension. But having seen the notes from the 
advisory meeting in 1995, I dont think this was important to her at the time. She was single, 
and wouldnt have known if she needed these additional benefits in the future. AVCs gave 
the option to draw benefits on a single basis. 
So given all of the above, Im satisfied that Ms P would probably have taken the in-house 
AVC and not added years, so I think Tenet have been fair in their outcome that the redress 
due should be from a charges comparison between the FSAVCs and the in-house AVC.
I understand Ms P is concerned that she was advised to start a new FSAVC in 1997, and not 
just increase her contributions to her existing plan. We dont know the exact reasons, but 
some older plans didnt accept new contributions levels which is a possible reason why a 
new plan had to be established. In any event, when doing the calculation on a charges 
basis, any additional charges will be accounted for.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Its up to Ms P to decide whether she accepts Tenets existing 
offer.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman