DRN-2134799
The complaint
Mr L complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining his claim under a business legal expenses insurance policy. He 
wants the claim accepted.
What happened
Mr L had a legal expenses insurance policy that covered his business, E. The policy started 
in November 2018 and was taken out through a broker. He wanted to make a claim in 
November 2019 under the policy as he was facing legal proceedings concerning allegations 
that he was blocking a right of way affecting his home, but it was declined. DAS explained 
that the policy only covered Mr Ls business, and that for property claims, it only covered 
counterclaims against Mr L if they were insured events.
Mr L complained and said that he was defending his position, not bringing a counterclaim. 
His solicitors wrote and explained that the allegation was that Mr L was blocking the right of 
way through the installation of gates in 2015 (and harassing and causing nuisance to the 
claimants). The said that Mr L wanted to counterclaim for damage, harassment and 
nuisance. DAS said that rights of way were excluded from the policy and repeated that the 
claim was against Mr L personally, not E which was the insured entity. It pointed out that the 
claim arose from the replacement of gates in 2015, which pre-dated the start of the policy 
and wasnt covered in any event.
Mr L complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that the policy did set out clearly what it covered, and Mr Ls claim was excluded as 
the policy only covered E, not Mr L generally. The investigator also said the policy would 
only cover defences against counterclaims involving an insured event, which didnt apply 
here, and it seemed that the date of occurrence was when the gates were installed in 2015, 
which was before the policy came into force.
Mr L disagreed. He sent information about his property and said he should be covered by 
the policy. Mr L said that the policy didnt make it clear that counterclaims were only covered 
if hed brought a claim relating to an insured event or that it only covered his business. He 
also explained that gates had been present on the land since 1927 and hed only replaced 
them in 2015 due to vandalism. The investigator didnt change her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to DAS, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the policy and insurance schedule themselves. Mr L is a sole trader 
running a business, and his insurance is in the name of Mr L trading as E. It is a business 
insurance policy and taken out through a broker, who was responsible for selling the policy 
to Mr L and ensuring that it was suitable to meet his needs. The policy says that it protects 
Mr Ls business as shown in the insurance schedule. This isnt the same as covering Mr L 
personally, though I understand that he works from home when he isnt on-site. The claim 
Mr L faces is a personal claim against him relating to his home  there is no connection to E; 
this is confirmed by the information from Mr Ls solicitors sent to DAS.
The terms and conditions of the policy says in relation to property protection that it excludes 
defending your legal rights, other than the defence of a counter-claim that is an insured 
incident under this policy. In other words, Mr L cant use the policy to defend a claim against 
him relating to property unless he is defending a counterclaim against him arising out of a 
claim he has brought against someone and the counterclaim relates to something thats 
insured under the policy. This isnt the case here so the claim isnt covered.
The policy also says that the date of occurrence is For civil cases (other than as specified 
under (c) to (f) below), the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one 
event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the 
date of the first of these events. For the claim against Mr L, this appears to be when he 
replaced the gates in 2015 as the later events he refers to in his witness statement is later 
than this. The insurance only covers events that arise between November 2018 and 
November 2019, but the date of occurrence under the policy for the claim against Mr L is 
2015. Mr Ls claim is excluded for this reason too.
The policy sets out what it will and wont cover. It only covers claims involving Mr Ls 
business, such as debt recovery, employment claims, and issues with data protection. In 
relation to property protection and nuisance, the circumstances of Mr Ls claim isnt covered 
due to the exclusion set out above. Having considered the terms and conditions of the 
policy, Im satisfied that the policy doesnt cover Mr Ls claim as it only covered E, excluded 
the claim and arises from an incident pre-dating the policy.
I then thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for DAS to decline the claim in the 
circumstances. Mr L says that the policy wasnt clear. Having looked at it, I think it is and as 
it is a commercial policy, with a broker advising Mr L, I would point out that the requirements 
are different compared to a policy for a member of the public  theres an expectation that 
commercial businesses can understand more complex documents, with the aid of their 
broker if required. That said, the policy is clearly drafted and sets out using tables what is 
and isnt covered, and the schedule is clear that only E is covered.
I think DAS acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ls claim as it only agreed to cover E, 
not personal claims against Mr L, and because it set out the exclusion and date of 
occurrence definition clearly within the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or reject my decision before 
16 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman