DRN-3882053
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc transferred money out of his ISA that he didnt agree 
to. Hed like to be adequately compensated for the distress this caused.
What happened
Mr F holds an ISA with Santander. His IFA submitted a request to transfer a partial balance 
of £30,000 to another provider. However, it appears two forms were submitted by the IFA, 
which led to two transfers being made. Mr F raised a complaint saying these funds had been 
transferred without his authorisation. Santander responded to say that they didnt think this 
was a mistake on their part. They explained theyd received two transfer forms, so carried 
out the request as per the instructions.
Unhappy with this response Mr F referred his complaint to our service. He said he was 
without access to these funds as the new provider had no paperwork from Santander about 
the transfer. He was in the process of getting a mortgage at the time and was worried about 
how a lender would see these transactions. He also complained about Santander had 
handled his request for call recordings between them while trying to sort this out.
Before one of our investigators could begin looking into the complaint the duplicate transfer 
was returned to Mr Fs ISA. Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She 
accepted that Santander had received two transfer forms. But she felt this came about as 
Santander had told the IFA they hadnt received the original request, so Santander could 
have noted this to prevent a double payment. Taking into account these failings and Mr Fs 
difficulty in requesting his personal data, she suggested Santander pay Mr F £400 
compensation.
Santander accepted this, but Mr F disagreed. He said he had to spend over 35 hours on the 
phone trying to resolve the situation. He said the situation had negatively impacted his health 
and relationships. He believed he should receive compensation between £5,750 and £8,500. 
The investigator didnt agree such a level of compensation was warranted, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im satisfied that Santander did receive two transfer requests from the IFA. But I think 
its crucial to point out here that the IFA only did so because Santander asked for a second 
one when they couldnt find a record of the first. Mr F was only intending to transfer £30,000. 
Had Santander kept a record of this, or cross referenced it with the correspondence theyd 
received, then they could have noticed this was a duplicate request. Or at the very least 
contacted Mr F or his IFA to clarify the instructions. Santander have now accepted they 
made an error in executing both instructions.
Our services approach to resolving complaints about financial loss is that firstly when 
something has gone wrong, the bank should put the consumer back in the position they 
would have been in had the error not occurred. In this case Santander have returned the 
funds to Mr Fs ISA and reworked the account as if theyd never left. This is what Id expect 
to see. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest there were further losses to Mr F caused by 
this transfer. So, Im satisfied Mr F is now back in the position he should have been in.
Ive gone on to consider the distress and inconvenience caused by the bank to Mr F. Ive 
carefully considered Mr Fs submissions on this point and reviewed what Santander have 
said. I accept it would have been troubling to Mr L to find that double the amount of money 
had been transferred in error, and he would want this rectified as quickly as possible. I agree 
that a degree of compensation is appropriate. 
When our service awards compensation it isnt intended as a punishment or fine to the 
business for any errors they may have made  this isnt the role of our service. Instead what 
we consider is the impact of that error, and then decide what would be fair compensation to 
reflect that impact.
In this case it took three weeks from when the error was noticed to when the balance in the 
Santander ISA was restored. I accept this will have been a stressful time for Mr F. But I also 
recognise the issue didnt go on over an extended period.  Ive considered Mr Fs concern 
about how these account movements may be perceived by a mortgage lender. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest this has had any effect after the funds were returned to the ISA. Im sorry 
to hear how Mr F feels these events have impacted his health and relationships. The 
frustration and upset caused by the duplicate payment will have been compounded by the 
difficulty he then had in getting the data hed requested. It took longer than I would expect to 
see for him to receive this.
Taking this all into account, I cant see that the impact was significant or sustained enough 
for me to award the amounts Mr F has requested. Im satisfied that £400 is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the impact of the problems with the duplicate payment, and the 
customer service he received trying to resolve the problem.
My final decision
My final decision is Santander UK Plc must pay Mr F £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman