DRN-2795171
The complaint
Ms K complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made on a home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Where I reference Aviva within this decision, this includes the actions of its agents and 
representatives.
Ms K insures a property with Aviva. She made a claim on her policy for damage caused by 
subsidence. Shes previously referred a complaint about the way this has been handled by 
Aviva to our service, but has made a new complaint about delays during the claim.
Our investigator thought that there were a number of delays to the claim which were 
avoidable and that this should be recognised by Aviva. He acknowledged that there were 
occasions when delays were outside of Avivas control, but he considered that the overall 
impact of the delays which were Avivas responsibility was significant. He said that Aviva 
should pay £1000 in compensation to Ms K.
Aviva agreed with this, but Ms K didnt. She said that the delays had resulted in her incurring 
a large amount of debt and so she should be compensated for this. As no agreement could 
be reached, her complaint has come to me to give a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that there were avoidable delays during the claim, and it seems to be accepted 
that Ms Ks complaint about these primarily centres on the fact that 20 months elapsed from 
her being told that piling works were likely to be required and Aviva authorising these to 
proceed.
The evidence suggests that the piling works to resolve the cause of the subsidence were 
suggested by Aviva, but a few days later it was indicated that it preferred to carry out 
monitoring of the property to establish the extent and nature of the movement. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Aviva acted unfairly in this regard, but I do think that this could have 
been communicated better to Ms K, and an explanation provided of what was happening, 
and of the timescales involved.
Aviva doesnt now dispute that the decision to proceed to repairs could have been taken 
sooner. During the period of 20 months, most of this was spent monitoring the movement of 
the property. While I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to carry out the monitoring, I 
do question why this went on for such a prolonged period of time. It was known from the 
outset there were previous incidents of movement of the property and it being known that the 
property was currently moving. Aviva hasnt disputed that this could have been completed 
sooner. I can appreciate Ms Ks frustration when, at the end of this period, the repairs 
agreed by Aviva were what had been suggested from the outset. 
Subsidence claims, by their nature, can take a significant period of time to be resolved, and 
involve a great degree of inconvenience on the part of the policyholder depending in the 
cause and the investigations and repairs required . But its the insurers responsibility to keep 
this to a minimum and ensure that the claim is handled promptly and effectively. The length 
of time taken for Aviva to settle on the best method to repair the property was, I think, 
excessive.
I dont hold Aviva responsible for the entire period in question. As Ive said, Id expect the 
necessary actions to progress the claim to have taken some time, and the initial Covid-19 
related national lockdown occurred during this period, which prevented Aviva from 
proceeding with the claim as it would have liked to. I cant put a definitive length of delays 
which are attributable to Aviva, but the impact on Ms K of this has been significant.
Ms Ks told us that she has experienced serious financial difficulties, and that if the claim had  
been resolved sooner then shed have been in a better position  shes unable to release 
equity in the property while the subsidence claim is ongoing. But I cant say there was a 
definite date that the property should have been repaired by, and I also cant say when shed 
have been able to secure an equity release or on what terms. I dont think it would be fair to 
say that Ms Ks financial difficulties are solely down to Avivas acts or omissions on this 
claim.
I do recognise the impact that Avivas poor handling of the claim has had on Ms K. Im 
satisfied it has caused a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. In the 
circumstances, I do find myself in agreement with our investigator that Aviva should pay 
£1000 in compensation to recognise this. I appreciate that this is less than Ms K thinks Aviva 
should pay but having considered the impact its had on her, and the extent for which Aviva is 
at fault, I think this is a suitable amount.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I order Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms K 
£1000 as compensation. Aviva must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that Ms K 
accepts our decision. If it does not it must pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
that date until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman