DRN-4196833
The complaint
A pension scheme trust which Ill call G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt set up
their online account correctly which caused them a financial loss.
The complaint is brought on Gs behalf by their trustees Mr G and Mrs G.
What happened
Mr G had existing online platform access which allowed him to carry out transactions for
three HSBC accounts; his business, an estate account for an entity which Ill call C who
collected rent on Gs behalf which would then be transferred to Gs pension scheme
account, and Gs pension scheme account, from which funds were transferred for
investment purposes for the pension scheme itself.
Mr G sold the business in June 2020. So he contacted HSBC to request that G and Cs
accounts were removed from the existing HSBCnet business platform as they would no
longer be linked to the business and new HSBCnet access for those accounts. G requested
new HSBCnet access as this provided the option required for their actuary to log in
separately and co-authorise any transactions requested by the scheme, in line with the
pension scheme rules. HSBC said this was an expensive option and recommended G have
Business Internet Banking (BIB) instead. On 30 July 2020, Mr G applied as suggested and
explained that hed had to travel abroad and wouldnt be able to provide any other contact
details at that time.
On 19 August, HSBC said it couldnt process Gs application as it needed confirmation from
their trustees that Mr G could release payments without co-authorisation and an updated
mandate. The new mandate was received on 9 September and shortly after, HSBC set up
the internet banking access and noted on its system that Gs transactions needed two
signatories to authorise transactions. However, on the same day, HSBC wrote to G to say it
intended to restrict their account on the basis they hadnt made any payments for twelve
months.
In mid-September, the security fob for Gs BIB account was sent to one of their trustees and
Mr G was made aware by the bank that he had sole authority to undertake transactions on
Gs behalf. Mr G explained to HSBC that this wasnt in line with the pension scheme rules
and requested Gs accounts be moved from BIB to HSBCnet as originally requested. Gs
accounts remained restricted during this time until early December when Mr G spoke to
HSBC and explained why G couldnt make any transactions.
Mr G went abroad for the second time in December 2020 and was unable to return until
June 2021 due to restrictions caused by the Covid pandemic. Shortly after returning, Mr G
complained to HSBC that hed only received HSBCnet access in July, so he hadnt been
able access C and Gs accounts for over seven months, which meant G couldnt make its
planned investment and had incurred a loss of around £39,000. He also said hed only been
made aware in June that there were cheque books for the accounts, which had not only
been sent to the old business address, but when hed used them as instructed, one had
been referred several times and the other had simply been rejected.
HSBC upheld the complaint in part. It said its service had been below the level G should
have received and offered £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused. However, the
bank said it didnt think it had done anything wrong when it had processed Gs cheques.
HSBC also said it wasnt responsible for Gs investment loss as it had written to the trustees
in December to say the HSBCnet account was active. It also said G couldve written
cheques or gone into a branch to make their investments.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed been in regular contact with HSBC, and it hadnt made him
aware prior to July that the HSBCnet access was set up, or that there was a cheque book
linked to the accounts as hed thought they were only online accounts. He also said HSBC
were aware that he was abroad so it should have contacted him in a different way to let him
know he could access Gs funds. So he asked this service to look into Gs complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and thought that HSBC should pay
a further £250 compensation and refund Gs investment loss. She said that HSBC had
provided limited evidence about the complaint despite numerous requests. She said HSBC
told us Gs HSBCnet account had been set up on 17 December, but there was no evidence
that they had been made aware of this or that G had accessed the system prior to July  so
they were without account access for seven months. She also thought there was sufficient
evidence to show G would have invested their funds if theyd had access to them and that G
hadnt been made aware by the bank, they could make payments using other methods.
G agreed with the investigators view but HSBC didnt. It said G had been given access to
their online accounts in December and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 June 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to make an award for Gs financial loss and overall I 
think £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused is fair. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed by either party that HSBC has caused inconvenience to G. Ive seen 
that Mr G asked the bank to provide the pension scheme with new HSBCnet access - 
which is what he had previously - but the bank said this was expensive and 
recommended he apply for BIB instead. However, HSBC would have been aware 
that BIB was the incorrect product as it wouldnt ever have allowed G to make 
transactions which were compliant with their pension scheme requirements. Ive seen 
internal notes from HSBC which show it was aware BIB wasnt a suitable option for 
the trust as the scheme restrictions required two signatories to authorise transactions 
 and BIB gave sole authority to Mr G. This caused an initial delay to G of several 
months.
G then applied for HSBCnet access in around August 2020, but their account wasnt
activated until July 2021  nearly year later. I acknowledge HSBC says G was sent a
standard confirmation email about their account access in mid-December 2020, but 
Im not persuaded thats the case. I say that because despite numerous requests, the 
bank hasnt been able to provide any evidence that this email was sent. Ive also 
seen that as soon as Mr G was aware in July that he could access G account he 
contacted HSBCnet and undertook transactions within a matter of days. Furthermore, 
Ive seen an email from HSBCnet dated 7 July, asking Mr G for feedback now that 
[he] was set up. This implies that Gs account only became active in July 2021  not 
December 2020. So I think G was caused inconvenience by HSBCs actions.However, I dont think the bank is responsible for Gs investment loss. I say this 
because, its not for me to fine or punish a business for a mistake and when looking 
at a consequential loss, I need to take into consideration what the complainant or in 
this case trustees did to mitigate their losses. Mr G told us that G couldnt make their 
planned investment without HSBCnet access, but Im not persuaded thats the case 
as he had access to a cheque book for the accounts. Mr G initially said that he wasnt 
aware of these as he thought the account was internet only but was then made 
aware theyd been sent to his previous business address. However, Ive seen 
evidence that G had previously issued cheques in 2018 and in November 2020, Mr G 
emailed the actuary about making a cheque payment for G. So I think its reasonable 
to believe that the investment could have been made using this method of payment.
I acknowledge that Mr G says he wouldnt have taken Gs chequebook abroad with 
him. However, given the delay that had taken place with the HSBCnet access, I think 
its reasonable to believe that Mr G could have issued a cheque before he left  given 
his obligation as a trustee, made further payments whilst he was abroad or passed 
the chequebook to the actuary to oversee in his absence to ensure that Gs 
transactions were made as planned. I recognise Mr G was abroad for around six 
months, and this would have caused some difficulty in obtaining both signatures to 
make the payments by cheque, however his location would still have allowed for post 
to be accessed in both directions and therefore for G to make its investments as 
planned.
Mr G also said that he was unable to undertake transactions because he didnt know 
the balance on the accounts and that hed made it clear to HSBC that he would be 
going abroad. However, Ive reviewed the emails from both parties, and I can see 
that Mr G was in regular contact with HSBC between October and early December 
and was provided with various information about Gs account. So I think its 
reasonable to believe that he could have requested the balance information during 
this time to allow G to make its planned investment.
Looking at the emails, I also havent seen any evidence that Mr G made HSBC 
aware at any point that G needed to make an investment or that he was going 
abroad on the second occasion in December 2020  only that he needed the online 
access. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr G or the actuary contacted HSBC 
by email or phone from 6 December onwards until June 2021 to explain Gs position 
or make the bank aware that they needed to make an investment. So I also dont 
think HSBC was given a reasonable opportunity to assist G and therefore mitigate 
the impact of its error.
I recognise that Mr G feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my 
decision as he believes HSBC should cover Gs investment loss. But based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think thats fair so, I wont be asking it to cover that loss. 
However, I think HSBC did cause G inconvenience by not providing G with the 
correct online platform for around twelve months which meant Mr G had to 
repeatedly contact the bank to resolve this. So to put things right I think HSBC should 
increase the compensation offered by £250 bringing the total to £500.
I invited G and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add other. G didnt accept the decision, they said in summary:
Mr G wasnt aware of a cheque book until July 2021 and therefore he couldnt take it 
abroad with him, this is also the reason he didnt pay a VAT bill which was due. It may have been a previous trustee had issued the cheque in 2018 as the cheque 
book which had been located at the previous business address in July was unused.
Mr G spoke to Gs relationship manager who was aware they couldnt access their 
accounts and said they couldnt do anything to help, nor did they make him aware 
there was a cheque book he could use. 
Mr G left the UK in December 2020, but he didnt initially intend to remain abroad 
until June 2021.However, hed made HSBC aware of the urgency of needing 
HSBCnet access by email, but he no longer had access to the emails, and despite 
repeated requests HSBC hadnt provided copies.  
HSBC didnt make Mr G aware until July 2021 that Gs account was active, and that 
there was a cheque book he could use to make payments. However, even if he had 
been made aware in December 2020, this was still a delay of six months which was 
unreasonable and led to Gs losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G maintains that he wasnt aware of the cheque book and that the previous cheque 
issued by G may have been issued by another trustee. He also says that he made HSBC 
aware of the urgency of providing access to Gs account and that his relationship manager 
was unable to help. Its difficult for me to reconcile Gs versions of events here, given that 
there are references to cheques being issued to make payments, and which of the trustees 
may have issued the original cheque in 2018. However, even if I discounted that G had 
access to a cheque book and could have made payments in this way, I still think they could 
have mitigated the losses they are complaining about. 
I recognise that Mr G says he made the bank aware of the urgency of having HSBCnet 
access, however I havent seen any evidence of this within any of the emails which have 
been provided by either party. Mr G believes HSBC have withheld this information despite 
numerous requests, but Im not persuaded thats the case here. I accept that its possible 
there were other emails between both parties, but I think its unlikely the bank hasnt 
disclosed these as it is obligated to comply with the services request for information. 
Furthermore, a large number of emails have been provided to this service, but none of them 
mention there has been or will be a significant impact on G from the delays in providing the 
HSBCnet access. 
So Im not persuaded that HSBC were aware G needed to make an urgent investment - or 
the VAT payment which Mr G has also mentioned. Nor was it aware that by not providing the 
log on details or facilitating an alternative for G to make these payments, it was foreseeable 
to the bank that the trust would incur a financial loss. I also think its reasonable to believe 
that if there was such a significant impact on G, that the trustees would have consistently 
made the bank aware of this. However, I havent seen any evidence G contacted HSBC 
between December 2020 and June 2021. 
I acknowledge Mr G says he wasnt intending to stay abroad during that time. But, given 
where Mr G says he was located abroad, I think its reasonable to believe he could have 
contacted the bank during that six-month period, or alternatively the actuary who was still in the UK could have done so on Gs behalf. Had they done so, I think its likely HSBC would 
have told them that the access had been provided in December and it had been able to 
resolve the issue G says it was experiencing. 
Mr G says that the delay in accessing Gs account caused by HSBC was unreasonable, and 
I agree that the banks service could have been better. So I have taken this into 
consideration when making my award for the inconvenience caused to G. However, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC is responsible for the financial loss G says it has been caused. So I 
wont be asking the bank to take any further action on this complaint point.  
Putting things right
I think its clear that HSBC handling of Gs online banking application and its subsequent 
actions caused them inconvenience. To put things right I think HSBC should pay G a further 
£250 compensation in addition to the £250 it has already offered, bringing the total to £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay G an 
additional £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. If it has not already done so, 
I also order it to pay the £250 it has already offered  bringing the total payment to £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman