DRN-3413203
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that UIA (Insurance) Limited caused their garden to flood by carrying 
out inappropriate repairs under a home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim on their home insurance policy due to their toilet backing up and 
foul water in their garden. 
UIA found the septic tank had suffered damage due to ground movement. However, it also 
concluded the damage to the septic tank wasnt causing the toilet to back up or the garden 
to flood, but rather, those issues were being caused by the soakaway. UIA concluded the 
soakaway had failed due to old age rather than an insured event, and it also noted 
soakaways arent covered by the policy. 
Nonetheless, because septic tanks are covered by the policy and it had suffered damage 
from an insured event, UIA agreed to replace the old septic tank for a new one. UIA also 
agreed to replace the soakaway, to ensure the new septic tank performed effectively.
UIA says Mr and Mrs H previously had a rubble soakaway covered in a polythene sheet, and 
it replaced that with a crate system covered in a permeable membrane. UIA says its system 
was a like-for-like replacement, using the modern equivalent. 
UIA undertook the works in July 2018. In August 2018, Mr and Mrs H reported their garden 
was sinking in the area of UIAs works. UIA concluded the issue had been caused by 
settlement, which could be resolved with additional backfill.
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs H reported the issue hadnt been resolved, with sewage rising 
where the garden had sunk. 
UIA investigated, but it said there were no faults with the drainage system or its works. UIA 
concluded the issue was due to extreme levels of rainfall, resulting in a rise in the water 
table. UIA said the system would work correctly during normal weather conditions.
Mr and Mrs H contacted our service in April 2020. Their complaint was considered by one of 
our investigators, but he wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. That case wasnt taken any 
further and it was closed.
Mr and Mrs H went on to appoint a drainage specialist to carry out works. Mr and Mrs H say 
those works resolved the issues. The specialist also produced a report. UIA considered the 
report, but it maintained its works werent defective.
Mr and Mrs H brought the complaint back to our service, which was considered by the same 
investigator. He thought the complaint should now be upheld. Because UIA disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr and Mrs Hs drainage specialist has explained the following:
- Dirty water had been pumped out over the lawn and caused damage. The soakaway 
was excavated and replaced with a drainage field in compliance with building 
standards.
- Soakaways arent recommended, and a drainage field is the preferred method of 
building control and other authorities. Theres been no flooding issues since the 
drainage field was installed.
- The storm crates installed by UIA shouldnt be used for a septic tank soakaway. They 
should only be used for a rainwater soakaway, where there isnt constant water, and 
rainwater only needs to be held for a while. 
- The crates were wrapped in a waterproof membrane, which doesnt allow dirty water 
to drain correctly. Also, there was only about 20mm of gravel underneath the crates, 
and 150mm is required to allow filtration. The gravel size was also 10mm, but for 
stabilisation, the authorities recommend 20-50mm.
- The soakaway that was installed didnt fail due to ground conditions. It failed because 
there wasnt enough stone laid around the soakaway crates, and because their sides 
and tops were wrapped with a waterproof membrane. Whilst the bottom was laid in a 
woven membrane, due to the lack of stones, there wasnt enough filtration for the 
water to discharge. The crates where acting like a holding tank and the ground 
couldnt soak up the water in the small area it had. The dirty water was being 
pumped to a manhole, which couldnt cope. As a result, the dirty water was 
overflowing into the garden and the manhole had sunk.
UIA has made the following points:
- Whilst Mr and Mrs H say they only had an issue with a blocked toilet, and its UIAs 
repairs that caused their garden to flood with dirty water, UIA has call recordings 
which prove otherwise. UIA says its clear from the calls that Mr and Mrs H had 
ongoing issues with the previous soakaway, rather than its works causing the 
problem.
- UIA provided a transcript of the claim notification call. During the call Mrs H explained 
that within a week of the septic tank being emptied, the toilet was blocked, and dirty 
water could be seen in the garden. Mrs H said the issue started at the end of 2017, 
and it gradually got worse when it rained. She also explained she had been told a 
new soakaway was required. 
- UIA also provided a transcript from a call between its drainage specialist and Mrs H. 
During the call, Mrs H advised the garden had flooded before, during heavy rainfall, 
when they first moved in. Mrs H said, at the time, they didnt think anything of it as 
the water drained away, but as time has gone on, the problem has got worse and 
worse. 
- Foul water should be discharged into a drainage field and not a soakaway, but due to 
the confines of the garden, Building Control was consulted, and crates were deemed 
the best option available. Building Control inspected the works and a certificate was 
issued. Building Control confirmed the non-standard solution meets its regulations 
given the space available. The system UIA installed was better than the one 
originally installed.- The crates, membrane and stones were all in plain sight and integral to the design 
that was signed-off. Mr and Mrs Hs drainage specialist hasnt highlighted anything 
that Building Control was unaware of, nor has it highlighted any defect with the 
installation. 
- Mr and Mrs Hs drainage specialist has installed a drainage field. However, it doesnt 
meet regulations, as the drainage field is too small. Installing a drainage field thats 
too small wasnt an option for UIA. Building Control approved a pit style soakaway 
solution, it didnt approve an undersized drainage field.
- Whilst the drainage field apparently works at the moment due to the lowering of the 
water table, the dispersal area of the waste isnt large enough to guarantee a long-
term solution. It doesnt appear Building Control signed-off the work.
- The small garden becomes waterlogged during heavy rain. The garden simply isnt 
large enough to drain away the amount of water waste needed when heavy rainfall 
occurs, and because theres a soakaway instead of mains or a shared drainage 
solution, the garden will always be susceptible to this issue.
- The data from a nearby weather station shows the rainfall during the year following 
UIAs work, was at its highest level for 30 years. Whilst Mrs H has highlighted UIAs 
system was failing during the summer months, the wettest month was June 2019, 
which would have caused the water table to rise.
- The month in which Mr and Mrs Hs drainage specialist carried out works was very 
dry, with the rainfall 78% below the average. That level of drought is rarer than a 
1-in-9-year event, and it followed a month with below average rainfall levels. The 
water table would have started to lower. Had Mr and Mrs H kept the soakaway 
system in place, this wouldnt have failed in the same conditions either.
- Mr and Mrs H say, after UIA installed a new soakaway, their garden flooded when no 
water was put into their system. However, that shows water came from neighbouring 
properties, also not connected to mains drains. The neighbouring properties arent 
connected to Mr and Mrs Hs system, so water from neighbouring properties can 
only be due to a high water table.
- After UIA installed a new soakaway the toilet was no longer blocking, and this is clear 
evidence that the new soakaway was working. However, due to the garden size and 
the fact the property isnt attached to mains or shared drainage, the garden will still 
flood if the water table rises. It may have seemed worse after UIA had installed the 
new soakaway, but this was because, previously, waste was stuck backing up into 
the toilet. The previous soakaway was no longer doing its job effectively, as it had 
reached the end of its life. 
- When the water table rises to previous levels, the drainage field will flood, and waste 
will once again rise to the surface. As soon as the water table reaches the height of 
the drainage pipes that form the drainage field, it will fail. Both a pit style soakaway 
system and a drainage field system are susceptible to a rising water table when 
theres no connection to a mains system.
Ive already issued a provisional decision, explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint. In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
UIA concluded the old soakaway had failed, which was causing the toilet to back up. Ive not 
seen anything that contradicts UIAs conclusion, so I accept what it says. Soakaways arent 
listed in the policy as being covered, and in any event, Ive not seen anything to support the 
old soakaway was damaged by an insured event. UIA accepted a claim for the septic tank, 
and it only replaced the old soakaway to ensure the new septic tanks performance wasnt 
hindered.
Mr and Mrs Hs drainage specialist points towards various issues with the new soakaway 
system. UIA accepts the preferred solution for foul drainage is a drainage field, not a 
soakaway, but it points towards the small garden and the input of Building Control.
There are two questions that need to be considered. The first is whether UIA should have 
replaced the old soakaway with a drainage field. If the answer to that first question is no, 
then the next question is whether the new soakaway was the main cause of the garden 
flooding.
Ive seen the Environmental Agency published guidance in 2015 for sewage discharge. The 
rules explain that if a soakaway was installed after December 2007, it must be upgraded to 
a drainage field or the property must be connected to the mains drainage. Alternatively, if 
neither of those options are possible, the property owner must apply for a permit from the 
Environmental Agency.
I dont know whether UIAs soakaway would be considered a post-2007 installation, or a pre-
2007 installation given it was replacing a soakaway that was installed in 1997. However, Ive 
seen Building Control signed-off the works. Furthermore, Ive seen that the relevant building 
regulations require consultation with the Environmental Agency and local authority when 
installing a drainage field. Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs Hs drainage expert about 
whether its work was signed-off, but he didnt receive a response. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded that I can reasonably decide UIA did something wrong by not installing a 
drainage field.
In respect of the second question, Mr and Mrs H initially obtained a quote from a builder. The 
builder noted soakaway crates werent appropriate for foul water and recommended a new 
soakaway constructed from flint. So, I accept theres further expert opinion, in addition to 
Mr and Mrs Hs drainage experts opinion, that supports UIAs soakaway system wasnt 
constructed appropriately. 
However, Mr and Mrs H didnt replace UIAs crate and membrane soakaway system with a 
differently constructed soakaway. So, Im not persuaded that they were simply putting right 
defective works. Instead, Mr and Mrs H installed a drainage field, which was an entirely 
different system, that wasnt previously in place. 
In my view, the installation of a drainage field supports Mr and Mrs H were trying to address 
a historic flooding issue that had always existed with their old soakaway, i.e. before it failed 
and caused their toilet to back up. If the old soakaway had performed well in the past, and 
the main issue was simply the use of crates and a membrane, then I consider it likely that 
a differently constructed soakaway would have been installed as a solution, rather than a 
drainage field (which I understand was a more expensive solution).Whilst I accept what Mr and Mrs H say about the garden flooding being much worse after 
UIAs works, I find UIAs arguments about the high level of rainfall, and the foul water no 
longer being backed up in the system, to be persuasive. 
Im also mindful that the soakaway wasnt replaced because it was damaged by an insured 
event. It needed to be replaced because it had failed due to age. So, but for the septic tank 
being replaced by UIA, Mr and Mrs H would have always had the cost of replacing the old 
soakaway. 
In summary, Ive not seen anything that persuades me UIA should have installed a drainage 
field rather than a new soakaway, and on balance, Im also not persuaded that the use of 
crates and a membrane was the main cause of the continued flooding. Even if I were to 
accept UIAs soakaway should have been constructed differently, in the circumstances, 
I wouldnt be persuaded it needs to pay out again.
UIA didnt respond to my provisional decision. The deadline to respond has now passed. 
Mr and Mrs H did respond. Ill address their further comments in my below findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H say whilst there had previously been a flooding issue in their garden, separate 
to, and before, the claim related issues; that problem had been resolved by the addition of 
drains and a porous driveway.
Mr and Mrs H accept their septic tank had failed, and was sinking, due to a problem with the 
soakaway. They say whilst this was causing flooding near the septic tank, after UIAs work 
the garden was sinking in a different area. They have clarified that, after UIAs work the 
issue wasnt flooding, but the sinking, which occurred two days later. 
Mr and Mrs H set out why it was evident UIAs work was defective, and they said UIA should 
have repaired the issues under warranty. They also noted that Building Control saw very 
little before UIAs work was signed-off.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Hs further comments and reconsidered the previous 
submissions of both parties, but overall, Im not persuaded I can reasonably uphold their 
complaint.
I understand the point Mr and Mrs H make about the warranty, but the fact remains there 
was an issue with their previous soakaway, which wasnt covered under their policy. So, 
on balance, I consider it likely that they would have always had the cost of replacing the 
soakaway had the septic tank not been damaged by the ground movement. To put it 
another way, Im not persuaded they have been placed in a worse position.
Mr and Mrs H also installed an entirely different system, upgrading what they previously had 
before the claim, rather than simply correcting defective work. So, on balance, Im also not 
persuaded the main issue was UIAs work.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but for the reasons Ive set out above, and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman