DRN-2478831
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a number of 
packaged bank accounts. He is also unhappy that a large number of letters were sent to 
an incorrect address which led him to having to open these letters in front of his 
employer.
What happened
Barclays refunded the account fees that Mr B paid for his packaged bank accounts along 
with interest at 8% simple, less tax, in 2014. Given this we did not investigate this aspect of 
Mr Bs complaint.
In relation to the letters sent to the wrong address, Barclays paid Mr B £25 to reflect the 
distress that this caused him. Barclays later increased this amount by offering a further £25. 
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and she thought that what Barclays had 
offered to do was sufficient. 
Mr B did not agree with this as he believes that he is due additional compensation. This 
complaint therefore was passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything that both parties have provided I believe that the £50 
that Barclays has offered is appropriate. Let me explain why.
Mr B has explained that he had to open the incorrectly addressed letters in front of his 
employer, as his employer was worried that he was in debt. Additionally, Mr B says that this 
may have caused him to lose his job. 
I should explain though that I have to award compensation based on what did happen, rather 
than based on what couldve happened. I accept that opening the letters to demonstrate 
their contents may have been embarrassing. But once a letter was opened the contents 
showed that Mr Bs employers fears were not correct and therefore the issue ended swiftly 
with no further detriment to Mr B. 
Also it does seem like Barclays made an error in sending a number of letters to an address 
that was incorrect. Once Mr B contacted Barclays this error was corrected. So overall, I think 
that the level of compensation that Barclays have offered Mr B already to put matters right is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) needs to pay Mr B the additional £25 
that it has already agreed to, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman