DRN-3272765
Complaint
Mr K has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly continued 
applying charges to his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought First Direct should have 
realised that Mr Ks overdraft had become unsustainable for him by January 2017 and so it 
shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. So it needed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ks account from this point. First Direct 
disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
provisional decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think First Direct acted unfairly when it 
continued adding interest and associated fees and charges to Mr Ks overdraft from        
January 2017. By this point, it was evident that Mr Ks overdraft had become unsustainable 
for him and that continuing to provide it was likely to cause significant adverse 
consequences. Mr Ks statements leading up to this period shows that he was using the 
overdraft to gamble heavily. In these circumstances it ought to have been apparent to First 
Direct that Mr Ks ability to repay this facility was dependant on his success as a gambler. 
And I cant see how it could reasonably have concluded that Mr K would be able to repay 
what he owed without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty.
So overall by January 2017, I think that First Direct ought to have realised that Mr K was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his overdraft and should have stopped providing it on 
the same terms. It should have instead treated Mr K with forbearance, even if this meant 
taking corrective action in relation to the facility. All of this means that First Direct should 
have realised that Mr K wasnt using his overdraft as intended and as the account conduct 
had suggested it had become unsustainable shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As First Direct didnt react to Mr Ks overdraft and instead continued charging in 
the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr K ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr K lost out because of what First 
Direct did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what First Direct must do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for First Direct to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ks current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made First Direct should contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr K is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with First Direct to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ks credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
if it had started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in    
January 2017. First Direct can also reduce Mr Ks overdraft limit by the amount of 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
him over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then First 
Direct should remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file. First Direct 
can also reduce Mr Ks overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires First Direct to take off tax from this interest. First Direct 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. HSBC Bank Plc (trading as 
First Direct) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman