DRN-1447848
 
complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B took out the policy with a loan in 1998 which was secured against his home. He paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr B and Halifax agree that the policy was sold during a meeting. During that meeting, 
Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps to make Mr B aware he had a choice about buying 
the policy. Mr B says he wasnt aware of the policy. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Mr B had with Halifax. But 
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr Bs loan agreement. On the agreement there is a section 
about the PPI. Here it asks if applicants want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance (which 
was Halifaxs name for PPI)  and there is an option to select yes or no. Yes has been 
selected on Mr Bs form, and hes signed it. If Mr B didnt want the policy, he couldve 
selected the no box. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying the policy. 
And he chose to take it. 
Mr B says Halifax didnt recommend the policy to him. Halifax says it did recommend the 
policy. I dont think it matters whether Halifax recommended the policy or not because I think 
it was right for Mr B  based on his circumstances. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible for the policy
There was nothing to stop Mr B claiming the full benefit of the policy if he needed too 
- such as any known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. 
Its unclear from what Mr B has told us whether he would have received any sick pay 
benefits from his employer. But in any event the PPI wouldve covered his loan 
repayments for up to 12 months if he was made redundant. And for up to 60 months if he was too unwell to work. This wouldve allowed him to use any employer benefits 
to cover other everyday living expenses. 
Mr B said he had savings but having the policy wouldve meant those savings could 
have been used to cover other essential costs. So I think the policy couldve been 
useful to him. 
He was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on his home, on his own. And the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious for him. I think having the security that his 
repayments couldve been made if he was unable to work wouldve been important to 
Mr B. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. So, I think Mr B wouldve 
understood how much he would need to pay for it. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr B couldnt afford the monthly payments. He couldve cancelled the 
PPI at any time, without further cost, if his situation changed or he no longer wanted 
it. 
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr B, Halifax shouldve also taken steps to give 
him clear information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted it. I dont know what 
steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as clearly as 
they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve changed Mr Bs decision. 
I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for 
him.  
Overall, I dont think Mr B has lost out from anything Halifax mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman