DRN-2883012
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B was approved for four instalment loans from Mr Lender between April 2019 and 
February 2020. A brief summary of Mr Bs borrowing history based on information provided 
by Mr Lender can be found below; 
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest repayment
1 £200.00 01/04/2019 23/08/2019 6 £79.73
2 £500.00 23/08/2019 17/09/2019 6 £239.33
3 £700.00 03/10/2019 28/01/2020 12 £161.04
4 £1,100.00 26/02/2020 22/06/2020 12 £246.91
In our most recent assessment one of our adjudicators reconsidered concluded she couldnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 1  3. However, she thought by loan 4, Mr Lender 
needed to have built up an accurate picture of Mr Bs finances  which wouldve included 
verifying the information he was providing. Had it carried out proportionate checks the 
adjudicator didnt think the loan wouldve been granted because Mr B had other outstanding 
short-term loans and was using betting websites.
It appears that Mr B agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Lender didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators outcome in relation to loans 1  3. And 
Mr Lender appears to be unhappy that the final loan has been upheld. Given, there doesnt 
appear to be any ongoing dispute about loans 1  3, I dont need to make a full finding about 
them in this decision. 
Expect to say, that I agree with the adjudicator that given it was early in the lending 
relationship and what Mr Lender knew about Mr Bs financial position the decision to lend 
seem reasonable. Ive also considered these loans in the overall lending relationship 
between Mr B and Mr Lender. 
Loan 4
When Mr B approached Mr Lender for this loan, Mr Lender asked Mr B to declare his 
monthly income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr B declared he was 
working full time, receiving a monthly income of £1,595 and that his monthly expenditure 
amounted to £998. This left Mr B £597 of disposable income in which to afford his largest 
repayment of £264.91.  
Mr Lender also did a credit check. This didnt show any adverse credit file information such 
as insolvencies for example an IVA and there were no County Court Judgements. In addition 
to this, Mr Lender says it was aware of one outstanding short-term loan that Mr B was 
paying £80 towards. There also appeared to be no change in Mr Bs credit score, from the first loan. So, I think the repayments appeared affordable based on the information Mr B 
declared to Mr Lender about his financial circumstances.
However, that doesnt mean a proportionate check was carried out. And like the adjudicator 
I do think Mr Lender, by this loan, needed to do more than just rely on the information Mr B 
was giving it and what it found out from its credit checks. 
Mr Lender, was aware, based on what Mr B had declared to it, that hed been repaying other 
short term lenders at the point each loan was granted, so almost a year into his lending 
relationship, Mr Lender was on notice that Mr B had been using these loans, and loans from 
other lenders for a significant period . Which couldve suggested that Mr B was having longer 
term difficulties. 
This loan was also Mr Bs largest loan to date (£1,100), to be repaid over the joint longest 
term with the highest monthly repayment. So almost a year into his lending relationship Mr B 
was committing to spend at least another year indebted.  This was on top of a pattern that 
had formed that each new loan was for an increased amount, so the amount Mr B was now 
borrowing was more than five times what he started with. 
Mr Lender was also aware that Mr Bs income had reduced compared to the first two loans 
and that the pattern of repayment of these loans ought to have been of some concern. All 
the previous loans had been repaid earlier than Mr Lender had anticipated. I accept that Mr 
Lender says this could be a sign that they were affordable as Mr B was able to repay them 
earlier but equally, this pattern, with the reasons that Ive highlighted above ought to have 
alerted it to the fact that Mr B was likely having financial difficulties. 
Taking into account, what Ive said above there are enough factors in my view to have 
prompted Mr Lender to carry to more in-depth checks in order to build an accurate picture of 
Mr Bs actual financial position. Mr Lender couldve done this a number of ways: it couldve 
asked to see copies of Mr Bs bank statements or it couldve verified his income and 
expenditure through payslips and/or bills.
Mr B has supplied this service with bank statements from around the time this loan was 
approved. Having looked at these, I agree with the adjudicator. The bank statements show a 
number of outstanding short-term loans with other lenders, with payments above the £80 
that Mr Lender says it was aware of.  
In addition to this in the days leading up to the loans being approved, Mr B was spending a 
significant amount of money each day on betting websites. And had Mr Lender discovered 
this, which is what I think it wouldve done by carrying out proportionate checks, it wouldnt 
have approved this loan.
So, for these reasons, I think Mr Lender were wrong to approve Mr Bs final loan as a 
proportionate check wouldve likely shown it that Mr B couldnt afford to take on any further 
lending.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr Bs final loan, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr B may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender should do the following to put things right;
Mr Lender should refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr B paid for loan 4.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B from the
date Mr B originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Mr Lender should remove any adverse payment information recorded about this loan 
from Mr Bs credit file. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Bs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman