DRN-2289453
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020 that I summarise below.
Miss R was given three loans by Loans2Go between November 2018 and November 2019.
Loan 1 in November 2018 was for £300 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of 
around £67. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term, including interest, was 
just over £1,223.
Loan 2 in June 2019 was for £250 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of around 
£57. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term, including interest, was just 
over £1,028. 
Loan 3 in November 2019 was for £500 repayable in 18 monthly instalments of
around £114. The total amount payable, if the loan ran to term, including interest, 
was just over £2,057. I understand loan 3 is still outstanding.
When Miss R complained to Loans2Go it didnt agree to uphold her complaint but it made a
goodwill offer. Miss R didnt accept and brought her complaint to this Service. Loans2Go 
later agreed to uphold Miss Rs complaint about the third loan. Miss R didnt accept this 
outcome so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision about the matter.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the steps that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Loans2Go was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay her 
loans - not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.
I set out the overarching questions I considered in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss R would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Loans2Go carry out reasonable and proportionate checks each time? If not, what would
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Loan 1
Loans2Go says it carried out some checks before it gave the first loan to Miss R which
included asking for details of her income and expenditure and carrying out some credit
checks. Loans2Go assessed Miss Rs disposable income and it says loan 1 was affordable
for her. It doesnt think that additional checks were required at the time.
But the information gathered by Loans2Go showed that Miss R had previously had problems
repaying credit, including arrears on her mortgage, a County Court Judgment and other late
payments to creditors. I accepted that the monthly instalments were not high in comparison 
to Miss Rs monthly income, but this was an expensive loan, repayable over an extended
period. Given this and Miss Rs credit history I would have expected Loans2Go to want to
take further steps to gain a thorough understanding of Miss Rs true financial position.
Having taken into account everything Ive seen, I was not persuaded that the checks that
Loans2Go carried out before agreeing to the first loan were reasonable and proportionate.
But even if those checks werent proportionate, it doesnt automatically follow that Loans2Go
was wrong to provide Miss R with the first loan.
Miss R provided us with bank statements from around the time she applied for this loan. I 
didnt think, even if Loans2Go had carried out more thorough checks at the time, it would 
reasonably have come to the conclusion that Miss Rs application for loan 1 should be 
declined. In the 3 months leading up to her application Miss Rs bank account largely 
remained in credit; there were no significant signs of financial distress such as frequent 
returned requests for payment or high bank charges for an unarranged or arranged 
overdraft. Nor were there any indications of regular gambling or frequent borrowing from 
other short-term lenders. Miss R was spending more than she had estimated with Loans2Go 
but in the circumstances, I couldnt fairly say that Loans2Go made an unfair lending decision 
when it agreed to provide her with the first loan. 
But I didnt think Loans2Go should have provided the second loan to Miss R.
Loan 2
Loans2Go says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Miss R and
acquired another credit report. It says that Miss Rs credit report showed that she was
managing her finances. Loans2Go concluded that loan 2 was affordable for her and it
doesnt think that additional checks were required.
I accepted that the amount being lent and the monthly payments had reduced, but Miss R 
was borrowing again within seven months of the 18-month first loan term. I thought this 
ought to have suggested to Loans2Go that Miss Rs financial position had not improved; that 
she might not have got out from under her financial problems, which were causing her to 
take expensive lending again. In these circumstances, and given her previous problems 
repaying credit, I would reasonably expect the lender to have realised that in order for its 
affordability checks to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more 
thorough.
It seemed to me that Loans2Go also relied heavily on information that Miss R was providing
about her financial circumstances. In my view requesting information from a borrower
doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focussed
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. The rules and regulationssay that where a lender takes income or expenditure into account, it is not generally
sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
Loans2Go did carry out credit checks and it thinks it should fairly rely on the information that
Miss R had provided. But I thought the lender ought reasonably to have sought a more 
detailed understanding of Miss Rs financial position in order to assess whether shed be 
able to sustainably repay her loan over the extended loan term. So as well as asking Miss R 
about her income and expenditure, I thought Loans2Go should have sought to 
independently verify more of the information she provided  for example by asking to see her 
bank statements.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown for loan 2?
I thought if Loans2Go had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, its
likely it would have discovered more about Miss Rs financial position and her emerging
financial difficulties. The bank statements that Miss R provided to us show that around the
time she applied for her second loan her financial circumstances had become more strained.
She was persistently overdrawn, paying daily overdraft fees and other bank charges and
payment requests were being returned. Miss R was also borrowing from other short-term
lenders.
I thought Loans2Go had focussed on whether the loan was affordable for Miss R on a 
pounds and pence basis, based on its analysis of her income and expenditure. But as Id 
explained, the lender was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably make her 
loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I thought Loans2Go should reasonably have realised that Miss R was over committed
financially and there were indications that she was having difficulty managing her finances.
From what Id seen, it seems likely that she was borrowing from short term lenders to
manage her ongoing financial commitments. And it seemed likely she would need to borrow
elsewhere to repay her second loan from Loans2Go. I thought Loans2Go ought reasonably 
to have realised that it was unlikely that Miss R wouldve been able to sustainably repay her
second loan. So it should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to provide
the second loan to her.
Loan 3
Loans2Go had already agreed to uphold Miss Rs complaint about this loan so I didnt need 
to consider it further except to set out what should happen next. I noted however, having 
reviewed Miss Rs bank statements leading up to her third loan, that her financial difficulties 
appear to have continued.
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss R also complained that her loans were too expensive and that Loans2Go chargedexcessive interest. But I thought its likely that Miss R was aware that she was taking high
interest loans. And the interest that Loans2Go was charging for its lending doesnt appear to
be out of step with industry practice at that time. So I was not persuaded that Loans2Go
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss R in this regard.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Miss R has told us that 
she accepts my provisional decision. I have not seen any further comments or information 
from Loans2Go in response to my provisional decision. The deadline for further comments 
has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Miss R for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision:
In summary:
I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint about loan 1.
I dont think Loans2Go should have provided her with loan 2.
Loans2Go has already agreed to uphold the complaint about loan 3.
So Loans2Go should put things right for Miss R in respect of her second and third loans.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Miss R shouldnt repay more than the capital amounts
she borrowed for her second and third loans.
To put things right for Miss R, Loans2Go should:
Consider all payments made by Miss R towards these loans as payments towards 
the combined capital amount;
If Miss R has made payments above this combined capital amount then these should 
be refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then 
Loans2Go needs to treat Miss R sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this;
Remove any negative information from Miss Rs credit file in relation to loans 2 and 
3, once settled.
I understand Miss Rs third loan is outstanding. If Loans2Go has sold the outstanding debt it
should work with any third party to bring about the above steps.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans2Go
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman