DRN-2224841
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the repairs that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited made 
to her car under her motor insurance policy. Mrs L is represented in this matter by her 
partner, Mr P. They want the car repaired at no additional cost to themselves. 
What happened
Mrs L was involved in an accident and made a claim on her policy. AA took her car for 
repairs. But Mrs L was unhappy with how these were done and that not all the damage was 
repaired. AA said that damage to a wheel and the rear of her car was there before the 
accident. Mr P provided images to show a wheel before the accident. These didnt show any 
damage. He also provided images of the accident location showing the kerb that he said 
damaged her wheel. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA had 
reasonably relied on two expert engineers views that the repairs carried out were 
satisfactory and that the damage to the wheel and the rear of the car were unrelated to the 
accident. He didnt think the images Mr P had provided showed that the wheel was 
undamaged before the accident. He thought the kerb was too low to have caused the 
claimed-for damage. 
Mrs L replied that she wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint, so its come to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that its now over a year since the accident, but Mrs L remains unhappy with how 
her claim was dealt with. I can understand that this must be frustrating. And I can also 
understand that she wants her car fully repaired. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that Mrs L said that in the accident she clipped a kerb causing alloy wheel and 
suspension damage. She also said that AAs repairer who assessed the damage said the 
alloy wheel should be repaired. 
The car was then taken for repairs. But AAs engineer wouldnt authorise the repair to the 
wheel as he couldnt say it wasnt damaged previously. Ive seen that he thought the 
kerbstone at the accident site was too low to have caused the claimed for damage. 
When Mr P complained, AA sent an independent assessor to inspect the car. I think that was 
fair and reasonable as its what Id require if there was a dispute about the quality or 
completeness of repairs.
But Mr P said the assessors verbal report differed to his written report that the wheel 
couldnt have been damaged at the time as there was no kerbstone at the accident location. 
AA declined to appoint a further independent assessor. It said Mrs L would need to pay for 
this.
Mr P has provided evidence that there was a kerbstone at the site. But I can see that AAs 
own engineer had already considered the height of this and the damage to the alloy wheel. 
So I dont think this error was sufficient reason for AA to appoint a further engineer to inspect 
the car. I think it had already considered this damage and established that it was unrelated 
to the accident. I can see that Mr P hasnt disputed that his claim for damage to the rear of 
the car was also declined.
So Ive seen that AA reviewed the claim and the damage to Mrs Ls car several times. It 
relied on its own expert engineer and an independent engineers views that the accident 
couldnt have caused damage to the wheel. I understand that Mr P is a qualified engineer 
and he has different views. But I can see that AA has considered these in deciding what it 
would authorise for repair. 
I think AA reasonably gave Mrs L the opportunity to provide her own independent engineers 
report to support her claim. But she hasnt done this. So I think AA has considered all the 
available evidence and justified its decision not to pay for further repairs to Mrs Ls car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman