DRN-3317500
The complaint
Mr T complained about advice he received from Holistic Pension Transfer Specialists 
Limited to transfer his defined benefit occupational pension (which Ill refer to as the work 
pension) to a self-invested person pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr T was a member of his employers work pension scheme. He was in contact with a 
business Ill refer to as L as he wanted to look at the transferring the pension. A fact find 
document (which recorded Mr Ts financial position and objectives) was completed by L. 
This recorded things such as:
Mr T rented his home
hed had a bad accident and could no longer work
he had plans to buy his home and needed £40,000 as soon as possible in order to do so
he wanted to transfer his work pension to something that was more flexible and take the 
tax-free cash that would be available to buy the property, and that would enable him to 
leave his pension to his children
his attitude to risk was balanced.
Mr T was referred to Holistic as L couldnt advise on the pension transfer. Holistics advisor 
phoned Mr T to check the information it had been provided with. Its file note from the time 
recorded that:
the advisor told Mr T of his various concerns but Mr T said he was adamant that he 
wanted to transfer and he explained why eg to buy the home he lived in
Mr T also said he wanted to help his son by giving him £10,000
the advisor said the SIPP would enable Mr T to leave the pension to his son but he 
should consider his own future too.
On 16 June 2018 Holistic sent Mr T a letter outlining its recommendation. Of note, the letter 
said:
Mr T considered his work pension surplus and he didnt expect to rely on it until he was 
67 (which was 12 years away)
his plan was to transfer the pension so that he could take control and take the tax-free 
cash plus another £20,000 in order to buy his home and give £10,000 to his son
his key objectives were:
oaccessing the tax-free lump sum cash as soon as possible
ohaving the flexibility of accessing drawdown to meet changing demands 
associated with age and lifestyle and to fill any income gaps until hes able to 
receive the State pension
ohaving flexibility over the nomination of beneficiaries, timings and benefit 
methods
othe ability to pass 100% of the pension fund to his son
the critical yield (which is the amount the SIPP needed to grow by in order to match the 
benefits of the work pension) was 9.4%
the work pension failed to meet Mr Ts objectives
outlined the benefits of not transferring and the benefits of transferring.
Towards the end, the letter said that in terms of security of a pension income for life the work 
pension was valuable and it was difficult to replicate that from the proposed SIPP. However, 
Holistic ultimately recommended that Mr T transfer his work pension to the SIPP. It said this 
was suitable to meet his objectives.
That was the end of Holistics involvement in the transaction. The transfer was then 
completed in August 2018.
In February 2020 Mr T complained to Holistic as he felt the advice to transfer his work 
pension was unsuitable. Holistic looked into the complaint but didnt think it had acted 
unfairly. In summary, it said its advice was accurate and appropriate; and that it didnt do any 
work for Mr T beyond giving the advice.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part 
of my final decision.
Issues to decide
I needed to decide whether the advice Holistic gave Mr T was unsuitable; and if it was 
unsuitable I then needed to decide what Holistic needed to do in order to put things right.
Relevant rules, guidelines etc
There were various rules and principles Holistic had to abide by/follow at the time it gave 
the advice. Three I thought were particularly important were:
othe advice had to be suitable
oHolistic had to work on the basis that advice to transfer the work pension was 
unsuitable; and it only became suitable if it could be clearly shown to be in Mr Ts 
best interests, and
oHolistic had to treat Mr T fairly and act in his best interests.
General observations
My impression of Holistics argument was essentially that it thought the advice was 
suitable because it met Mr Ts objectives. I didnt think that argument in itself was 
persuasive. That was because what a consumer wanted (ie their objectives) might be 
completely unrealistic or unachievable without taking risks over and above what they 
could afford or might wish to take. So what they wanted wasnt always what was 
suitable/in their best interests. And in that situation the advice should be to not transfer. If 
the consumer then chose to dismiss the advice and transfer anyway that was their 
choice.
I noted comments Holistic had made in response to our investigators opinion about 
Mr Ts actions after the advice was given eg a large amount of withdrawals, the 
performance of the recommended funds. In considering whether the advice was suitable I had to consider the situation at the time the advice was given. And at that point in time 
Holistic didnt know how the underlying funds would perform in the future and it didnt 
know how Mr T would actually access his funds. So I didnt think what happened after 
the advice was given was particularly important in me deciding whether the advice was 
suitable. It was more important in deciding whether Holistic needed to do anything in 
order to put things right.
Was the advice unsuitable?
A key predictor for me of whether a transfer from a defined benefit pension scheme was 
suitable and/or in Mr Ts best interest was the critical yield, his attitude to risk and his 
capacity for loss (including how much of the total pension provision the transfer 
represents).
In respect to the critical yield, Holistics recommendation letter said the SIPP would need 
to grow by 9.4% each year in order to match the benefits of the work pension Mr T was 
giving up. For a transfer to be financially viable, the assets a consumers attitude to risk 
allowed them to invest in shouldnt just have been capable of achieving the critical yield 
but exceeding it. Thats because theres usually no point giving up the guarantees 
provided by a defined benefit pension scheme simply to stand still, given the risk that 
the transfer might underperform.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Although 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, I thought they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to this time which I could refer to was published by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 3.9% per 
year for 11 years to retirement. Even allowing for Mr Ts balanced attitude to risk that 
was some way short of the 9.4% required each year.
In respect of Mr Ts capacity for loss, apart from the State pension this was Mr Ts only 
pension provision for retirement income. And there was a low likelihood of him gaining 
any further pensions in the future. I therefore thought Mr T was highly reliant on the work 
pension for his future retirement income, and I didnt think he could have afforded to take 
much risk with it eg fluctuations with the investment returns, the funds running out early 
due to withdrawals.
Based on the information available at the time I thought the critical yield was unlikely to 
have been achievable based on Mr Ts attitude to risk. I also thought Mr Ts capacity for 
losing the benefits provided by his work pension was low. I was aware of Mr Ts stated 
objectives; however given the guaranteed benefits provided by the work pension and the 
risks involved in transferring, I wasnt persuaded that those risks were justified. I 
therefore concluded that Holistics advice was unsuitable and not in Mr Ts best interests.
Did Holistic need to do anything to put things right?
Mr T was a relatively unsophisticated consumer when it came to investments and 
pensions. I thought that was relevant as, in my opinion, it meant it was likely he would be 
wholly reliant on the advice being given to him by a professional advisor. That in turn meant he would more likely than not follow the advice given. Accordingly, if hed been 
advised to not transfer, I thought it was most likely that Mr T would have heeded that 
advice and he wouldnt have transferred his work pension.
I considered the fact Mr T withdrew virtually all of the transferred funds from the SIPP in 
the months following the transfer as this could have indicated his plan all along was to 
transfer the work pension in order to access the funds. That would have supported an 
argument that Mr T would have transferred his work pension irrespective of the advice 
he received from Holistic. Mr T told us the reason he made the withdrawals was because 
he suffered from depression and, essentially, he withdrew the funds from the SIPP 
because he could ie the money was there and it was accessible. He said, and I believed 
him, that he had no preconceived plan to transfer the pension and withdraw all of the 
funds.
I therefore concluded that Mr T wouldnt have transferred his work pension if hed been 
advised by Holistic not to.
Summary
Because I felt the advice was unsuitable and it led to Mr T transferring his work pension 
when he otherwise wouldnt have, I concluded that Holistic should compensate Mr T for any 
losses hed suffered as a result of him transferring his work pension.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T said he had nothing further to add, apart from asking for confirmation that as his SIPP 
is now closed (due to it only having a very small balance) would the compensation be paid to 
him taking his tax rate into account. Our investigator confirmed that in these circumstances 
that would be the case.
Holistic made various points. Ive considered these and have addressed the ones I feel are 
material to the outcome of the complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General observations
I made two general points in my provisional decision  about advice not being suitable just 
because it enables a consumer to meet their objectives, and about Mr Ts actions after the 
transfer not being important in me deciding whether the advice was suitable.
Holistic said Mr Ts objectives were realistic and achievable and the transfer was suitable if 
he followed the advice. It also confirmed the advice wasnt for Mr T to transfer and then 
spend all the money in the next nine months. And it said Mr Ts previous arrangement 
wouldnt have met his objectives, but they could have been met if he transferred to the SIPP.
The point I made in my provisional decision was a general one along the lines of advice not 
automatically being suitable just because it enables a consumer to meet their objectives. A 
consumer may well be able to meet their objectives by following whatever advice an advisor 
gives them; but if doing that is detrimental to the consumer in other ways it might mean the 
advice is unsuitable overall.In response to my provisional decision Holistic said it felt what happened after the transfer 
was relevant to the advice it gave, and that I inferred that the advisor should have known 
that Mr T would withdraw the funds from his pension and spend it. I firstly confirm my view 
that the advisor could only work on the information he was provided with by Mr T at the time 
eg about his financial position, health, objectives. I dont think the advisor ought to have 
known  nor could he have known  that Mr T would withdraw all his funds in the nine 
months following the transfer.
I nevertheless remain of the view that whats important in me deciding whether or not the 
advice to transfer was suitable is the information the advisor knew at the time  itss not what 
he didnt know or what happened afterwards. I accept Mr Ts actions in withdrawing the 
funds could indicate that this was his plan all along. But I addressed this in my provisional 
decision, and I comment on it further below.
Was the advice unsuitable?
In summary, I provisionally concluded that the advice was unsuitable because the critical 
yield was most likely unachievable and Mr T didnt have the capacity to lose the guaranteed 
pension benefits provided by his work pension. And I didnt think the fact Mr T might have 
been able to achieve his objectives outweighed the risks of transferring.
Holistic has said that the critical yield of 9.4% was incorrect and it should have been 5.93%. 
Ive noted this, but it doesnt change the fact that the advisor was at the time working on the 
higher figure. And the revised critical yield is still unlikely to have been achieved as its 
significantly higher than the discount rate Ive quoted.
Holistic said the advice was effectively for Mr T to invest 37% of his funds into buying his 
home and to invest the remaining 63% into a balanced investment portfolio. And it said if 
Mr T had acted in line with the advice it would have been sound, would have met his 
objectives and would have reflected his best interests. It also said his capacity for loss was 
improved as he would own his property outright.
Holistic didnt advise Mr T to buy his home  its advice was to transfer the work pension 
(based, in part, on Mr T saying he wanted money to buy his home). Theres a difference. Im 
not persuaded that Mr Ts capacity to lose his work pension benefits was enhanced by the 
fact he would have owned his home outright. Although this might have reduced his regular 
expenses (eg not having to pay rent), it didnt reduce the risk that Mr Ts pension benefits for 
later in life  which is the main purpose of a pension  would be reduced due to things such 
as lack of growth, ongoing fees and withdrawals from the fund. And it didnt reduce Mr Ts 
capacity for being able to withstand the loss of his guaranteed pension benefits.
Holistic also said Mr T felt that his best interests were served by being able to access the 
funds in his pension. This may have been the case. However, Holistics role here wasnt to 
just accede to what Mr T felt was in his best interest; it was to step back from that and advise 
him dispassionately about the situation he realistically faced and the implications for his 
future retirement income. Going back to the general point I made earlier, Im sure if you ask 
most consumers they would think its in their best interests to access the funds in their 
pension as and when they wanted  but that scenario simply isnt always possible or in their 
best interests.
With the above in mind, Holistics comments in response to my provisional decision dont 
persuade me to change my mind that the advice to transfer was unsuitable and not in Mr Ts 
best interests.
Does Holistic need to do anything to put things right?I provisionally concluded that Mr T wouldnt have transferred his work pension if hed 
received suitable advice from Holistic ie to not transfer.
In response to my provisional decision Holistic referred to the Ombudsmans subsequent 
personal conversations with [Mr T]. I want to make it clear that we (as the Financial 
Ombudsman Service) have spoken to Mr T in respect of his complaint but I (as the decision 
maker on the complaint) havent spoken to him personally. I have obviously taken what Mr T 
has told us into account when reviewing the complaint though.
Holistic said Mr T didnt act in line with his stated goals and, therefore, that he misled it and 
the advice was procured on a false basis. It said it trusted the information Mr T had given it 
and it cant be held accountable for Mr T not telling the truth. It also questioned the fact I had 
believed what Mr T had told us when he hadnt been truthful with Holistic.
Holistic has focussed on the fact that Mr T didnt act in accordance with what was recorded 
as to his intentions  which I accept: its not documented, for example, that he intended to 
withdraw all his pension funds. However, I dont think this changes my opinion that (a) the 
advice to transfer the work pension was unsuitable/not in Mr Ts best interests, or (b) that 
Mr T most likely wouldnt have transferred if hed received suitable advice. Im not holding 
Holistic accountable for Mr T not telling the truth. Even if Mr T had bought his home and had 
left his pension funds alone, my conclusion that the advice was unsuitable would probably 
still the same  because the critical yield was still unachievable and Mr Ts capacity for being 
able to lose his pension was still low. The only difference would be in what compensation 
Holistic would ultimately have to pay  but the withdrawals are accounted for in the redress 
methodology.
Holistic challenged the reason Mr T gave us for why he withdrew the funds and it wants the 
issue of his depression explored eg medical evidence to be presented and an assessment 
undertaken regarding Mr Ts behaviour. It thinks Mr T might have been fraudulently 
influenced by an unregulated third party or he always intended to access his pension funds 
and his plan was gain transfer advice which would then enable him to withdraw his funds 
and spend the money or invest in alternative unregulated products.
Holistic had the opportunity to thoroughly investigate Mr Ts complaint prior to it being 
referred to us. And if its investigations highlighted the need to get medical evidence  as it 
believes ours has  it had the opportunity to get that prior to formally responding to the 
complaint. I dont think its necessary to get medical evidence as Im satisfied that I can 
reach a fair and reasonable conclusion based on whats been provided thus far.
Holistic does make a valid point in respect of Mr Ts credibility in respect of what hes told us 
given what he told Holistic. And its of course possible that Mr T did have an ulterior motive 
for wanting to transfer his work pension  something I cant dismiss that out of hand. 
However, my remit is to decide complaints on the balance of probability  in other words, 
based on whats most likely to have happened. Direct testimony from a consumer is always 
evidence I will consider. But, unlike a court, I dont have the power to cross-examine 
consumers or to compel them to tell us the truth. So its always a question of how much 
weight I place on a consumers testimony.
In this case I dont necessarily find all of what Mr T has told us compelling. For example, 
upon further questioning hes told us that because of his mental health he cant remember 
what he spent the money he withdrew from his pension on  which, given the amounts 
involved, I find hard to believe. However, despite this, I havent seen anything which 
persuades me that there was any ulterior motive behind Mr T transferring his pension and I havent seen anything to suggest that he was the victim of any fraudulent or unscrupulous 
behaviour by a third party.
It therefore remains my view that Mr T most likely wouldnt have transferred his work pension 
if hed received suitable advice from Holistic.
Sundry points
Holistic has raised some other issues which I will cover off for completeness. The first one 
related to the fact that due to Mr Ts health he might have been entitled to receive an 
enhanced annuity. I dont think this affects the outcome of the complaint because this point 
is made based on what the position is, or might be, now, rather than what the position was 
and what was known at the time of the advice.
It also referred to the fact that Mr T received warnings about aggressively withdrawing his 
pension funds. Again, I dont think this affects the outcome of the case because the warnings 
dont in my opinion change the fact that the advice was unsuitable or that Mr T wouldnt 
otherwise have transferred his pension. And the fact Mr T did withdraw the funds is 
accounted for in the redress methodology.
Putting things right
Holistic isnt responsible for Mr Ts actions or for any advice he might have received from 
others after the transfer took place. Thats because, its involvement in this matter ended at 
the point it issued its recommendation. However, the unsuitable advice put Mr T on the path 
to transferring, which in turn led to him suffering potential losses due to the transfer.
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Holistic to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the position 
he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have remained in the 
work pension. Holistic must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. This guidance takes account of any withdrawals made, so that Mr T isnt 
doubly compensated for money hes already withdrawn from the SIPP.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Holistic may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible (and it seems from Mr Ts response to my 
provisional decision that this might be the case) or has protection or allowance implications, 
it should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
Holistic receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Holistic to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Holistic Pension Transfer Specialists Limited to settle this 
matter as outlined under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman