DRN-1999799
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank account, 
called a Platinum account.
Lloyds charged Mr A monthly fees for the Platinum account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Mr A thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid for the 
account.
What happened 
Mr A has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that he opened a fee-
free account in February 2006; and that Lloyds sold him the Platinum account in December 
2012, which he kept until at least April 2018.
Lloyds does not have precise details of what happened after April 2018 as Mr As account 
was transferred to another bank as part of a large corporate change, but I understand that at 
some stage Mr A switched to another account, probably a fee-free one.
As Mr As complaint is about what took place in 2012, I am not particularly concerned about 
this lack of information from 2018 onwards; and I think that Lloyds records about the earlier 
part of Mr As account history are probably reliable, so I have taken them to be accurate. 
Two of our adjudicators have already looked into Mr As complaint. They both considered 
that Lloyds sold the Platinum account to him fairly and didnt recommend that it should give 
him any money back. Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr As complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr A and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Mr A and Lloyds have both told us that Lloyds sold him the Platinum account during a 
meeting at one of its branches and that Lloyds advised him to buy it. As Lloyds gave Mr A 
advice, to do things fairly, it would have had check that the Platinum account was a 
reasonable fit for his financial situation and needs, tell him its cost and benefits and give him 
a fair choice. Lloyds believes that it met these requirements, whereas Mr A has complained 
that it didnt do things fairly. 
Mr A has told us that Lloyds didnt tell him there was a free option and that it pushed him to 
buy the Platinum account. Hes said that he didnt want or need any of the benefits the 
account provided. Hes also told us that he didnt use Lloyds online banking service or 
receive any other correspondence about the charges and so for several years he didnt know 
that Lloyds was still charging him for the Platinum account. 
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mr A during the meeting, so 
where I cant be certain about what happened, I have used the evidence that I do have to 
determine what is most likely to have occurred. 
When the meeting took place, Mr A had held a fee-free account for around six years. I 
havent seen anything to make me think Lloyds told Mr A that it was withdrawing this account 
from him, so Im satisfied that he knew about the fee-free option and I doubt that Lloyds 
denied him a choice to keep this account. I accept that it may well have spoken 
enthusiastically about the Platinum account to him, but this isnt the same as pushing it on 
him. 
In 2012, the main potential benefits of the Platinum account included travel insurance, use of 
a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Lloyds has sent us a copy of a 
form which it seems to have completed either during or just after the meeting. This form 
records that at the time Mr A had a potential need for these three benefits. So, it seems likely 
that Lloyds discussed them with him and checked his needs. I also think its probable that 
Lloyds told him about the monthly fees at the same time, as it doesnt seem credible that it 
could have provided them free of charge. 
Lloyds also charged customers with Platinum accounts lower interest rates for overdrafts 
than it usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. In 2012, Mr A seems to have 
wanted quite a large overdraft; so, alongside the other benefits, these lower interest rates 
may well have been useful for him. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise him to 
switch accounts. 
Mr A has also said that Lloyds led him to believe that he  needed  this account  to keep  or 
get an overdraft , which  would  not have  been  true, as Lloyds  did provide  overdrafts  to 
customers  with free-free  accounts.  I accept  that Mr A is doing  his best to remember  
what  happed  in 2012,  but I think  its unlikely  that Lloyds  misled  him in this way.  It may 
well have  told him that he would  have  to switch  to the Platinum  account  (or possibly  
another  packaged  bank  account)  to get the lower  interest  rates;  but as this was 
accurate,  it would  have  been  a fair thing  for Lloyds  to say. 
Mr A has pointed out that after Lloyds sold him the Platinum account he didnt travel for 
several years and didnt need to claim on the mobile phone insurance or use the car 
breakdown service. I accept this, but as he had a potential need for these benefits when 
Lloyds sold him the account, it doesnt follow that Lloyds sold it unfairly. It seems to me that 
Mr A could have used the insurance policies and the car breakdown service if the need had 
arisen. I accept that the travel insurance policy, in particular, had some exclusions and 
limitations, but these dont seem to have affected Mr A adversely.
I accept that Mr A may not have seen details of Lloyds fees online. But as I think that Lloyds 
told him about the charges from the outset, Im satisfied that it met its obligations to him. I 
also understand that the fees would have appeared on Mr As bank statements, and I dont 
think that Lloyds tried to hide them from him. 
So, in summary, it seems to me that it was reasonable for Lloyds to advise Mr A to buy the 
Platinum account. And Im satisfied that it told him about the fees and the benefits and gave 
him a choice. I dont think it pushed hm into buying the account or mis-sold it in any other 
way. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr As complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold him a Platinum account. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman