DRN-2806127
The complaint
 Mr B complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA failed to resolve a dispute in his favour 
after he sold an item which was paid for through its service. 
What happened
 Mr B sold a phone through an online market place, M, to a buyer in Russia, R, in November 
2020. The payment, £965 including postage, was completed through PayPal. Mr B said he 
provided postal tracking updates to R. On 9 December he received an email from R saying 
he had opened the box and it was empty. Mr B said he raised a dispute to M and provided 
several documents. M ruled in his favour. R then raised a dispute with PayPal. 
Mr B said he provided the same documents to PayPal as he had done to M, but PayPal 
ruled in favour of R, under its terms and conditions for an item significantly not as 
described dispute. It withdrew the funds from Mr Bs PayPal account and refunded £965 to 
R. Mr B believed PayPal had refunded a fraudulent buyer so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He said PayPal had not examined all the evidence he had provided. 
Our investigator concluded that PayPal hadnt acted fairly and hadnt considered Mr Bs 
evidence. He said it was impossible to say for certain whether the item was delivered as 
described and based his conclusions on what he believed most likely to have occurred. 
While he acknowledged PayPals right to apply its user agreement to resolve disputes, he 
thought there was no supporting evidence to suggest that only an empty box was delivered 
without the described phone and accessories. He asked PayPal to reverse the transaction of 
£965 and to pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
PayPal disagreed with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. It 
said it had acted within its agreed terms of use when deciding the outcome to the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be upholding this complaint for the following reasons.  
PayPal, as a payment platform, has policies in place to help resolve disputes between 
buyers and sellers. It said it has acted in line with those policies. It said in most outcomes to 
claims there will always be a party that will be dissatisfied with the decision however, all it 
can do to ensure that the claim is worked correctly is follow its claims process and act within 
its agreed terms of use and policies. I accept this is the case. Our service is an informal 
process. My role is not to decide whether the phone arrived. It is to decide whether I believe 
PayPal has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B when considering his dispute in 
relation to its terms and conditions. And I can depart from those where I believe it fair and 
reasonable to do so. 
PayPal also addressed the investigators comments regarding the balance of probabilities, in 
that the investigator thought it was likely that the item was dispatched by Mr B and received 
by R as described. PayPal said it bases its decisions on factual evidence, third-party 
evaluations and police reports, or other documentation which it specifies. It said it cant make 
assumptions on what the possibilities may have been.
I accept that this is how PayPal makes decisions. But Im not persuaded that in Mr Bs 
complaint its possible to determine the facts of what happened. The evidence is incomplete 
and contradictory. In those circumstances I decide on whether a business has responded 
fairly by considering what I believe is likely to have occurred, using the evidence that I 
consider to be the most persuasive. 
Mr B has provided all the emails exchanged with R prior to collection. These include delivery 
updates. His market seller record and these emails show Mr B as an attentive seller. When 
R said the phone was missing Mr B encouraged them to go to the police. The police report 
from R that PayPal has relied upon to make its decision appears to be genuine and may be 
helpful, but its not factual evidence the phone was missing from the packaging. There is no 
third-party evidence from R that the packaging was empty for example from the local post 
office where he collected the parcel from. In Rs email to Mr B he said 
when we came to the post office and he gave us a box we immediately opened it 
and it was just emptythe postman saw this situation and volunteered to help 
ushe asked for our package and started filling out some documents. He tried to 
contact the postmaster but he was not there today.
It does appear that R didnt provide any testimony from the postman for PayPal. And given 
that R mentioned he had a witness to opening the parcel, I consider this is something 
PayPal could have requested. 
Mr B has provided his post office receipt for the package. It is dated 24 November and the 
destination address matches that provided by R, shown on the posting label used by Mr B.
Mr B provided a delivery tracking report from Russian Post. It notes the item was released 
from England on 25 November and the logged weight was 1kg. Mr B has explained that he 
paid for postage and printed the label at home and made allowances for additional 
packaging when he did so. He said he did not use the additional packaging, so the parcel 
weighed less when it went into the system. Im persuaded this is the case. The copy of the 
label provided is one typically bought online, and the collection is click and drop. Postal 
companies generally rely on exact weight when parcels enter the system. In transit the 
parcels weight was recorded as 788g. 
According to the manufacturers website the weight of the phone itself is 226g. This doesnt 
include any accessories. Had the phone and accessories been missing at this stage I think 
the parcel wouldve weighed less than 788g.
The parcel arrived in the Russian Federation on 29 November and the weight logged was 
788g. The item was handed over to and released by customs on 2 December. The weight 
was logged again as 788g. It was handed over for delivery on 3 December, again the weight 
was logged as 788g. It arrived at the local distribution centre later that day and was available 
for pick up at the post office on 4 December. The weight was recorded as 788g. The tracking 
report then says the item was delivered to the addressee on 9 December. 
R said on the email that he collected the parcel from the post office and the tracking report 
says it was delivered to the addressee five days after. Its not clear to me if this means R 
collected it from the post office on 9 December or it was delivered to the address on the parcel. Either way the weight is recorded as 788g at this point. 
PayPal has said R filed a claim for significantly not as described and as a result the 
transaction was ineligible for its PayPal Seller Protection. It said it asked R to provide 
additional information to support the claim and he provided the police report. Ive looked at 
its terms and conditions for Seller Protection. While the claim significantly not as described 
is not covered by Seller Protection I can see that protection may apply with Items not 
received. PayPal doesnt appear to have considered any of Mr Bs own evidence. 
While R has said the item was significantly not as described its evident from the email trail 
that R has told Mr B quite clearly the phone was not received, it was not in the box. Had 
PayPal considered this it could have requested further evidence from R of their claim and 
could have challenged whether it was a case of item not received. An evidence 
requirement for item not received is for the seller to provide proof of delivery. Mr B has 
provided evidence of both proof of shipment and proof of delivery with a package weight Im 
persuaded is much heavier than an empty box. 
Mr B has provided a paper trail by independent third parties which logged the weight of the 
package throughout its journey right up to the delivery to the local post office in Russia. As 
Ive said above the weight is recorded as 788g throughout. R hasnt provided any comment 
as to why an empty box would be so heavy to either Mr B in their emails, to PayPal or to the 
police despite Mr B asking R to comment on this.
It seems likely PayPal hasnt considered Mr Bs evidence and doesnt appear to have 
challenged R with providing further evidence to support the claim as significantly not as 
described. So, Im not persuaded it properly investigated Rs claim and Im satisfied PayPal 
hasnt acted fairly or reasonably in dealing with Mr B. 
Mr B believes both he and PayPal have been defrauded by the buyer. He said R was new to 
M and deleted his account shortly after. While I can see that the emails R sent were a little 
over-familiar Im not in a position to comment on the nature of the transaction. 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
to:
refund Mr B £965;
pay 8% simple interest* on that amount from the date of transaction to the date of 
settlement; and
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused Mr B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to take off tax from this
interest. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman