DRN-3636641
The complaint
Miss M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society (Halifax) didnt 
respond to requests to send her a new paying in book.
Miss M is represented by a third party who Ill refer to as X.
What happened
Miss M holds an account with Halifax. X says Miss M asked Halifax to send her a new 
paying in book as she had cheques to pay into her account, but this wasnt received. X says 
Miss M repeated her request to Halifax a total of four times, but a book still wasnt received.
Unfortunately, Miss M was then incapacitated for health reasons. So, she signed a 
document giving X full authorization to conduct any of my business affairs and decisions on 
my behalf.
In or around March 2022, X telephoned Halifax to again request a paying in book for Miss M. 
X explained that while shed previously requested this on multiple occasions, one still hadnt 
been received. But Halifax werent able to assist as X wasnt a party to Miss Ms account or 
authorised to act for her. So, X insisted upon making a complaint on Miss Ms behalf.
X also wrote to the CEO of Halifax detailing Miss Ms complaint. X said Halifaxs failure 
meant theyd had to make a ten-mile round trip to a branch to pay in the cheques, incurring 
parking costs in the process.
Halifax wrote to Miss M a few days later. They confirmed theyd received a complaint from X 
on her behalf but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They did confirm theyd ordered a 
paying in book which would be sent to her home address. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, X wrote to them again in April 2022. X thought Miss Ms 
complaint should be reconsidered by a senior complaints director. Miss Ms complaint was 
then referred to this service. X said Miss M thought Halifax should pay compensation for 
their actions.
Having considered all the information provided by X and Halifax, our investigator wasnt able 
to find any evidence that Halifax had done anything wrong. They thought Halifax werent 
able to act upon Xs instructions or requests as they held no formal authority from Miss M to 
do so.
On Miss Ms behalf, X disagreed with our investigators findings. So, as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I believe was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
X says Miss M asked Halifax to send her a new paying in book on multiple occasions. There 
are several documents and records that have been provided by Halifax, including copies of 
their customer contact notes and files. Having considered these, I havent seen anything that 
shows Halifax received and/or acknowledged a request from her for a new paying in book. 
The first record of this request relates to Xs call to Halifax in March 2022.
Halifax told X they werent able to discuss Miss Ms account or act upon any instruction they 
provided as Miss M hadnt given a formal authority to do so. This is what I would expect in 
these circumstances. X has provided this service with a copy of a document signed by Miss 
M prior to the call to Halifax. X says Halifax werent provided with a copy of this document 
but neither did they ask for it. I havent seen anything to suggest Halifax were told that a 
written authority existed. In any event, the authorisation within the document provided by X 
isnt specific to Miss Ms account with Halifax. It also isnt addressed to them. So, even if 
Halifax had been provided with a copy of the document, I dont believe it was in a format that 
could reasonably be accepted by them.
In response to the complaint made on Miss Ms behalf, Halifax did order and despatch a 
paying in book to the address they held for her. So, although this follows a request being 
received from a party not formally authorised by Miss M, I think this was a reasonable 
response in order to resolve Miss Ms problem here.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed, but I havent found anything that suggests Halifax did 
anything wrong here or treated her unreasonably or unfairly. So, I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman