DRN-4283083
The complaint
Miss P complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc recording a default on her credit file in relation 
to an overdraft on her current account.
What happened
By January 2022, Miss Ps account had been overdrawn for around three months. HSBC 
contacted her about the outstanding balance, explaining how it could be repaid and setting 
out the potential consequences of non-payment within the timeframe it had given. 
While Miss P made some payments towards the overdraft, she wasnt able to clear it fully as 
HSBC had requested. As a result, HSBC ultimately put the account into default and notified 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs) who recorded the default on Miss Ps credit file.  
Unhappy with HSBCs actions, Miss P complained to it. HSBC rejected the complaint, saying 
it was entitled to register the default as she hadnt satisfied the terms of its Final Demand.
Still unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss P referred a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
believed HSBC had acted fairly in recording the default as it had.  
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators findings. Among other things, she said there was 
evident connection between HSBCs numerous scandals and the treatment of its 
customers. She said HSBC had been involved in fraud, tax evasion, and other illicit 
activities. Miss P said it was unjust that defaults  such as hers  should remain on credit 
files for as long as six years. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I briefly wanted to address Miss Ps comments about how HSBC 
operates, and has operated, in general and in relation to all its customers. In summary, there 
are limits to the powers this service has and the type of complaints we can consider. 
Although we can look at complaints from individual customers about products provided by 
certain financial businesses, we cant consider the general conduct of those businesses. We 
dont regulate the financial services industry in the UK, which is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I cant comment on many of the issues Miss Ps raised in 
support of her complaint.
Having thought about the issues I can consider, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Miss Ps account fell into an unarranged overdraft. The terms and 
conditions of the account, which Ive reviewed, made clear that:
All overdrafts are payable on demand. This means that we can ask you to pay the 
money back straight away. Usually, though, well give you advance notice.
I can see that HSBC didnt demand that Miss P pay the money back straight away. Instead, 
it wrote to Miss P on several occasions about the overdraft including:
January 2022  HSBC informed Miss P the overdraft wasnt being repaid in a 
reasonable time. HSBC asked Miss P to call it for help and explained that non-
payment could lead to a default notice and a demand being issued which would be 
reported to CRAs. 
January 2022  three weeks later HSBC told Miss P she owed £251.25. It asked her 
to get in touch for help.
February 2022  HSBC confirmed the amount payable and when payment was due 
by. It set out the consequences of not paying, which included any default being 
disclosed to CRAs, making it more difficult for her to borrow in future. 
April 2022  HSBC issued Miss P with a demand for the outstanding amount  which, 
by then, shed reduced to £205.56  owed. It explained when payment was due and 
that failure to pay might lead to a default being disclosed to CRAs.   
Overall, I think HSBC acted reasonably and sympathetically towards Miss P regarding the 
amount she owed. From what Ive seen, HSBC gave her adequate notice that the account 
was overdrawn, tried to engage with her about arranging repayment, and warned her of the 
consequences of non-payment in full.
I recognise that Miss P feels a sense of injustice given, for example, the payments she made 
to reduce the balance and the amount she owed. But I believe HSBC was still entitled to 
register the default and notify the CRAs as it did. The amount Miss P owed doesnt alter this.
Im sorry to hear from Miss P of the effects of the default on her and her financial situation. I 
realise the impact can be far reaching and that six years isnt an insignificant time for the 
default to remain on her credit file. However, I dont find that HSBCs treated her unfairly in 
the circumstances. And Im glad to see HSBCs confirmed that, following Miss P clearing the 
balance, it would ensure the default was reported on her credit file as having been satisfied. I 
dont require it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman