DRN-4199040
The complaint
Mr R complained through a representative that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund 
Ourselves) gave him loans without carrying out sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
A summary of Mr Rs borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly  
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 20/09/2022 06/11/20222 4 £99.60
2 £150.00 19/11/2022 05/01/2023 4 £71.10
3 £160.00 12/01/2023 30/01/2023 4 £71.36
4 £150.00 01/02/2023 21/02/2023 4 £70.80
Following Mr Rs complaint Fund Ourselves considered it and didnt uphold it because it said 
the loans were affordable for him, based on its checks. However, as a gesture of goodwill, in 
full and final settlement and on the basis the complaint wasnt escalated further  
Fund Ourselves offered to refund the interest charged for loan 4 which came to £24. Mr Rs 
representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be 
upheld. He said this because proportionate checks had been carried out and there was no 
indication that Mr R was in financial difficulties, or the loans couldnt be repaid in a 
sustainable manner. 
Mr Rs represented didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed. As no agreement 
has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors 
include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. As there were only four loans 
granted the adjudicator didnt think this applied to Mr Rs complaint and I agree. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint. Having considered everything, I am 
also concluding that Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks and so it doesnt need 
to take any further action. 
As part of his application, Mr R declared a monthly income of £2,100 for loan 1 and then 
£2,200 a month for loans 2 - 4. Fund Ourselves has shown that Mr Rs income was checked 
through a report provided by a credit reference agency. The results of that check indicated 
the amount Mr R declared was likely to be accurate. 
Mr R was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different variables, such 
as outstanding debt, rent and travel. He declared these costs to be £950 per month for loans 
1 and 2 and £1,000 per month for loans 3 and 4. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information provided, that Mr R had enough 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly loan repayment he was committed to of 
£99.60. Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loans to 
be affordable for Mr R. 
Before the loans were approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Fund Ourselves carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to 
do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Fund Ourselves couldnt do is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the information it received.  
Having looked at the results, there wasnt anything that I can see that wouldve led 
Fund Ourselves to think it should have carried out further checks or declined some or all of 
the lending. 
All credit searches showed Mr R hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last 3 years 
and by loan 4 didnt have any accounts enter delinquency within the last year.  It also knew 
that Mr R had 2 County Court Judgements  but these were recorded in 2020  so around 2 years before loan 1 was granted. I dont think these judgements wouldve given 
Fund Ourselves cause for concern given there didnt appear to have been any significant 
adverse payment information recorded since then. 
Ive also looked at the repayment of the loans to see whether that ought to have prompted 
further checks. I can see the loans were repaid much quicker than planned and without any 
obvious repayment problems. So, I dont think the way the loans were repaid wouldve given 
Fund Ourselves cause for concern. 
The lending chain also wasnt large enough to have made Fund Ourselves conclude that 
Mr R was using the loans in an unsustainable manner. 
This also means, that I dont yet think it had reached the point in the lending relationship 
where Fund Ourselves wouldve concluded it needed to have verified what Mr R was telling 
it. I appreciate that Mr Rs representative has provided copies of his bank statements. But in 
this case, taking account of the four loans, and what Mr R declared, it wouldve been 
disproportionate for Fund Ourselves to have viewed them.  
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved - 
which showed Mr R could afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im also 
satisfied Fund Ourselves was entitled to rely on the information Mr R declared about his 
financial situation. Finally, there also wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would 
either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
So, I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong when it approved the loans for Mr R and 
it therefore follows that I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman