DRN-3634322
The complaint
Ms L and Mr R are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has declined their 
request for a mortgage term extension.
To settle the complaint, Ms L and Mr R would like Halifax to extend the mortgage term until 
the point where Ms L reaches retirement age, at which point they will either re-finance onto 
equity release or sell the property. Alternatively, when a contentious probate matter is 
resolved on Mr Rs late mothers estate, they will pay off a lump sum of £150,000 on the 
mortgage, contingent on Halifax lowering the interest rate on the mortgage and providing an 
extension of time to enable them to repay the remaining balance of about £81,500.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms L and Mr R being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In June 2007, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, Ms L and Mr 
R took out a mortgage with Halifax. They borrowed £224,999 on an interest-only basis, over 
a term of 12 years. The intended repayment vehicle was that Ms L and Mr R would sell the 
property at the end of the term and move to a property overseas. 
The mortgage came to an end in 2019, but the balance wasnt repaid. Ms L and Mr R said 
that Brexit had made it impossible for them to move to their overseas property. Theyd also 
not been able to sell it due to the pandemic.
Ms L and Mr R put various proposals to Halifax, as follows:
a term extension for ten years until Ms L retires, at which point they would consider 
equity release, or a sale of the property;
a potential inheritance from Mr Rs late mothers estate, when a £150,000 lump sum 
payment could be made from Mr Rs inheritance. This would leave a balance of £81,500, 
which they would refinance onto a repayment mortgage.
Halifax didnt agree to extend the term pending equity release or sale. Halifax said in its final 
response letter that if evidence was provided showing imminent payment from Mr Rs late 
mothers estate, then Halifax would consider whether it would agree to transfer the 
remaining balance onto a capital repayment basis. However, Halifax couldnt give any 
guarantee about whether or not the bank would agree to this.
Ms L and Mr R brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened but didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. He 
considered the proposals Ms L and Mr R had made, but overall wasnt persuaded these 
were realistic or sustainable.
Whilst he acknowledged Ms L and Mr R ran their business from the property, and the 
disruption it would cause if they had to sell, he didnt think a term extension would be 
suitable. This is because it wouldnt result in any reduction in the balance and there was no 
guarantee of an equity release at the end of the term. Overall, he didnt think a term 
extension was in Ms L and Mr Rs best interests.
Ms L and Mr R asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. Theyve reiterated all the 
points theyve previously made about why they need a term extension. They have also 
clarified that the probate issue has become contentious and so appears unlikely to be 
resolved in the foreseeable future.
Ms L and Mr R say:
a rental property will cost them more than the mortgage;
the property is particularly suitable for them to be able to run their business from. so if 
they had to move, theyd lose their means of income;
the older Ms L gets (she is younger than Mr R by 9 years), the higher the percentage of 
equity release becomes available;
its also possible property prices will increase;
if they were to sell, theyd be left with a lump sum, which would start to devalue 
immediately.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive read and considered everything provided by Ms L and Mr R and Halifax, and 
Ive given very careful thought to all the points Ms L and Mr R have made. However, after 
doing so, Im afraid I am unable to uphold their complaint.
I note that the original intention in 2007 was for Ms L and Mr R to sell the property in 2019 
and move to their other property abroad. However, due to Brexit, thats now not possible. I 
fully understand and appreciate that the fact Ms L and Mr R now cant move abroad is due to 
matters outside their control  but its also not the fault of Halifax either.
The starting point is that the bank lent the money in the expectation that itd be repaid after 
12 years. When the mortgage wasnt repaid at the end of the term, Ms L and Mr R were in 
breach of contract. However, Halifax is required to give fair consideration to any requests for 
a term extension, as well as reasons for declining any requests. I dont have any power to 
substitute my own decision for that of the bank, where Halifax has fairly considered a 
request for lending.
Ive looked at the proposals Ms L and Mr R put to Halifax. However, these proposals are 
contingent on future events that may, or may not, happen. There is no guarantee, if the term was extended for ten years, that Ms L and Mr R would be 
able to secure an equity release mortgage after that, as this is dependent not only on the 
age of the borrowers, but the loan-to-value ratio; without a substantial rise in property prices, 
an equity release mortgage to repay the entire balance isnt likely to be a viable option.
Converting the mortgage to a repayment mortgage wouldnt be affordable, and so Im 
satisfied this isnt a realistic proposal either. 
Halifax was willing to consider the proposal to pay off a lump sum of £150,000 from Mr Rs 
inheritance, and re-finance the balance onto a repayment mortgage, if evidence could be 
provided of imminent payment of the legacy to Mr R. However, Ms L and Mr R now tell us 
that the probate issue is contentious and that there is a family dispute. Given this, Im not 
persuaded Halifax should reasonably be expected to wait for this issue to be resolved, given 
that Mr Rs mother passed away in 2018, and the estate is being contested amongst the 
family.
Overall, I think Halifax has given fair consideration to the proposals put forward. Although I 
appreciate why Ms L and Mr R consider the various options to be reasonable, Im not 
persuaded they provide Halifax with any guarantee of repayment of the mortgage.
I know Ms L and Mr R have continued to pay the interest on the outstanding balance each 
month, and they would like Halifax to reduce the interest rate. But Halifax cant offer them a 
new interest rate product where the term of the loan has expired. And, as explained above, a 
term extension isnt a viable proposition.
I will also add that the money was lent on the basis that it was for a residential mortgage. 
Halifaxs terms and conditions state that the mortgaged property must not be used wholly or 
partly for business purposes and that to do so is a breach of the agreement. So although I 
appreciate Ms L and Mr R have explained why they need a term extension from a business 
point of view, this is not a mortgage that was granted  either in whole or in part  for 
business purposes. 
I completely understand that the repayment strategy Ms L and Mr R intended to rely on in 
2007 now cant happen, and I am not holding them at fault for this. But this doesnt alter the 
fact that the loan is almost three years overdue, and Halifax is entitled to be repaid.
Ultimately, however, if there is no realistic prospect of the mortgage being repaid in the 
foreseeable future, Halifax will be entitled to seek possession through the courts. This is, of 
course, a last resort, but I would not want Ms L and Mr R to be under any misunderstanding 
that they will be able to remain in the property indefinitely, just paying the interest on the 
mortgage, until the time comes when they decide they are ready to take steps to repay 
Halifax. I am not saying this to alarm Ms L and Mr R, but the seriousness of the position they 
are in cannot be underestimated.
I think it might help Ms L and Mr R to speak to an independent financial adviser and local 
estate agents to see what their options are. If their decision is to sell the property, Halifax 
should allow a reasonable time for that to happen, provided the bank is given evidence from 
solicitors of progression of any sale.
My final decision
I know this isnt the outcome Ms L and Mr R were hoping for, but my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman