DRN-1740952
 
The complaint
Mr & Mrs R complain that Leeds Building Society mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr Rs sole name in 2005. 
The policy provided Mr R with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Leeds Building Society gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the 
product it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs?
Did Leeds Building Society give Mr and Mrs R the information they needed to decide 
whether to take out the policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs R are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs R have told me the policy was sold over the phone at an extremely difficult 
time in their lives. I've noted everything they've said, and am obviously sympathetic to the 
circumstances they were in. Mr and Mrs R have said they weren't given a choice about 
buying the policy, and that Leeds Building Society told them it was a compulsory part of their 
mortgage. 
I don't doubt Mr and Mrs R's recollection of what happened. And I accept it's likely that the 
policy was sold during a phone call that the society made to Mr and Mrs R. But the difficulty I have is that I can't be sure exactly what was discussed between them and Leeds Building 
Society when the policy was sold. 
I've looked carefully at the documents Leeds Building Society has provided from the time the 
policy was sold. I understand Mr and Mrs R's mortgage started at the end of May 2005. It 
seems the policy wasn't sold until the end of June 2005, and it was free for the first six 
months. 
Leeds Building Society has provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs R after 
the phone call where the policy was sold. The letter included a 'Statement of Customer 
Needs for Insurance' that set out the basis on which the society had recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs R. From what I've seen, there was nothing in the letter to suggest that 
taking the cover was compulsory.
As the policy wasn't sold until after Mr and Mrs R's mortgage had started, I think they 
would've realised that taking the cover wasn't a condition of getting the loan they wanted. 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs R have told me, I don't think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Leeds Building Society didn't make them aware the PPI was optional.
Leeds Building Society advised Mr and Mrs R to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
Mr R says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident. He and Mrs R were also in receipt of regular state 
benefits. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the employer and state 
benefits Mr and Mrs R were entitled to. Having the policy in place would mean Mr 
and Mrs R could use those benefits to pay for other expenses.  So I think Mr and Mrs 
R would have had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs R needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
 
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs R before they 
agreed to buy it, so I have considered whether clearer information about the cost would have 
affected their decision to proceed. Mr and Mrs R took out the policy, knowing they would 
have to pay something for it when the free period ended, and despite the sick pay Mr R was 
entitled to from his employer. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think Mr and Mrs R expected when they agreed to it, 
I dont think they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if 
they had been better informed.
 
  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman