DRN-2979215
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
during visits he made to a Halifax branch.
What happened
The events under consideration here took place at a time when Halifax were implementing 
special policies as a result of the Covid-19 global pandemic in order to prevent close 
personal contact and potential viral transmission.
Mr M visited a Halifax branch to deposit a cheque and was approached by a staff member 
who asked if there was a reason Mr M wasnt wearing a mask. Mr M showed the staff 
member his exemption lanyard but felt that the staff member was rude to him following this. 
Mr M was able to deposit the cheque in branch that day.
A few days later, Mr M visited the branch again to use the self-service machines. Mr M was 
told by the same staff member not to use a certain machine as it was too close to another 
self-service machine that was already being used. Mr M felt that this was because he wasnt 
wearing a mask and again felt that the staff member was being rude. Mr M was able to wait 
and use a self-service machine during that visit. 
A few days after Mr Ms second visit to branch, he received a letter from Halifax warning him 
about his abusive behaviour to staff in branch. Mr M wasnt happy about this, or with how he 
had been treated during the two branch visits, so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ms complaint. They didnt feel that they could verify exactly what had 
taken place during Mr Ms branch visits, but they apologised to Mr M for any perceived 
rudeness and made a payment to Mr M of £31, comprising of £25 compensation and £6 to 
cover the telephone costs.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the response that Halifax 
had already issued, including the £31 payment to Mr M, did represent a fair and reasonably 
resolution to the complaint. Our investigator also felt that Halifax were entitled to warn Mr M 
about future conduct if they felt it was necessary.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr M for what he felt was Halifax staff 
speaking to him in a rude manner during his visits to the Halifax branch. 
Given the impartial nature of this service, in circumstances such as this, we seek to obtain 
how the other party recall the events under consideration. In this instance, Halifax have 
provided the recollections of the staff member with whom Mr M spoke on both occasions, 
and it must be noted that the version of events provided by the staff member differs 
considerably from the version of events provided by Mr M.
Where this service is presented with two mutually conflicting testimonies, as is the case 
here, it becomes very difficult for us to take a justifiable position on what took place. Where 
possible, we try to make a decision on what we feel is most to likely to have happened, on 
balance, given all of the information available to us. However, sometimes this simply isnt 
possible, and I feel that this is one of those occasions. 
While Im therefore unable to reasonably comment on what exactly was or wasnt said 
between Mr M and the Halifax staff member on either visit, or on the general tone of those 
discussions, I can review this complaint on the basis of the known and undisputed facts.
In this instance, it isnt disputed that Mr M was approached by the staff member on his first 
visit to branch and asked whether there was a reason for his not wearing a mask. Mr M 
contends that he was wearing an exemption lanyard, while the staff member states that the 
lanyard was facing the wrong way and so couldnt be seen as being an exemption lanyard 
and looked like a work lanyard that many customers to branch wear during the working day.
If it was the case that Halifaxs staff member couldnt see Mr Ms exemption lanyard 
properly, and I have no reason to believe otherwise, then I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for the staff member to have questioned Mr M about this, especially given the 
seriousness of the emerging pandemic at that time.
It also isnt disputed by either party that Mr M was asked not to use a specific self-service 
machine because it was too close to another machine that was being used. This also doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me, given the need for safe personal distance to be observed and 
maintained.
As such Im satisfied that Halifax didnt treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably either in asking 
for confirmation that he had a reason to not wear a face covering or in asking Mr M not to 
use a specific self-service machine for social distancing reasons. 
And while I dont feel that I can reasonably comment on whether Mr M was spoken too 
rudely by the Halifax staff member on either occasion, I note that Halifax have apologised to 
Mr M for any perceived rudeness and made a payment of £31 to him. This feels fair to me, 
and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect.
Finally, while I can understand that Mr M is unhappy that he received a letter from Halifax 
warning him about potential future behaviour in branch, given that Im not able to determine 
what was or wasnt said in branch on either occasion, I also cant say that the issuance of 
this letter should be considered as being unfair.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Halifaxs response to Mr Ms complaint here, 
including the payment of £31 to Mr M, does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Halifax to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but I hope that he 
can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman