DRN-2385428
The complaint
Mr P complains about his buy to let mortgage with Santander UK Plc. He says its not fair 
that it offers new customers lower interest rates than it offers to existing customers.
What happened
Mr P has a buy to let mortgage with Santander. His existing fixed rate expired in May 2019, 
and so with the help of a broker he looked for a new rate  with Santander and elsewhere. 
He found that Santander offered a lower rate to new customers than existing customers 
taking a new rate. 
Mr P complains thats not fair. He says the regulator requires Santander to treat its 
customers fairly, so all should be offered the same rate. He said Santander didnt deal with 
or respond to his complaint. He said that as a result of waiting for a response, he didnt get 
his new interest rate booked in time and spent 19 days on the higher standard variable rate 
(SVR), paying more interest. Mr P would like to be moved to the new customer rate, and be 
refunded £633 interest for the 19 days on the SVR. 
Santander accepted that it hadnt originally dealt with Mr Ps complaint properly. But it didnt 
agree that it was unfair for different rates to be offered to new and existing customers  or 
that Mr P should be offered the new customer rate.
Santander said that as an existing customer it could offer Mr P a fixed rate of 1.74%. The 
equivalent rate for new customers was 1.69%. It said it offered slightly lower rates to attract 
new customers and in recognition that there were usually higher costs associated with 
moving lender than simply taking a new rate with an existing lender.
Santander said Mr P applied for a new rate online, in good time before his old one ended  
and before it had responded to his complaint. It had sent out the paperwork with time to 
spare for Mr P to sign and return it, but he had chosen not to return it immediately. So it 
wasnt responsible for his mortgage going onto SVR for 19 days. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr P asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. He said when he first registered his complaint, he asked 
the Santander adviser he spoke to whether its policy was in breach of the regulators rules 
on treating customers fairly. As she couldnt answer that, he asked for a definitive reply from 
Santanders compliance department  and was entitled to wait for a reply before committing 
himself to a higher rate. So Santanders delay in dealing with his complaint caused him to 
spend time on the SVR. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander offers slightly different rates to new and existing customers. I dont think thats 
unfair, or in breach of the regulators rules. This is a buy to let mortgage, meaning its 
unregulated. And while Santander has wider obligations to treat customers fairly, I dont think 
its acted unfairly in this case.
Treating customers fairly doesnt have to mean treating every customer the same. 
Santander has a wide range of interest rate products, each with their own eligibility criteria  
so not all customers will qualify for all rates. Thats standard practice and not unfair. Fairness 
requires that each application is considered consistently on its own merits against fair criteria 
 not that every outcome is the same.
One of Santanders criteria is that it offers slightly lower rates to new customers than existing 
customers. The difference in this case is marginal  0.05%. And Santander has explained 
that its business model includes attracting new customers. It prices its products accordingly 
 taking into account that a new customer will often have incurred costs an existing customer 
may not have. Its a legitimate commercial decision for a lender to price its products 
according to the sections of the market it wants to attract and retain, and I dont think that 
resulted in an unfair outcome in this case. I dont therefore think that Santander was required 
to offer Mr P the 1.69% rate it offered to some (not all) new customers.
And while Santander should have treated Mr Ps first contact as a complaint and responded 
to him in line with its complaint procedure, and although it told him it would do so but didnt, I 
dont think its failure to do so means that it should refund the additional interest for the 19 
days Mr P was on the SVR. Its apologised for not initially registering it as a complaint, and I 
think thats fair.
Mr P first complained to Santander on 22 March. His complaint was not treated as a 
complaint and no response was sent. He booked a rate online on 24 April and the paperwork 
was sent out within a few days. Mr P then signed it on 6 May and it was received back by 
Santander on 9 May. His old rate expired on 3 May, and the new one took effect on 23 May.
But although Mr Ps concerns werent treated as a complaint on 22 March, he was told that 
he wasnt eligible for a new customer rate. He was told a complaint could be raised, but that 
wouldnt change things. He knew the date his old rate expired. And he decided not to apply 
for the rate online for another month  and then to not return the paperwork until after the old 
rate had expired. Mr P could have had a new rate in place by 3 May, but chose to delay his 
application. Santander isnt responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman