DRN-2150820
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) following a 
claim.
What happened
Mr A had a car insurance policy with UKI. In March 2020 he was involved in an incident that 
meant his car was beyond economical repair. UKI offered a cash settlement of £45,250 
based on the market value of the car. Mr A wasnt happy with the settlement as he said the 
valuation was too low. He made a complaint to UKI.
UKI didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its valuation was fair and as Mr A had bought his 
car at auction originally, it would be slightly lower as it had taken that into account.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this as he said he wouldnt be able to get a replacement for that 
amount. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
said he didnt think it was fair for UKI to base its valuation on auction prices. He checked our 
trade guides and recommended UKI pay an additional £3,710 to match a fair market value.
UKI accepted our investigators findings. However Mr A still didnt think this was enough. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has agreed with our investigators valuation based on the market value of the car, rather 
than the auction price. So I will not consider this part of the complaint. However, Mr A 
disagrees with our investigators valuation of his car. So I will decide if this is fair and 
reasonable.
 
When considering whether a valuation is fair and reasonable, we consider prices provided 
by trade guides. This service considers these to be the most reliable for caluations as they 
are based on the amount vehicles has been sold for, rather than just advertised prices. The 
values also take into account the specific car make and model, mileage and age. And the 
condition of the car.
I have looked at the valuations given by the trade guides available. And I can see that a fair 
average of these valuations is £48,910. This average is based on Mr As car at its age and 
mileage at the time of the incident. It also takes into account that it was in a good condition. 
Having reviewed these valuations, I agree this is fair and reasonable.
Mr A has provided adverts that show that there are similar vehicles advertised at prices 
around £6,000 more than this amount. And I can understand why he feels that the valuation 
is too low. However, these are advertised prices and not the sale price. And they arent 
based on the exact age and mileage of Mr As vehicle. For example the advert provided is 
for a 2019 model rather than 2018.
For these reasons, I think it is most fair to rely on trade guides for an accurate valuation. And 
therefore I agree with our investigators view that a fair and reasonable valuation of Mr As 
car at the time of the incident is £48,910. I will therefore require UKI to pay an additional 
£3,710 as part of the settlement. I will also require it to pay 8% simple interest from the date 
of the claim until the date the settlement is paid to make up for the time Mr A has been 
without the money
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr A an additional 
£3,710 on top of the settlement already paid. And pay interest at 8% simple per year from 
the date of the loss until the date settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman