DRN-4307667
The complaint
Miss W complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable catalogue shopping account and credit limit increases.
What happened
Miss W was provided with the following credit limits on her account with Very:
Lending decision Date Limit
Original limit September 2011 £3,000
1st limit increase February 2012 £3,600
2nd limit increase April 2012 £3,900
3rd limit increase September 2012 £4,200
4th limit increase November 2012 £4,500
5th limit increase December 2012 £4,800
6th limit increase March 2013 £5,000
In February 2023 Miss W complained to Very saying it had irresponsibly provided her with 
this credit account and credit limit increases. She said had Very conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks before each lending decision it would have identified each of these 
limits were unaffordable for her.
Very didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint saying its checks were reasonable and proportionate; 
and that it went on to make fair lending decisions in each instance. Miss W didnt accept 
Verys outcome and brought her complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ws complaint and upheld it. He considered Verys checks 
werent reasonable or proportionate and that it hadnt gone on to make fair lending decisions 
at any of the lending events.
Miss W accepted our investigators assessment. Very disagreed and proposed a 
counteroffer which Miss W declined. As such the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; both Miss W and Very are aware of this approach.
Very needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly lent 
to Miss W. The relevant rules, regulations, and guidance at the time of each of Verys 
lending decisions required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These 
checks needed to assess Miss Ws ability to afford the credit limit being approved and repay 
it sustainably, without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
considering things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well as the 
borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Very to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Very says its checks at the point of the original lending decision consisted of it completing a 
credit check to obtain an understanding of Miss Ws existing credit commitments and credit 
history. Its said its checks at all subsequent limit increases consisted of the same credit 
check as well as a review of Miss Ws management of her Very account. 
Having carefully considered Verys arguments Im not persuaded its checks were reasonable 
and proportionate at any of the lending events; or that it went on to make fair lending 
decisions in any instance.
I say this because Very provided Miss W with a significant limit when originally providing her 
with this credit account. Very identified through its credit check that Miss Ws existing 
outstanding debt towards fixed terms loans stood at around £14,600, and her total available 
limits towards running credit accounts stood at around £5,000. However, it didnt obtain any 
details of Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
So, I dont consider it was in a position where it could reasonably satisfy itself that this initial 
significant level of credit, and all further increases, where sustainably affordable for Miss W. I 
say this as it had identified that Miss W could have a potential total outstanding debt of just 
under £20,000 at the point of the initial lending decision, but it hadnt satisfied itself how this 
debt, and the credit it was looking to provide Miss W with, was going to be repaid. 
Based on the level of the original limit provided and the information Very did obtain from the 
credit check it obtained, I consider reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance 
would have led Very to verify Miss Ws income and expenditure. This is in addition to 
obtaining details of her existing credit facilities as it did, so that it had a full understanding of 
her financial situation as part of its creditworthiness checks to support its lending decisions.
As I dont consider Very completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on to 
consider what these checks would likely have shown it at the time of the lending decisions.
Miss W has provided us with bank statements covering the three months leading up to the 
original lending decision, as well as several months after. Very could have looked to verify 
Miss Ws income and expenditure by any way it saw fit. But in the absence of any other 
contradictory information, I consider these statements allow me to obtain an understanding 
of Miss Ws financial circumstances around the time of the initial lending event. 
Miss Ws income averages around £1,680 across the three months leading up to Verys 
original lending decision. Through the statements and Miss Ws testimony Ive been able to 
identify several regular non-discretionary payments which average around £1,000 per 
month. These include payments towards rent, council tax, utilities, a mobile phone contract, 
insurances, travel expenses and food. Miss W was also making payments to her existing 
lines of credit, and on average this totalled around £700 per month. This figure is made up of two larger payments which appear to be towards loan repayments as both have loan as 
part of the narrative within the statements. The payments Miss W makes towards her other 
mail order and credit cards are more likely, on balance, minimum payments rather than 
payments clearing balances in full. I say this because Im persuaded by Miss Ws testimony 
that she was stuck in a cycle of debt, only making minimum payments towards her debts. 
And the payments to these lines of credit are consistently in the tens of pounds across all 
three months. 
So, Miss Ws payments towards her non-discretionary expenses and existing credit 
commitments total on average around £1,700. And as Ive already found above, Miss Ws 
income averaged around £1,680 per month. So, Miss W was already in a negative position 
on a monthly basis before factoring in monthly payments towards this account.
This is further supported as Miss Ws bank account enters an overdraft position in each of 
the three months leading up to Verys initial lending decision, and incurs interest and 
charges. So, Miss W wasnt able to maintain her existing non-discretionary expenses and 
credit commitments on a monthly basis without using borrowing by way of an overdraft to do 
so. It therefore follows had Very completed reasonable and proportionate checks that it 
would have been on notice that Miss W was already in a position where she was using 
borrowing to repay borrowing on a monthly basis, and by providing this lending Very would 
be only worsening this position. 
So, had Very completed reasonable and proportionate checks I consider it ought reasonably 
to have identified any level of lending wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss W; and it would 
therefore have identified Miss W wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. As such, Im satisfied 
Very didnt make a fair lending decision when approving the original credit limit. 
As Ive found Very shouldnt have provided Miss W with the initial credit, and from the 
evidence I have that her financial situation didnt significantly improve in the following months 
(the use of her overdraft facility increased both in terms of the level of overdraft balance and 
the number of days in the facility), it follows Very shouldnt have provided any of the credit 
limit increases. As such, I dont consider Very made fair lending decisions where approving 
any of the limit increases.
Putting things right
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very approved Miss W with a catalogue 
shopping account that I dont consider should have been provided. I think Miss W should pay 
back the amount shes borrowed because shes had use of the funds. But I dont consider it 
fair for Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to be able to charge any 
interest or charges. Therefore, in order to put things right Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Very should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied
a) If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss W along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement
b) If after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Very should arrange an 
affordable/suitable repayment plan with Miss W for the remaining balance
Once any outstanding balance has been repaid Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file 
in relation to this account *HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to 
deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss W a certificate showing how much 
tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as 
Very and I direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman