DRN-1618726
The complaint 
Mrs G complains that payment protection insurance (PPI) was mis-sold to her alongside a 
personal reserve account. The business responsible for this complaint is Allianz Insurance 
Plc. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs G did not agree with that 
view. She said that she was sold PPI by a large department store  not by Allianz - and 
shed had no dealings with Allianz. She had made a separate complaint about another card 
with that department store, which had been upheld. Mrs G also said that her personal 
circumstances would have prevented her from making a PPI claim, and she had sufficient 
funds with which to make payments if she was out of work. Mrs G told us she had not 
agreed to take a PPI policy and no proof had been provided that she did so. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Before I consider the merits of this complaint, I want to make clear why it has been set up 
against Allianz. I appreciate that Mrs G did not have any dealings with Allianz as such when 
she bought the PPI cover. The PPI was sold alongside a credit facility for a large department 
store  but Allianz is the insurer in this case. And it has accepted responsibility for the sale. 
So whilst the credit was linked only to the department store, the PPI policy was underwritten 
by Allianz. 
Turning now to the issue of whether the PPI cover was mis-sold, Mrs G told us in her PPI 
questionnaire that she couldnt remember how the PPI cover was sold. Allianz told us she 
applied through the post at the same time as she applied for the credit facility. Looking at the 
type of application form that was used at the time, I think it is most likely that the sale 
proceeded as Allianz said. As this was a postal sale, I think Mrs G would have been able to 
complete the application form in her own time and at her own pace. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs G would have known she had a choice about 
buying this cover and that she agreed to take it out. I appreciate I dont have a copy of the 
original form that Mrs G completed. So I have decided what happened by applying the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have decided what is most likely to have happened 
based on the evidence before me. 
I appreciate that Mrs G told us that she didnt tick the box to apply for PPI. And I dont doubt 
that what she told us is what she honestly remembers about the sale. But if Mrs G couldnt 
remember how shed bought PPI, its not immediately clear to me how she could be so certain that she did not tick the box agreeing to PPI. Ive been provided with evidence as to 
her monthly statements and I can see the PPI premiums clearly set out there. If Mrs G hadnt 
agreed to this cover, I think she would have queried what those charges were for when she 
received her monthly bills. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she did. 
Aside from ticking the box, Mrs G would have also provided Allianz with details about the 
insured person, including their date of birth. I think it is unlikely that the policy would have 
been set up without that information and I think its most likely that Mrs G provided it.  On 
balance, I think Mrs G probably filled the form out to say she wanted PPI. I think the wording 
on the application form is sufficiently clear to indicate Mrs G had a choice about whether to 
take the PPI policy. If she didnt want the cover, she could have left that part on the form 
blank. 
When the PPI was sold to Mrs G, Allianz had to make sure she had enough information 
about the cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That 
information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the application form, its possible the information Mrs G was given could have 
been better. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to 
consider whether she would have acted differently if Allianz had told her everything it should 
have done. To help me decide what she would have done, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what Mrs G told us about her personal 
circumstances. 
I can see if Mrs G had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance would have been 
paid every month until the balance was repaid. I know that Mrs G had existing resources, but 
with this cover, she could have used those resources on her other essential expenditure at 
what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. 
Mrs G told us she was in good health when she bought this PPI policy and so I dont think 
she would have been affected by any of the exclusions about medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about her wider circumstances that would have stopped her 
from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
Overall, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs G if she was out of work. With all of 
this in mind, I dont think more or better information about the cover would have caused her 
to act differently. 
I appreciate that Mrs G told us she had other PPI complaints upheld. I can't comment 
specifically why that may be. What I would say is while Mrs G's personal circumstances may 
well have been the same, the terms and conditions for each policy may well have been 
different. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mrs G. But it follows that I cannot uphold this 
complaint. I dont require Allianz to take any further action. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman