DRN-3466312
The complaint
A has complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down a claim on its business 
interruption insurance policy after it was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr H has brought the complaint on As behalf.
A has also been helped in bringing this complaint by a representative. For ease of reading,
Ill refer to the representatives actions and comments as being those of A.
What happened
A held a business interruption insurance policy with Society of Lloyds. It claimed on its 
policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic.
Society of Lloyds turned down As claim as it said A didnt have cover for the losses it 
was claiming for. 
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response, A brought its complaint to us. It thought its 
claim should be covered under different sections of the policy. Ive set out a summary of 
its submissions below.
Damage
A said the business interruption section of the policy covers damage and the definition of 
damage is wide enough to cover a loss of use even where there hasnt been physical 
damage. A said the policy should cover losses flowing from the interruption of its business 
due to Covid-19 as its business had been prevented from operating properly and this 
amounted to damage.
A also said that there is nothing in the policy which specifically excluded the outbreak of 
Covid-19 and the effect of it on its business and if this was intended it should have been 
properly drafted into the policy as an exclusion.
Because it feels the definition of damage is wide enough to cover the circumstances its 
found itself in, A also feels the Denial of access and Suppliers section of the policy should 
engage as the Government prevented A from accessing its premises as a result of the 
lockdown it imposed.
Disease
A said the list of illnesses set out in the policy arent an exhaustive list and theres nothing 
in the policy to say that new illnesses cant be added. A said the list of illnesses are very 
similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and therefore its reasonable to 
conclude that Covid-19 should be added. 
A said there had been a number of cases of Covid-19 within 5 miles of its premises and 
two members of staff have had to self-isolate due to Covid-19 symptoms, so this part of 
the policy should cover its claim.
Defective sanitation
A thinks the defective sanitation section of cover engages in the circumstances of As claim 
because restrictions were imposed due to the inability to meet social distancing guidelines. 
The risk this poses to staff and customers amounts to defective sanitary arrangements.
Other factors
A also says theres no pandemic exclusion in the policy so it had an expectation it would be 
covered and Society of Lloyds shouldnt be able to limit cover for Covid-19.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into As claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think
the policy provided cover. A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on As business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out 
in the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy 
to see if Society of Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining As claim.
Damage
The business interruption section of the policy says:
In the event of loss as a result of interruption of, or interference with the business following 
loss or destruction or damage to the hotel as a result of:
a peril insured against under Section two (Contents); or
glass breakage arising under Section two (Contents), extra benefit 1 - glass
breakage
The Denial of access section of the policy covers business interruption resulting from 
damage as defined in this section, to property in the vicinity of the hotel which prevents 
the use of the hotel or access thereto.
The Suppliers extension covers interruption caused by damage as defined in this section, 
giving rise to destruction or damage at any of your suppliers premises.
A feels that the references to damage in these parts of the policy can extend to temporary 
loss of use of As premises or property as well as businesses in its vicinity and its suppliers. I dont however agree that this section would provide cover for As claim, because I 
dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage as defined by the 
policy because there was no loss or destruction in its ordinary meaning as a result 
of an insured peril under the policy.
When making this determination Ive also considered other cases which I think are relevant 
to As claim, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 
(Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels PlA [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London 
Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that for damage to have occurred, there would need to have been a physical 
change or an altered state to As property or business premises which made it less 
valuable. But thats not what happened here. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in As 
premises. However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare 
settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an 
excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on As contents or its premises generally. And the 
presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage.
So all in all I dont think A is able to show that damage occurred in this case. But 
even if it did- I dont think A would be able to demonstrate the additional requirement 
of the policy- namely that damage occurred as a result of one of the insured events. 
None of those apply in the circumstances of As claim, nor do they bear any similarity 
to the circumstances of the claim A is making.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that Society of Lloyds was required to 
specifically exclude an outbreak of Covid-19 in order for the damage requirement of 
the policy to be interpreted differently.
And because I dont think the definition of damage covers the circumstances of 
As claim, I cant agree that the Denial of access or Suppliers section of the policy 
engages either- which both require damage to be present.
Disease
This section of the policy covers a notifiable disease occurring in the area or any 
discovery of an organism likely to result in the occurrence of notifiable disease at As 
premises. 
notifiable disease means any of the following human infections our human contagious 
diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, 
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Yellow 
Fever.
Covid-19 isnt in that list which means that its not covered by the policy. When reaching 
this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Society of Lloyds might have 
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover 
for all notifiable diseases. While I accept that the list in As policy reflects some of the 
Governments list of notifiable diseases, there are a number of differences as the investigator has explained. As policy does not say that it covers notifiable diseases and 
instead sets out a specified list of illnesses which are covered by the policy.
And while there is nothing in the section that specifically says any new illnesses are 
excluded, there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for 
illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. This issue was 
considered in In Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Company Ltd [2021] EWHA 412 
where the Judge said:
The Policy in this case takes a very different approach setting out its own static list 
including only a limited list of the diseases that were known to the parties at the time. 
That list does not include diseases that are subsequently discovered, for the simple 
reason that they are not on the list. There is no future-looking "catch-all" wording. Thus 
whilst a "catch- all" "Notifiable Disease" clause is (depending on its wording) likely to be 
inclusive of diseases which are added (after the time of contracting) to the statutory list 
of 'Notifiable Diseases', a defined list of diseases is not.
Overall, I dont think this section can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases, so 
even if there were cases of Covid-19 within the area as defined by the policy, or indeed 
at As premises, this doesnt cover its claim.
Defective sanitation
A has said the defective sanitation clause provides cover for its claim. 
Ive looked at that clause and I dont agree. Thats because it covers loss resulting from 
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at (As 
premises) which causes restrictions on the use of (As premises) on the order or advice of 
the competent local authority
For this section to provide cover, the restrictions placed on As premises would need to be 
due to an accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements. I think this 
term would reasonably be taken to mean the closure was due to problems with the 
premises toilets or washing facilities, rather than to allow for social distancing or to prevent 
the spread of a disease by closing. And I cant see how A having difficulties sourcing an 
adequate supply of toilet roll at this time would fall into this bracket. Thats because A 
wasnt closed because of this, it was closed due to a Government imposed lockdown or in 
anticipation of it.  And overall, I dont think the Governments advice on social distancing or 
requiring businesses to close was due to a defect in their sanitary arrangements as 
businesses were required to close irrespective of their sanitary arrangements.
Other factors
A also says theres no pandemic exclusion in the policy so it had an expectation it would be 
covered and Society of Lloyds shouldnt be able to limit cover for Covid-19.
Although A might have had an expectation its claim would be covered, or understood the
same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think As policy provides
cover for its claim.
I know A feels Society of Lloyds should have drafted a pandemic exclusion into the policy if 
it wanted to specifically exclude Covid-19 from cover. I think the policy sets out a number of 
different circumstances in which A would be covered for business interruption. Its true that 
claims arising out of Covid-19 dont attract cover, but this doesnt mean that Society of 
Lloyds was required to specifically exclude cover for this. I think the policy goes far enough to limit cover for what Society of Lloyds was prepared to cover in the circumstances of As 
claim, and that Society of Lloyds interpreted those terms fairly when turning down its claim.
I understand this isnt the outcome A was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Society of Lloyds to pay Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold As complaint against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman