DRN-3453378
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS), reported negative 
information on his credit file after he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS to acquire a car 
first registered in October 2012. The cash price of the car was around £15,500. The amount 
of credit was around £14,550. Mr M provided an advance payment of around £950, and 
there were 48 monthly repayments of around £250 followed by an optional final payment of 
approximately £6,229, plus an option to purchase fee of £1.  
In May 2020, Mr M chose to return the car early by exercising his right to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. When Mr M returned the car, he still had £138 owing on the 
agreement. So, to clear the balance he agreed a three-month payment plan with BMWFS to 
make three payments of £45.60 in the months of September, October, and November of 
2020. 
Also, when the car was returned there were some end of contract charges that Mr M was 
responsible for. In October 2020, Mr M contacted BMWFS and he said he was unhappy as 
he received two notices of default for approximately £656. He said that this was less than 30 
days after receiving an invoice from BMWFS. He said that he doesnt dispute these and he 
intends to pay them, but he was unhappy that BMWFS had not contacted him regarding this, 
especially as they wouldve been aware of another payment arrangement that he had with 
them at the time. In this correspondence, he said he wanted to agree a payment 
arrangement for the end of contract charges, and he was not happy this was showing up as 
arrears on his credit file. He also said that he tried to call them several times without any 
success.  
In January 2021, BMWFS contacted Mr M and said that he needed to call them to set up a 
payment plan for the remaining balance. So, while they appreciate that he kept on making 
the payments of around £45.60 each month, no actual arranged payment plan had been 
agreed and put in place. They explained that due to Covid-19 their telephone lines were 
busy, but they were working so he should call and wait until he gets through. BMWFSs 
contact notes show that in April 2021, Mr M contacted BMWFS and a payment plan was put 
in place. This was for another 10 months of Mr M making payments £45.60 and one final 
payment of £17.34.    
Mr M was unhappy that BMWFS was reporting adverse information on his credit file 
including missed payments, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that BMWFS should remove adverse information reported on Mr 
Ms credit file, but didnt think they needed to pay any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In August 2021, when BMWFS wrote to Mr M, they said that because no payment 
arrangement had been put in place, they felt they were within their right to report the adverse 
information to the credit reference agencies. 
However, Mr M kept making payments without having an arranged payment plan and it was 
not until January 2021 that BMWFS clearly explained this to him, which was a few months 
after he initially contacted them. I think there was some confusion on both sides, and I think 
that BMWFS couldve done more to clearly explain to Mr M that he needed to set up a 
separate payment plan for the end of contract charges. So, I think it is fair and reasonable 
that they are now happy to remove any adverse information reported on Mr Ms credit file 
regarding the repayment of the end of contract charges.
Mr M also feels that BMWFS should write off the remainder of the money he owes them to 
properly reflect the impact this situation had on him. He said that he spent a lot of time 
dealing with this issue. So, Ive taken into consideration everything he told us about the 
impact of BMWFSs mistake had on him, and Ive taken into consideration the time it took 
BMWFS to rectify the situation. Considering everything, I think that Mr M at times also took 
too long to contact BMWFS, especially after January 2021 when they told him that he 
needed to call them to set up a repayment plan. So, I think that BMWFS agreeing to remove 
any adverse information reported on his credit file regarding the repayment of the end of 
contract charges is fair. And I dont think that BMWFS needs to write off the remining 
balance or pay Mr M any other compensation.
Ive also taken into consideration that Mr M says that he was unable to get credit while the 
information on his credit file was being incorrectly reported. So, Ive considered this, but Ive 
not seen enough evidence for me to conclude that BMWFSs reporting of adverse 
information on Mr Ms credit file was most likely the reason for Mr M directly incurring a loss. 
From the available evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest that the adverse information 
recorded on his credit file was why he couldnt obtain credit. So, I cant say that most likely 
its BMWFSs action that directly caused him a financial detriment.
So, while Mr M has my sympathy, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask BMWFS 
to write off the remaining balance or pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited to take the following actions:- Remove any adverse information, including missed payment markers, recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file in relation to the end of contract charges for his hire purchase 
agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman