DRN-3213821
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the advice he was given by Executive Benefit Consultancy 
Limited to transfer the benefits from two defined benefit occupational pension schemes to a 
personal pension plan was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent both parties her 
assessment of it where she set out the background and circumstances to the case. 
In summary, Mr W met with Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited (which I will refer to as 
EBCL) on a number of occasions prior to it recommending he transfer his defined benefits 
from the two occupational pension schemes (OPSs). It was recorded that at the time of the 
advice to transfer the first OPS Mr W:
Was in his mid-fifties, married with no financially dependent children
Was employed on a part-time basis earning £23,000 per annum. He also ran his own 
business providing an annual income of £12-15,000 
Owned his home outright (with his wife) worth approximately £420,000. They also 
had a holiday home worth £160,000 (with no mortgage)
Had a balanced attitude to risk
Had over five years deferred service in in one OPS (OPS1). The transfer value was 
approximately £133,000
Was an active member of another defined benefits OPS  (OPS2)
Also had some personal pension provision.
The investigator noted that EBCL sent Mr W a suitability report which summarised Mr Ws 
objectives as:
Wanting to phase in his retirement and supplement income as necessary by flexibly 
accessing pension, to allow more time for holidays. Including using tax free sums to have tax 
efficient income.
A Transfer Value Analysis Report (TVAS) showed that the new pension plan recommended 
would need to achieve a growth rate of 10.7% per annum to age 65 to match the benefits 
provided by the first OPS, or 9.25% if a tax-free lump sum was taken.
EBCL recommended that Mr W transfer his pension, and having accepted that advice, just 
over £133,000 was transferred to the new pension plan in early 2014.
In March 2015 Mr W again met with EBCL to discuss OPS2. Hed accepted a redundancy 
package from his employer. The OPS offered a transfer value of £22,949. The TVAS 
showed the new plan would need to grow by 13.79% per annum to age 65 to match the 
OPS benefits, or 11.17% if taking a tax-free lump sum.
Mr W also accepted this recommendation, and the OPS benefits were transferred to the 
new plan in 2015.
The investigator thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said the main issue to 
determine was whether the advice given to Mr W to transfer his OPS benefits was suitable.
She noted that the two OPSs offered Mr W a secure income for life. They formed a 
significant part of his total pension provision, and were clearly important to him as described 
in the fact find.
The investigator referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). COBS 19.1.6 said that when advising a retail client who was 
a member of a defined benefits OPS about whether to transfer, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer wouldnt be suitable. And that a firm should only then consider a 
transfer to be suitable if it could clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer was in its clients best interests.
The investigator said that the transfer of OPS1 took place during the period when the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. She said 
whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, she considered they provided a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The investigator said that the relevant discount rate for OPS1 was 4.8%. This compared to 
the investment returns (critical yields) required to match OPS1 at age 65; as noted above - 
10.7% per year or 9.25% if tax free cash was taken. So the new plan needed to grow at 
more than double the 4.8% just to match the benefits available from OPS1 assuming no tax 
free cash was taken at age 65.
The investigator said this meant Mr W would have had to take on a much higher level of risk 
than he was willing to take with his pension. 
The investigator went on to consider whether there were other reasons that clearly 
demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
She noted that EBCL had recorded that Mr Ws main objective wasnt to have a guaranteed 
income, but rather the flexibility to drawdown sums as and when he needed them and have 
the enhanced death benefits available. She noted that Mr W had said these sounded more 
like a nice to have (when making his complaint), and he had no specific need to access his 
pension in this way. The investigator said although the death benefits would have been 
lower from OPS1, she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest there was a need for enhanced 
death benefits. She didnt think this was a legitimate reason to justify giving up the 
guaranteed benefits offered by OPS1. She also said it was recorded that Mr W was in good 
health, and he could have obtained life cover if he wanted to leave an additional lump sum to 
his family. 
The investigator said she didnt think the evidence suggested that Mr W had a genuine need 
to access his pension flexibly. At the time of the transfer of OPS1 it was recorded that Mr W 
intended to work until age 60, he was working three days a week, and had no debts or other 
financial commitments. Mr W had his own business generating supplementary income to his 
salary. He also had two personal pensions that he could have used for additional flexibility. 
The investigator didnt think there was any urgent need for access to the tax-free cash from 
his pension.
The investigator also noted that EBCL had said Mr W had concerns about his previousemployers stability, and preferred moving his pension away from it. However the 
investigator said that even if Mr W had left his pension with OPS1 and in the worst-case 
scenario the scheme had been wound up, it would have been protected by the Pension 
Protection Fund, which EBCL should have stressed to Mr W. 
Overall, in respect of the transfer from OPS1, the investigator wasnt persuaded the advice 
to transfer was suitable. And she hadnt seen evidence to show that that it was in Mr Ws 
best interests to transfer.
The investigator went onto to consider the advice given to transfer OPS2. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match OPS2s benefits at age 65 was 
quoted as 13.79% per year, or 11.17% if tax free cash was taken. Again, the investigator 
referred to the discount rate as described above. The comparable discount rate was 4.3% 
per year. So the new plan had to grow by about three times the discount rate just to match 
the benefits available from OPS2 without taking tax free cash.
At the time of the second transfer advice Mr W was retiring from his employed work. The 
investigator thought that as Mr W had already transferred the largest of his pension funds 
(OPS1), he would likely have gone along with the advice to consolidate this smaller pension 
from OPS2. However she thought if Mr W had been previously advised to remain in OPS1 it 
would have changed the position in 2015 and the advice he should have received at that 
time.
Ultimately, the investigator wasnt persuaded Mr W had any genuine objectives that couldnt 
have been met by his existing provision and schemes. She didnt think the advice to transfer 
from either scheme was justified. She also hadnt seen evidence that showed it was in Mr 
Ws best interests to transfer to the new personal pension plan. She thought that Mr W 
would likely have remained in his occupational pension schemes if he had been advised to 
do so. 
EBCL didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary:
Advice was given to Mr W and his wife. It referred to their circumstances at the time; 
in particular how their income situation had changed. They had been used to a 
lifestyle supported by a high level of family income. Mr Ws wife had retired but not 
taken income from her defined benefit scheme. She had inherited £230,000 which 
had been invested. They were both taking an income from the business. But the work 
was sporadic. So income was required from the pension and savings on a flexible 
basis.
The goal was to create an income of £2,000 net per month with potential to draw up 
to £3,000 per month and in doing so minimise the tax payable. The income from the 
business was unreliable, and Mr W wanted to reduce his part time working hours.
The maximum starting income from OPS1 was £3,800 gross per annum. The initial 
amount drawn from the personal pension of £5,000 was to cover the net income 
requirement in the first six months. So OPS 1 wouldnt have met this requirement. It 
had also considered the annuity option. Having considered all options presented,    
Mr W confirmed the flexibility under a personal pension met his requirement.
Prior to the transfer of OPS 2 Mr W had given notice to resign from his part-time 
employment. The intention was for a stable income to be provided largely from pensions and savings. They were considering selling their holiday home to free up an 
additional £160,000 to help meet their income requirements.
At the transfer of OPS 2 their income requirements were recorded as £1,650 to meet 
regular expenditure, and this couldnt be met through the defined benefit schemes. 
They would have required to be heavily supported by drawing on their other savings. 
It provided a table of Mr W and his wifes objectives and needs. This recorded the 
personal pension was suitable in term of gaining control over the pension funds; 
provided maximum flexibility to draw income from a range of pension and non-
pension investments; enabled switching of income sources to minimise tax payable; 
didnt require a lump sum, and wanted to phase tax-free cash payments to support 
income; enabled annual income to vary and draw on additional lump sums where 
required, and allowed the balance of the pension funds to be passed on. 
Taking all the above into account, it thought the guaranteed income from the defined 
benefit schemes wouldnt have met these objectives. It thought its advice met the 
requirements for a higher income to meet Mr W and his wifes initial needs, and their 
retirement ambitions and stated objectives. It said this wasnt possible by staying in 
the OPSs and its advice to transfer from the OPSs to a personal pension was in Mr 
Ws best interests.
It said neither Mr W or his wife had ever expressed a wish to have a secure 
guaranteed fixed income. It thought it was critical to the complaint to clarify their 
future intentions in term of continuing with their flexible arrangements or buying an 
annuity.
It said Mr W signed declarations to confirm his understanding of the content of the 
report, risks, and possible consequences of transferring his OPSs.
The investigator considered the firms submissions, but she wasnt persuaded to change her 
view of the complaint. She said, in summary, that although the reasons given for Mr W being 
motivated to transfer to a personal pension were valid, it hadnt been shown there was an 
actual need in the circumstances of this case. There were other ways that Mr W and his wife 
could have obtained the income or lump sums they required, for example by drawing on the 
inheritance.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and largely 
for the same reasons. 
EBCL considers the transfers were in Mr Ws best interests because they met Mr W and his 
wifes particular needs and objectives at the time (as set out above). Whilst I accept that 
there were benefits in transferring, the transfer had to be considered in the context of Mr W 
and his wifes particular circumstances and objectives, and weighed up against all the 
advantages and disadvantages of staying in the OPSs.
The suitability report for OPS 1 said that Mr W was employed part-time receiving an income 
of £23,000, and had a joint income with his wife from the business of £12-15,000 which was sporadic. They had £230,000 invested from an inheritance. And they had a holiday home 
worth approximately £160,000. 
The suitability letter went onto say, under Your financial goals, needs and priorities:
Your financial priority at this time is to shape your retirement planning in a manner that will 
allow you to continue to work part-time and gradually ease into full retirement. In order to do 
this you would like an income that together with earnings from your employment .and 
income from ISAs and the collective investment held in [Mr Ws wifes name] will provide   
£2,000 to £3,000 per month net to meet expenditure and fund holidays.
The letter said that the prime objective was to arrange retirement benefits in a manner that 
would allow Mr W to meet the financial goals I have outlined above.
The report went onto say that OPS 1 would provide a pension of £3,896 at that time, or was 
estimated to provide a pension of approximately £9,000 at age 65.
Given Mr Ws part-time earnings, the income from the business and income payable from 
the investments (taking 5% withdrawals), Mr W and his wife were already well into the 
income bracket that they required. I accept that the income from the business may have 
been sporadic, and the income from the investments going forward dependent on the 
returns achieved on it. However these investments did provide the flexibility to withdraw 
sums as and when required. Mr W also had a personal pension. I understand its value was 
approximately £30,000 (rather than £60,000). But this provided flexibility to withdraw sums 
from it if and when needed.
The critical yields calculated showed the return required to match the benefits from
OPS1 at the schemes normal retirement age. The critical yield for OPS1 was 10.7% per 
year, or 9.25% if tax free cash was taken. 
As the investigator noted, the discount rate was 4.8%. The firm wasnt required to consider 
the discount rate. But I think it can be used to provide some context to the prospects of the 
transfer value, if invested, matching the benefits that would otherwise have been provided by 
the OPS at scheme retirement age. The critical yields werent just slightly above the discount 
rate, they were significantly above it. The firm itself acknowledged in its suitability letter that 
in regard to the critical yields:
This, in my opinion, is not an achievable return, based on your risk profile and term to 
scheme normal retirement.
By transferring Mr W was giving up largely guaranteed benefits, which would very likely be 
materially higher as he got closer to or at OPS1s retirement age, than those he would obtain 
by transferring to a personal pension.
I accept that there were a number of advantages to the transfer, but the main driver behind 
the recommendation appears to be the flexibility provided, and the ability to drawdown sums 
as and when Mr W and his wife needed them. However this flexibility came at a cost.
Whilst in OPS1, the transfer value was effectively expected to achieve a largely risk-free 
return equivalent to the critical yields I have described above. It was highly unlikely the funds 
would achieve the equivalent of the critical yield once transferred out of OPS1 and invested 
 as acknowledged by the firm. And as I have explained above, Mr W and his wife could 
have met their immediate additional income requirements (above the income received from 
the business and Mr Ws employment) from their existing provision. The other provision 
wasnt likely to achieve the same level of return as the critical yield. So if the income provided from the OPS wasnt sufficient to meet their additional needs at that time, it made 
financial sense to use those other resources first - at least for a period - rather than invest a 
transfer value that wouldnt achieve the equivalent to what it was effectively getting in the 
OPS. 
In my view the advice to transfer wasnt suitable given the alternative options available to 
provide income/lump sums at that time. I accept that there may have come a point where 
this wasnt sustainable, and Mr W had plans to pull back from work at some point. But Mr W 
could have taken benefits from the OPS sometime prior to the schemes retirement date if 
his income requirements couldnt continue to be met from his other financial provision. And 
effectively have obtained the equivalent of the critical yield on those benefits during that 
period without risk.
The suitability report for OPS 2 said that Mr W had retired from his part-time role. So by this 
point the household income had dropped. It said he and his wife required a net monthly 
income of £1,650 to meet expenditure. And around £8,000 a year to meet the cost of 
holidays. It also said Mr W and his wife were considering the sale of their holiday home 
which would free up further liquid assets to be invested to provide capital and income in 
retirement. The report went onto say that OPS 2 would provide a pension of £1,060 at that 
time, or was estimated to provide a pension of approximately £1,620 at age 65.
The critical yields calculated showed the return required to match the benefits from
OPS2 was 13.79% per year, or 11.17% if tax free cash was taken. 
As the investigator noted, the discount rate was 4.3%. As I said above, the firm wasnt 
required to consider the discount rate, but I think it can be used to provide some context to 
the prospects of the transfer value, if invested, matching the benefits that would otherwise 
have been provided by the OPS at scheme retirement age. Again, the critical yields werent 
just slightly above the discount rate. They were more than treble assuming no tax-free cash 
was taken. The adviser again stated in the suitability letter that in regard to the critical yields:
This, in my opinion, is not an achievable return, based on your balanced risk profile and 
term ...to scheme normal retirement (65).
For the same reasons as I outlined above for OPS 1, in my view it wasnt suitable advice to 
transfer out of OPS2 given the high critical yield and the alternative options available to 
provide income/lump sums at that point. As I explained, it was highly unlikely the transferred 
funds would achieve the equivalent of the critical yield once transferred out of the OPS and 
invested. So it made financial sense to use those other resources first if the income from the 
OPS wasnt sufficient to meet their needs at that point.
Mr W and his wifes business and other provision was largely covering their income 
requirements. I accept the business income may have been irregular. But they also had the 
personal pension that could supplement that (albeit it was modest, and only for a limited 
period). But they also planned to sell their holiday home which would have provided further 
liquid assets and flexibility. As I have said above, Mr W and his wife could have taken 
benefits from one or more of their OPSs when their income requirements couldnt continue 
to be met from their other financial provision.
Taking everything into account, in my view there were financially more favourable options 
available to Mr W and his wife to meet their immediate income and lump sum requirements. 
Like the investigator, I dont think there was any genuine need for them to transfer and take 
on the significant risks it presented, I think they could have met their objectives at that time 
by utilising their other existing financial provision.The firm has said that neither Mr W or his wife had ever expressed a wish to have a secure 
guaranteed fixed income. That may have been the case. But I dont think it was appropriate 
to advise them to take significant risks when there was no need to take those risks to meet 
their objectives  they could have been achieved through securing the guaranteed income 
provided by the OPS when required.
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited had a regulatory obligation to provide suitable advice. 
As I have said above, COBS 19.1.6 provided that the starting point here was to assume that 
a transfer wouldnt be suitable. And that EBCL should only then consider it to be suitable if it 
could clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests. 
For the reasons I have outlined above, in my view the advantages of remaining in the OPS 
far outweighed the benefits following the transfer, and I dont consider that the advice to 
transfer the OPS was suitable in all the circumstances of the case. Im not persuaded that 
the recommendation to transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W, as far as its possible, into the 
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice.  I think Mr W would 
have remained in his OPSs if suitable advice had been given. I therefore intend to order that 
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited calculates and pays compensation to Mr W on the 
following basis. 
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.  
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described
above. However, if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more
than £160,000, I recommend that Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited pays Mr W the
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Executive Benefit 
Consultancy Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I order Executive Benefit Consultancy Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W as 
I have outlined under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.     
David Ashley
Ombudsman