DRN-2135241
The complaint
Mr D complains that hed repeatedly told Vanquis Bank Limited that he was moving 
overseas. It said this was no problem, but then suddenly changed its mind and said the 
account had to be closed. Mr D said Vanquis shouldve told him this earlier.
What happened
Mr D said hed reduced the balance on his Vanquis credit card, and repeatedly told Vanquis 
that he was moving overseas. It had said this was no problem. So he did a large money 
transfer, but Vanquis is now saying he cant keep the account if hes living overseas, and he 
shouldnt have done the balance transfer. 
Vanquis said Mr Ds account shouldve closed when Mr D left the UK to spend a year 
overseas. And it said that it shouldve told Mr D this. To put things right, it would leave the 
account open until Mr D came back to the UK in November 2020. But if Mr D went back 
overseas after that, then it would have to close the account. It paid £100 in compensation to 
say sorry. It said he would need to repay the debt before the account could close, but it 
could set up a repayment plan for him to do that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Vanquis had 
accepted it made mistakes. But it had apologised, and paid Mr D £100 in compensation. It 
had also discussed options for Mr D to pay off the balance. Our investigator said that he 
couldnt ask Vanquis to waive half of Mr Ds outstanding debt, as that would be 
unreasonable. He thought that what Vanquis had already done was sufficient for the 
mistakes that were made and the service issues Mr D had experienced.
Mr D disagreed. He said that if Vanquis had told him sooner, he wouldnt have used £1,000 
of credit on the card. He still thought Vanquis should clear half the debt. He said he was now 
in debt to his card company, and he thought we werent being fair. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Vanquis has told us that dealing with customers overseas can cause problems, including 
with repayments. Mr D has already had one repayment go astray, so this is not an 
unreasonable point for Vanquis to make. It would usually close an account if someones 
moving overseas for a long time. 
But Vanquis appreciates that it didnt tell Mr D this. It knew he was overseas, and it allowed 
him to keep using his card, including making a large cash transfer in July. Theres no 
suggestion that Mr D acted improperly by making this transfer. Vanquis knew where he was, 
and it hadnt told him that there was any problem with that.
Mr D says he wouldnt have made this transfer if hed known the card was going to close. So 
he thinks Vanquis should write off half his debt, and hell pay back the rest. 
I dont think that would be fair. Thats partly because Mr D did spend this money, as our 
investigator said. But theres also another reason why I wouldnt ask Vanquis to do this, or to 
pay more than it has done already. Thats because we dont yet know whats going to 
happen with this card.
Vanquis has said that it wont close the card for now. And we dont yet know if its going to 
do that later this year. Mr D is coming back to the UK in November. If he decides to stay, 
then Vanquis has said the account wont close. Mr D will be in the same position hed have 
been in if Vanquis didnt object to him being overseas  hed have a debt on his credit card, 
and hed need to pay this money back in due course. 
If Mr D does decide to go back overseas, then Vanquis says it will want to close the account. 
And Mr D will need to pay the money back. Vanquis will give him two months notice of 
account closure, and it has said that it will set up a repayment plan to help Mr D pay the 
money back then. 
I dont yet know if Mr Ds account will close, and if so, whether this will cause him difficulties. 
I cant assume that both these things are going to happen. So I wont make any decision on 
this, and if Mr D runs into problems in future, he can complain then.
I think that what Vanquis has done, in paying Mr D £100 in compensation, and keeping his 
account open until November 2020, provides a fair and reasonable outcome on whats 
happened so far. So, although I know Mr D will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. If Mr D does decide to stay overseas, then he can discuss that with 
Vanquis at the time. I dont think it would be fair to either side for me to guess what might 
happen now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman