DRN-1728905
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Miss J took out in March
1996. It was sold in store.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss J disagreed
saying, in summary, that the PPI wasn't discussed with her and she didn't need the policy 
because she would have received sick pay from her employer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in  
deciding Miss Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Miss J aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI.  I cant be sure exactly what was discussed, so I've relied more on the paperwork that 
was completed at the time. I've seen a copy of the store card application form which Miss J 
signed. It included a separate section headed "Protection for your payments" and the box 
has been ticked to confirm that Miss J wanted the protection. I think the paperwork made it 
clear that PPI was optional and I think it would have been reasonable to expect Miss J to 
check what she was signing. The section about PPI was relatively brief, so I think she would 
have had time to do this even though she was in a store. So, overall, I think AXA made Miss 
J aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Miss J got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss J about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should have 
been. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Js circumstances at the time it doesn't look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she could have 
benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about 
these things would have affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time.I've taken into account what Miss J says about the pay she would have received from her 
employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to this - and until she returned to work 
or the account was repaid. And it covered her if she'd become unemployed. So it could have 
been a useful benefit, despite her existing arrangements.
Overall, I dont think Miss J has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman