DRN-3450398
The complaint
Miss N says Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform (TMP)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about high cost loans TMP provided to Miss N between July 2020 and 
February 2021 as follows:
loan taken out repaid monthly 
instalmentsamounthighest 
payment
1 26/06/2020 26/06/2020 3 500 £278.67
2 20/07/2020 11/08/2020 3 500 £278.67
3 19/08/2020 15/09/2020 3 750 £418.00
4 27/09/2020 19/11/2020 3 250 £139.33
5 02/12/2020 18/01/2021 3 250 £139.33
6 23/01/2021 15/02/2021 1 500 £647.00
7 28/02/2021 15/05/2021 3 250 £139.33
Miss N mainly said that her repeated borrowing with TMP caused financial problems and led 
to her having to borrow elsewhere. She felt that if TMP had done more checks it wouldve 
realised her financial situation and not loaned to her. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt that he hadnt seen enough to say that 
loans 1 and 2 shouldnt have been lent. 
But our adjudicator said TMP shouldnt have approved loans 3-7. He thought that 
proportionate checks wouldve revealed the full extent of Miss Ns borrowing with other 
short-term lenders and that TMP should have realised it was unlikely Miss N wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay loan 3 or any of the loans that followed.
TMP asked our adjudicator to reconsider his view about the loans he felt should be upheld. It 
mainly said that as Miss N had cancelled loans 1, 3 and 6 within the cooling-off period these 
should be treated as though they never existed, according to its understanding of regulatory 
guidance issued.
Our adjudicator explained that it appeared Miss N had still been charged for some of the 
cancelled loans so it was appropriate to consider these as part of his review of the 
complaint.
Nothing further was heard from TMP and the deadline for responses has now passed. 
Miss N is anxious for a decision as quickly as possible so the complaint comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term and irresponsible lending 
- including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
TMP needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss N could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that TMP should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. And the loan payments being affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
TMP has told us at the time of each application it gathered information on Miss Ns income, 
housing costs and financial commitments. It did electronic checks to verify her pay and also 
relied on statistical information to compare Miss Ns expenditure against national data 
showing typical spending for someone in the same situation. It also carried out credit checks 
which provided some information about her credit history and what she was paying to 
service her existing credit commitments.
TMPs affordability calculations showed that for all the loans, the repayments worked out as 
affordable for Miss N, leaving her with spare cash after paying for everything. Ive thought about each loan in turn.
As far as I can see, Miss N is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1 and 2 except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
But Ive kept in mind that these loans were part of Miss Ns borrowing relationship with TMP.  
It looks like she changed her mind almost immediately the first loan was approved  records 
show that loan 1 started and ended the same day (and it didnt cost Miss N anything). She 
then went on to repay loan 2 early  less than a month after taking it out. 
So, by the time Miss N applied for loan 3, her track record with TMP suggested I think that 
possibly she was finding it hard to manage her finances in a planned way  potentially an 
indication that she was facing money problems. 
I think that concern was supported by the fact that barely a week after repaying loan 2 early, 
she applied to borrow a loan that was 50% more than the amounts she had previously taken 
out. TMP credit checks had shown that Miss N had other credit outstanding when she took 
out these loans. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if the loan otherwise 
looked affordable. But I think TMP could see from its credit checks that the sum of her 
repayments on fixed term accounts had increased from £143 when she took out loan 1 to 
£200 by the time she was applying for loan 3. And her total outstanding balances on 
unsecured accounts had gone up more than £1,000 over the same time  a period of just 6 
weeks or so - from £3,299 to £4,379. 
I think this seemed to be at odds with TMPs understanding that Miss N had ample spare 
cash each month. Thinking about all of this information, I think our adjudicator was right to 
say that TMP shouldnt have provided loan 3 to Miss N without a more thorough check of her 
financial circumstances to see if the loan really was sustainably affordable for her.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Miss N has provided her bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what TMP was 
likely to have found out as I think these give a reasonable insight into her finances at the 
time. And had TMP looked in more depth at Miss Ns finances, it shouldve found out that 
Miss N was taking out and repaying loans with at least six other providers of high cost short 
term and unsecured loans. 
I think this suggested that shed become over-reliant on this sort of credit. And despite her 
account being boosted by around £2,000 paid in by other lenders the previous month, she 
was still incurring returned direct debits on her account from time to time. So by the time she 
applied for loan 3, it looked like she was no longer in control of her finances and she was 
already in serious financial difficulty. I think TMP should reasonably have concluded that it 
looked like Miss N was borrowing from one lender to repay other lenders and stuck in a 
cycle of debt and repeat borrowing.
So TMP shouldve realised that further lending was unsustainable.
I think thats borne out by the fact that the information available to me shows that Miss N 
continued to use multiple lenders to access credit. And had TMP carried out proportionate checking before providing loans 4,5,6 and 7, it 
shouldve realised that none of these loans was likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss N 
and not provided any of them.
Ive thought carefully about everything TMP has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But this doesnt change my mind about the outcome. 
It is unfair that Miss N paid extra for loans that were unfairly provided, so TMP needs to 
reimburse her accordingly so she doesnt lose out in money terms. 
In deciding what redress TMP should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss N at the point of loan 3, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss N in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss N would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to reduce TMPs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Putting things right
TMP shouldnt have given Miss N loans 3 - 7, so:
A TMP should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss N towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B TMP should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss N which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss N 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C TMP should pay Miss N the total of A plus B.D TMP should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Ns credit file in 
relation to loans 3 - 7.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TMP to deduct tax from this interest. TMP should give 
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax TMP has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ns complaint in part, and Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money 
Platform) must now put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman