DRN-4109213
The complaint
Mr M complains London General Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his motor 
warranty claim.
What happened
Mr M made a claim against his London General motor warranty. The insurer declined the 
claim based on the report of an engineer it had commissioned to inspect the car. London 
General said the cause of engine failure was wear and tear - something excluded by his 
policy terms. Mr M complained but London General didnt change its position,
After bringing his complaint to this service Mr M arranged his own engineers assessment of 
the car. The report disputes London Generals wear and tear position. Instead finding the 
failure to be mechanical failure. In March 2023 the insurer considered the report but 
continued to decline the claim. 
Our investigator was more persuaded by Mr Ms report. As a result he felt the damage was 
more likely a sudden and unforeseen failure, rather than wear and tear. So he recommended 
London General cover the repair of the vehicle, reimburse Mr M the cost of his engineer 
report and pay associated storage fees. Mr M accepted that outcome. As London General 
didn't, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers the cost of repair or replacement of any covered parts subject to 
sudden and unforeseen mechanical or electrical breakdown. However components aren't 
covered if they fail due to negligence or reach the end of their working life due to expected 
deterioration.
Ive considered London Generals engineer report, alongside the more recent comments 
from its senior engineer. Overall Im more persuaded by the detail and explanation given by 
Mr Ms engineers report. 
First Im satisfied the failed components are covered parts as set out by the policy terms. 
London Generals engineer report is based on a physical inspection of the vehicle. But its 
fairly limited in its assessment. It simply says due to the extent of damage and 
broken/missing pieces the exact cause of failure can't be confirmed. It states that however 
considering the mileage (around 73,000) the engineer believes the failure would be due to 
wear and tear. Nothing more is given to support this position. 
In response to our investigators assessment, and Mr Ms engineer report, a London General 
senior engineer provided some additional information. He said he favoured material fatigue. 
This was accompanied by a generic description of this concept, with no application to Mr Ms 
claim circumstances  other than reference to the mileage. No further supporting evidence, 
for example the expected lifetime of the components, was provided. 
Whilst Mr Ms engineer report is based on a desktop assessment of London Generals its far 
more persuasive. It concludes the failure was due to a mechanical fault  the oil pump 
breaking down, leading to further engine damage. It provides an explanation for this view. It 
rules out wear and tear as the cause  specifically stating the mileage isnt extreme 
considering the type of vehicle. 
Considering Mr Ms description of the breakdown, alongside his engineers report, Im 
persuaded its most likely there was a sudden and unforeseen mechanical or electrical 
breakdown  rather than the components reaching the end of their working life due to 
expected deterioration (or wear and tear). 
So I require London General to accept the loss as a sudden and unforeseen sudden 
mechanical or electrical breakdown. It hasnt provided any additional reason to decline the 
claim. So I require it to cover the cost of repairs in line with any policy limits and excess it 
wishes to apply. 
Mr Ms engineer report had a significant impact on the outcome of this complaint, so its fair 
for London General to reimburse him the cost. It will need to reimburse, on receipt of 
evidence of payment, the fee  plus simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Our investigator didnt think London General had acted unfairly when coming to its original 
decision as it was based on the available evidence at the time - its own engineers report. 
For that reason he didnt award compensation for distress or compensation. I agree with that 
assessment. 
I also support the investigators opinion that London General should have acted differently 
once presented with Mr Ms report in March 2023. If it had the car would likely have been 
repaired sooner that it will be  and Mr M wouldnt have incurred further storage fees being 
charged by his garage. To make up for that London General will need (on receipt of 
evidence of payment) to cover storage fees charged from March 2023 until the date of 
settlement of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require London General Insurance Company Limited to:
cover the cost of repairs to Mr Ms car  subject to any relevant policy limits or 
excess, 
reimburse him the cost of his engineers report  plus simple interest, at 8%, from the 
date he paid for the report to the date of settlement and 
reimburse him storage fees (on receipt of evidence hes paid them) for the period 
March 2023 to the date the claim is settled.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman