DRN-2282300
The complaint
Mr & Mrs H complain that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) gave them incorrect exchange rate 
information and made it difficult to open a Euro bank account.  
What happened
Mr & Mrs H says Citibank were unreasonable in asking for certified identification documents 
before they would open a Euro bank account given they were existing customers. Mr & Mrs 
H say that when they phoned Citibank to discuss the account opening, they were also given 
an indicative exchange rate which turned out to be substantially different to the actual rate 
they received when the proceeds were credited to their sterling bank account. They say if 
they had been told the correct exchange rate, they would have made alternative 
arrangements for the funds. 
Citibank accept the account opening took longer than it should, but the information needed 
was necessary. Citibank have agreed their  representative incorrectly quoted an exchange 
rate but even so  this was only an indication rate as this changes frequently throughout the 
day. Citibank have offered Mr & Mrs H £200 by way of compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience caused  and delays in opening the Euro bank account.
Mr& Mrs H wasnt happy with Citibanks response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. Although 
the investigator agreed the indicative exchange rate given by Citibank was incorrect at the 
time , she felt Mr H should have confirmed the exchange rate on the day of the transfer as 
these rates arent guaranteed . The investigator felt the compensation offered for the time it 
took to open  the Euro account and the inconvenience caused by the incorrect indicative rate 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr & Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Citibank have adequately compensated 
Mr& Mrs H for the delays in opening the Euro bank account. I have also looked at whether 
Citibank should compensate Mr & Mrs H further for difference in the exchange rate they 
received compared to the indicative rate they were given for  the Euro transfer to their 
sterling bank account. 
I can see that it would be frustrating and inconvenient for Mr & Mrs H to have to provide 
certified documentation to open a bank account with a bank they already had bank accounts 
with. Mr & Mrs H says that where they lived was remote and they had experienced  
broadband and phone signal problems  which  made it difficult for them to arrange for the 
documentation to be sent. I have considered this, but I cant see that Citibank can be held 
responsible for this and the requirement for this documentation is part of their account 
opening process to meet the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I can see that Citibank did take longer than expected to open the Euro bank account once 
the documentation had been received and they have acknowledged that. Given the 
documentation required to open the account wasnt received by Citibank until 12th August I 
am satisfied that it wasnt possible for the Euro bank account to have been opened in time 
for the receipt of the Euros if Mr & Mrs H had wanted to have paid the monies into that 
account instead of their sterling bank account.  
Citibank offered £100 for the inconvenience caused for the delay and I am satisfied this is a 
fair sum in the circumstances.
Looking at the complaint about the exchange rate difference I have listened to the  telephone 
conversations between Mr H and Citibank when he complained about the account opening 
process, which I have covered above. During the telephone conversation Mr H asks for the 
exchange rate for Euros  to Sterling and the operative says at the outset that the rate would 
be dependent on the exchange rate at the time of the transfer. The conversation centred 
around the account opening process and the discussion around the exchange rate comes 
across as secondary to this, I cant say that Mr H was looking at that time for an exchange 
rate to be booked at this point and by his own admission he had looked at rates elsewhere. 
So, I cant see that Citibank would have offered a fixed booked rate at the time or have any 
evidence to suggest that is what Mr H wanted. 
I can see that Citibank have accepted the rate given to Mr H at that time was incorrect , but it 
doesnt alter the fact Mr H was told this was dependant on the exchange rate at the time of 
the  transfer and this didnt happen until a few days later. What is important here is Citibank 
are not bound to give the same exchange rate as an indicative rate as after all this is what it 
is, indicative, even though it was incorrect at the time. I am satisfied Mr & Mrs H had the time 
to check the exchange rate between the phone conversation with Citibank and when the 
monies were sent. 
Mr H says there were reasons behind the time it took for the funds to have been sent, but 
Citibank could only apply the exchange rate at the time the funds were received.  This is also 
explained under terms and conditions 21.5 of their bank  account as the investigator has 
outlined in her view to Mr & Mrs H. 
Citibank have offered a further £100 in addition to the £100 offered for the delays opening 
the euro bank account , to reflect the inconvenience caused and I am satisfied that this is fair 
in the circumstances. 
While Mr& Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore 
of Citibank. I will leave it with Mr & Mrs H to contact Citibank if they wish to accept their offer.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman