DRN-2861588
The complaint
Mr K complained about the availability of his courtesy car under his motor policy with Soteria 
Insurance Limited (Soteria) and thought his policy was mis-sold.  
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident and made a claim under his policy. Soteria arranged for his 
car to be recovered and delivered to an approved repairer. Under the terms of his policy, Mr 
K was entitled to a courtesy car within 24 hours of the accident.
Mr K said he contacted Soteria several times to understand when he would receive his 
courtesy car. It emerged that the approved repairer was unable to provide a courtesy car 
within the 24 hours, so Soteria arranged for a hire car to be provided to Mr K on the Friday 
until the courtesy car was available, which was expected on the following Monday. There 
were delays in getting Mr Ks car to the repairers.
For some reason, the courtesy car didnt become available for another four days. However, 
Mr K said Soteria only approved and extended the hire car for one day at a time, so each 
day he was chased by the hire company for collection of the vehicle. Then, each day several 
calls had to be made to Soteria by Mr K or his relative to the repairers to understand when 
the courtesy car would be available and to gain assurance that the hire car would be re-hired 
for his use.
Soteria acknowledged some responsibility and paid Mr K £30 compensation, but Mr K didnt 
think this was enough for the inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr K also complained that he thought his policy wording was misleading and he didnt think it 
was fair an additional excess of £200 was charged if Mr K chose not to use a Soteria 
approved repairer.
Our investigator has partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Soteria had managed the 
situation with the courtesy car well, so he awarded Mr K a further £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience hed suffered. However, he didnt think the policy wording was mis-leading 
and didnt agree the additional excess was unfair. Soteria disagreed with the partial uphold, 
so the case has been referred an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will look at the three aspects of the complaint separately.
Additional excess
Mr K thinks its unreasonable for Soteria to charge an additional excess of £200 should he 
have chosen to proceed with a repairer not on Soterias approved list. I have checked the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the terms clearly set this out, so I think Mr K should 
reasonably have been aware of this when he took out his policy. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Soteria to encourage policyholders to use their approved 
repairers, as this provides them with assurance that the work completed is to their expected 
standards and cost. The additional payment is to mitigate the risk for Soteria in using a 
repairer unknown to them. This type of clause is not unusual in motor policies and I dont 
think it has disadvantaged Mr K. So, as I dont think Soteria has been unfair, I dont uphold 
this aspect of the complaint.
Policy Wording
Mr K felt his policy was mis-sold, because he thought the terms and conditions of his policy 
were misleading. The terms and conditions indicated Mr K was entitled to an enhanced 
courtesy car but Mr K thought said hed only had the benefit of a normal car. Soteria have 
said its terms and conditions are clear. I have checked the terms and conditions and I think 
they are clear, they state that the enhanced courtesy car provided will be a petrol or diesel 
engine of a similar size to your own car. I have checked the car Mr K did have access to 
and it is like his own car. As I dont think Soteria have misled Mr K on this point, I cant see 
that it has been unreasonable, therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Provision of Courtesy Car
Mr K complained that Soteria didnt manage the provision of his courtesy car effectively, 
which resulted in him using a hire car for a period of time. Soteria said there were issues 
relaying Mr Ks car to the repairers after the accident, but it said in the absence of the 
courtesy car it had arranged a suitable hire car for Mr K, so it said he didnt suffer any 
detriment. But, it did pay Mr K £30 compensation for the delay in his car reaching the 
repairers.
I have looked at Mr Ks complaint and his primary concern is the amount of time and effort 
he has lost to ensure his interim car requirements were met. Mr K has said he missed work 
for two days and he (or a relative) has made over 40 phone calls to Soteria or the repairers 
to ensure he had a courtesy car or hire car in place.
Soteria has challenged the time and effort, so I have examined what happened. Mr K has 
told our service about a previous experience, where he didnt have a good policy and his 
needs werent fully met, so he chose this policy because of the availability of a courtesy car. 
He has paid a premium for this, and so expected the service he paid for to be provided with 
minimum effort from him. Handling the repairs following an accident and the associated 
provision of a courtesy car is routine business, so I would expect Soterias process to 
accommodate this.
I cant validate what time Mr K had off work or the number of phone calls made. However, I 
can see hes had to intervene at least three or four separate times to ensure he was 
provided an interim car as Soteria only approved the hire car for one day at a time. Each 
intervention is likely to have needed several calls to relay facts and to chase either Soteria, 
the repairer or the hire firm to make sure he had a car for the next day. Due to his work, Mr K 
also said he needed to rely on a relative to help him make these calls. I dont know all the 
reasons why it was difficult to provide Mr K with an interim car. I know a courtesy car wasnt 
available to start with and the relay for the damaged car went to the wrong address creating 
further delay. 
However, I dont think the reason for the difficulties is important. As the underwriter, Soteria 
is responsible for the end to end process of managing the claim and everything that comes with it. Whilst I think some inconvenience should be expected with a claim, I am persuaded 
by Mr Ks account and I think there is evidence to support his claim that hes had to put in 
more time and effort than should be expected. Consequently, I dont think Soteria have been 
fair in only awarding £30 compensation. Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the complaint. I 
award a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience Mr K has suffered due to the 
additional time and effort he has had to put in, along with his relative to support Soterias 
handling of the claim and to cover the cost of the calls he has made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Soteria Insurance Limited to pay Mr K:
£200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience caused by Mr K having to get 
involved in arranging the provision of the interim car
Soteria Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman