DRN-3841308
The complaint
Ms E complains that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) misinformed her about an EBond 
product she took out with it in 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms E says that when she took out a 2-year Ebond in early 2022, the staff in her local branch 
told her that she could withdraw the cash at any time but would pay a penalty. But when she 
tried to withdraw some cash after a few months she was told this could only be done in 
exceptional circumstances which at that time didnt apply.
Skipton says that Ms E took out the Ebond online, where she would have had to agree to the 
terms and conditions which referred to the very restricted circumstances where withdrawals 
could be made.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the Ebond, which are three pages long and, in my 
view, not difficult to read. On the front page it states that you cant withdraw funds until the 
end of the fixed term. Under section 4.1, it says that you cant withdraw funds until the end of 
the bond term other than in cases of death, terminal illness, or bankruptcy. 
Whilst I dont doubt Ms Es honest recollections of her in branch discussion, I think its more 
likely than not that the Skipton staff would be familiar with the Ebond terms and conditions, 
as its a well-known product and they were promoting it at the time. So, I think its more likely 
than not that Ms Es memory is mistaken, and she wasnt given incorrect information by 
Skipton.
In addition, Skipton has provided evidence that Ms E took the Ebond out online. In this 
process she was required to click a box to say shed read and accepted the terms and 
conditions before she could complete the process and open the account. So, I think its more 
likely than not that she did read the terms and conditions which contained the information 
about withdrawals as shown above.
So, although I know Ms E will be disappointed, I dont think Skipton did anything wrong in 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman