DRN-1232318
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that UK Insurance Limited unreasonably declined their legal 
expenses claim.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs W entered into a contract to purchase a property in April 2017. Since moving in, 
they've had a number of issues with their neighbour. The neighbour makes a lot of noise 
very early each morning, and appears to be running a business from his garage, which 
means he receives deliveries throughout the day.
Mr and Mrs W reported the matter to their local council, but the issue remains unresolved. 
Mr and Mrs W considered that the seller of their property must have known about the 
neighbour's activities when he sold it to them. They felt they wouldn't have agreed to 
purchase the property if they'd known about the noise issues. So, they asked UK I whether 
their policy would cover them to start a legal action against the seller for misrepresentation. 
UK I declined the claim, citing a term in Mr and Mrs W's policy for claims arising from 
contracts entered into before cover started. It highlighted that Mr and Mrs W's current policy 
hadn't started until 13 May 2018, over a year after they made the contract with the seller. But 
it said it would consider a claim for nuisance against the neighbour if one was made. 
Mr and Mrs W complained as they didn't think this was fair. They said they weren't aware of 
the neighbour's activities until their policy with UK I had started. They said they'd switched to 
UK I because it quoted a cheaper price than their previous insurer at renewal. And they 
hadn't realised switching insurers would create a gap in their cover. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said the wording of the exclusion was clear, 
and the relevant date was the date the contract was made, not the date Mr and Mrs W 
became aware they might need to take legal action. He said the claim may be covered under 
Mr and Mrs W's previous policy. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with these findings and asked for 
the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr and Mrs W are covered for certain contract disputes under their policy. But there is a 
specific exclusion for 'claims arising from, or relating to, contracts you entered into before 
your cover started.'  
We don't think terms like this are inherently unfair, so long as they're clearly worded in the 
policy, and in this instance I think the wording was clear. Mr and Mrs W accept that the contract they want to dispute was made before their policy started. So, even if I accepted the 
dispute didn't arise until later, I think UK I can still rely on the exclusion to decline 
their claim. 
I'm pleased to see however that UK I has highlighted to Mr and Mrs W that they're also 
covered for legal nuisance should they decide to make a claim against their neighbour.  
Mr and Mrs W say they're being treated unfairly for switching insurers. As there are different 
types of policies on the market, each with different terms and conditions, gaps can arise 
where a customer switches from one type of policy to another. But depending on the 
circumstances, and the terms of each policy, we wouldn't usually find it fair for a claim to fall 
between two stools if there was no break in cover. 
Mr and Mrs W haven't furnished us with the details of their previous policy, so I can only 
determine whether it was fair for UK I to decline the claim. And given that its policy clearly 
excludes claims arising from contracts made before cover started, I think it was. 
Mr and Mrs W may therefore want to consider contacting the insurer of the policy that was in 
force when the contract was made to see if it's willing to consider the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs W's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020. 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman