DRN-3051147
The complaint
Mr T complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (HIC) wont pay the full cost of 
repairs under a home insurance claim.
Most of Mr Ts correspondence has been with the insurance intermediary, LV, via his broker. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to HIC includes LV.
What happened
Mr T had an LV home insurance policy, underwritten by HIC. In June 2020, there was a leak 
in his kitchen from pipes behind his washing machine. He made a claim for damage through 
his insurance broker. As part of his claim, he sent HIC quotes for repairs totalling £8,775:
Building & plumbing works £6,575
Electrics (including boiler supply) £1,450
Paintwork & labour £780
HIC sent its supplier (referred to in this decision as D) to inspect the damage. Following Ds 
inspection, HIC made a cash offer of £2,068.94 (less Mr Ts £250 excess) to settle the claim. 
When Mr T questioned this, HIC sent him Ds list of repairs.
Mr T told HIC that D hadnt included work his contractors said needed to be carried out, and 
the total cost of repairs was a lot more than HICs offer. He wants HIC to pay for the repairs 
in full.
HIC said much of the work quoted by Mr T wasnt needed. It increased its settlement offer by 
£360 to allow for drying but didnt agree with the main part of Mr Ts complaint. Separately, 
it apologised to Mr T for the delay dealing with his claim and offered him £200 for this. Mr T 
remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He found that the 
repairs set out by Mr Ts contractors went further than putting Mr Ts kitchen back into the 
condition it was before the leak. Our investigator was satisfied that HICs proposed work was 
appropriate and its settlement offer was fair.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Page 12 of Mr Ts policy booklet sets out how HIC will settle a claim. This will either be:
Arranging the repairs by one of its suppliers;
Paying the cost of repair; or
Making a cash payment.
It appears that Mr T was unhappy with the repairs proposed by D and questioned Ds 
qualifications, so he didnt want D to carry out the work. As such, HIC agreed to make a cash 
payment to him, as allowed under the policy terms. However, Mr Ts own quote was 
significantly higher than HICs offer. So Ive considered whether HICs offer was fair.
The main reason for the difference in quotes is the work proposed by Mr Ts contractors 
greatly exceeds the work proposed by D. The additional work proposed by Mr Ts 
contractors is, in summary:
Raise the kitchen work surface to 1.2m.
Replace tiling, plasterboard, and electric sockets based on the new work surface 
height.
Remove and reinstall the boiler.
Replace the electrical fittings and wiring to a water resistant IP rating.
Mr T says this work is necessary because of the leak. HIC, on advice from D, says it isnt.
Home insurance policies aim to put the policyholder back into the position they were in just 
before the damage happened (or as close as possible). That means HIC needs to repair the 
damage directly caused by the leak; it doesnt need to do anything more. 
HICs offer can be broken down as follows:
Building & plumbing works £1,994
Electrics (including boiler supply) £142.29
Paintwork & labour £292.65
Ive reviewed the quotes and compared Ds schedule of work against what Mr T wants done. 
Ive also considered both parties comments about these differences. Having done so, I think 
the work proposed by Mr T goes much further than simply repairing the damage caused by 
the leak, known in insurance as betterment.
The photos sent to us by Mr T show the current kitchen work surface is about 0.9m high. Mr 
T says D told him it needed to be raised to 1.2m. However, HICs internal notes says this 
isnt necessary: [D] feels that 1.2 meters high of plasterboard replacement is excessive as 
the damage is limited to under the counter behind the washing machine and there is no 
evidence of any damage to the tiles. I found no evidence in Mr Ts videos, photos, or other 
submissions that the leak caused such extensive water damage that would mean the work 
surface had to be raised by 30cm. 
Much of the additional work proposed by Mr Ts contractors relates to the higher work 
surface. For example, removing and reinstalling the boiler is only necessary if this is raised. 
Similarly, part of the tiling work, replacement plasterboard, and new wall sockets are also 
only necessary if the work surface is raised. 
Mr T accepts that his existing wiring wasnt IP rated, but believes the new wiring needs to be 
based on the advice of his contractor. That may be true but, under the policy terms, HIC 
doesnt have to pay for this improvement. And I dont think it needs to.
In effect, I think Mr T is asking for repairs that werent a result of the original leak. This would 
be betterment. So I dont think its fair to ask HIC to cover the cost of this. For the reasons 
above, Im satisfied that HICs settlement offer of £2,428.94, less Mr Ts £250 excess, is fair.Finally, HIC apologised for delays in replying to emails from Mr Ts broker in 
November/December 2020 and offered him £200 for this. In the circumstances, I think this is 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman