DRN-1902261
The complaint
Ms P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Blue Motor, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Blue Motor, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Ms P. The car here 
was around ten years old and had completed about 60,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if it there were faults with the engine that prevented it being 
driven within the first couple of weeks of ownership.
The relevant legislation suggests that if a fault occurs in the first six months of ownership it is 
considered to be likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply unless the 
business can prove otherwise.
Here, Im persuaded there was a fault with the car that was identified in the first couple of 
weeks. I say that because the report produced by the roadside rescue service, only 11 days 
after Ms P took receipt of the car, suggests there were fault codes related to cylinders two 
and four and subsequent visits to an independent garage and the franchised dealership 
diagnosed a similar problem requiring work to the injectors.
Ms P asked the business to allow her to reject the car within the first 30 days. The relevant 
legislation says that in those circumstances the business dont need to be given an 
opportunity to repair the car. I understand that Ms P allowed them to repair it, but I dont 
think its likely she would have done that if the business had given her the opportunity to 
reject the car. And I dont think its fair to suggest Ms P should have been sufficiently 
conversant with the legislation to understand her rights of rejection. 
So, the business should now allow Ms P to reject the vehicle.
Putting things right
Blue Motor will need to collect the car from Ms P, and theyll need to refund any deposit she 
paid with interest as shes been deprived of that money whilst funding an unsatisfactory car.
Ms P was unable to drive the car from July 2019 to December 2019 when it was fixed for 
her. Blue Motor should therefore refund any finance instalments paid by Ms P in that period 
as she had no use of the car. 
I understand that Ms P has experienced further breakdowns of the car but Im not asking 
Blue Motor to refund any further instalments, or the repair costs, as Ive not seen evidence 
those faults were present at the point the car was supplied, and I think the nature of the 
faults, and the fact theyve only happened recently, suggests they are more likely to be 
related to wear and tear.
Ms P has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car for 
additional checks as Blue Motor didnt accept the original diagnosis. I think there was 
enough information for the business to allow a rejection earlier. In those circumstances, I 
think the business should pay Ms P £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Ms P;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
refund finance instalments paid from, and including, July to December 2019 in 
respect of lack of use of the car;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ps credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman