DRN-2331566
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1986. In 1998, they took out a PPI policy to 
protect their monthly mortgage payments. They applied for the PPI during a meeting with 
Halifax. Halifaxs records show that Mr and Mrs F repaid their mortgage the following year.
Both the mortgage and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Fs joint names. The PPI policy covered 
them for accident, sickness and unemployment. The monthly benefit would have covered 
Mr and Mrs Fs monthly mortgage payments. It was split between Mr and Mrs F so that if 
either of them had made a successful claim on the policy, it would have paid a proportion of 
the monthly benefit. And it would have done this for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F say there was no mention of PPI during their meeting with Halifax, and 
they definitely wouldnt have asked for it. They add that theyve always adamantly 
refused this type of policy. And they believe the policy was just added to their mortgage 
without their knowledge or consent.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs F have said. But theyd already had the mortgage for 
over 12 years when they took out the PPI. So I think it would have been clear to them 
that they didnt need to have PPI to have the mortgage. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Fs signed application form for the PPI. It set out clearly 
how much monthly benefit they required, and how much it would cost each month. I think 
its likely that the form was completed after a discussion with the adviser about how 
much cover Mr and Mrs F wanted. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F decided to take 
out the PPI knowing that they had a choice.
Mr and Mrs F say Halifax didnt give them advice about the PPI or recommend it to them. 
But Halifax says a recommendation would have been made. And based on what we 
know about the way these policies were sold in branch at the time, I think thats likely to 
be right. This is to Mr and Mrs Fs advantage when it comes to considering their 
complaint, as it means Halifax had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for 
them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F have told us theyd each have been entitled to six 
months full pay, followed by six months half pay from their employers if theyd been off 
sick. But the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Thats longer than either Mr or Mrs F would have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if theyd made a 
successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in addition 
to any payments Mr and Mrs F received form their employers. So they could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs F say their jobs were extremely stable and desirable. But 
insurance is designed to protect against the unexpected. And I dont think Mr and Mrs F 
could have guaranteed that their jobs would continue to be stable going forward. And if 
their situation changed, they had the PPI to fall back on.
Mr and Mrs F say their family would have helped them financially if necessary. But 
circumstances can change, and I cant be sure Mr and Mrs Fs family would have been in 
a position to help out if the need had arisen. 
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Fs house, and the consequences of not keeping 
up with their mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI could have been useful for them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F chose to take 
out the PPI. So it looks as if they wanted that type of cover, even if theyve 
understandably forgotten this, so many years later.
Ive borne in mind that Mr Fs told us hed suffered from a common medical condition 
since childhood. He said it had sometimes led to infections which had meant he needed 
two or three weeks off work once every two or three years. But to make a claim for 
sickness under the policy, Mr F would have needed to be off work for more than 30 
days. Based on what hes told us about his condition, and how it was treated, Im not 
convinced hed have thought it was likely that hed be off work for that long as a result of 
his long-term condition. And he could potentially have claimed successfully if hed been 
off sick with any condition or illness that didnt result from his existing condition. 
So I dont think its likely, on balance, that better information about the provisions on 
existing medical conditions would have made a difference to Mr Fs decision to take out 
the cover. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, Mr and Mrs F 
werent affected by any of the policys other main exclusions or limitations.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the PPI application form. So Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs F would have known how much theyd need to pay for it. And as they were 
paying for the policy monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with no further 
cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.Taking everything into account, I dont think better information would have put Mr and 
Mrs F off taking out the PPI. So I dont find that they lost out as a result of anything 
Halifax many have done wrong. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman