DRN-3939055
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to accept 
liability when it received a claim from a third party insurer (TPI) against Mr Ws car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr W bought a car insurance policy with Advantage. Advantage received a claim from a TPI 
claiming Mr Ws car had hit their insureds car while parked and drove off. 
Mr W said he didnt hit the car and said the TPIs claim was wrong. 
Advantage received evidence from the TPI which persuaded it to accept liability on Mr Ws 
behalf, which the policy entitles Advantage to do. 
Mr W was very unhappy about this and complained to Advantage. He said photos show 
damage to his car - which was claimed to have been caused when he collided with the TPI 
car - was already there before the incident. 
Our Investigator didnt; recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Advantage 
had reached its decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
Mr W didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ws policy with Advantage has a very common term which Ive seen in most - if not all car 
insurance policies. This term allows Advantage to settle a claim on what it deems to be the 
best terms possible. This means Advantage might make a decision Mr W disagrees with, but 
the policy allows Advantage to do it. 
In this case, an independent witness has provided a statement and confirmed they are 
prepared to go to court on behalf of the TPI. The witness says they saw Mr Ws car collide 
with the TPIs car and provided details of Mr Ws registration plate. 
Mr W was on the road on the day of the incident but denies making contact with another car.  
Mr W provide photos of his car showing damage with date information attached to them. He 
says these show damage to his car was there before the incident being claimed for. 
Advantage instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Ws car following receipt of the photos. The 
engineer identified impact damage to Mr Ws car - this damage was consistent with contact 
damage to the TPI car. So although Advantage considered the photos provided by Mr W, it 
didnt change its decision. 
I think Advantage reached its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim rather than 
proceed to court with the associated risks and costs involved in a fair way. In their view, and 
based on its regular dealings with claims, the outcome was unlikely to be in their favour. This 
doesnt mean Advantage doesnt believe Mr W. Its a matter of how successfully it could 
defend the matter. I think Advantage reasonably placed more weight on the witness 
statement.
I understand Mr W is very upset about Advantages decision. And I appreciate that this 
meant there was a negative impact on Mr Ws No Claims Discount (NCD). But I think 
Advantage treated Mr W fairly and as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances. I think it decided how to settle the claim based on the information available 
and in line with the policy. So this means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman