DRN-2344458
The complaint
Mr W complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd failed to 
undertake appropriate due diligence before it recommended an investment product to him.
What happened
The complaint Mr W has made is regarding the actions of an appointed representative of 
Quilter (formerly known as Intrinsic). So Mr W hasnt actually had any direct dealings with 
Quilter before he made his complaint. But it is Quilter that is responsible for the actions of 
the appointed representative. And, for ease, I will generally refer to Quilter as the business 
Mr W dealt with throughout this decision.
Mr W held pension savings in a self-invested pension plan (SIPP). In 2012 he engaged 
Quilter to provide him with advice on the investment of those pension assets. As part of that 
advice process Quilter assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk, and concluded that it was that of a 
moderate investor. But it also noted that Mr W thought his pension savings were likely to 
exceed the lifetime allowance, and so since that would mean he had little to gain from 
significant investment growth, he asked Quilter to introduce lower risk investments for 
around two thirds of the pension savings in his SIPP.
In relation to those lower risk investments Quilter advised Mr W to place his pension savings 
into four separate structured deposit plans. It has told us that these plans were chosen to 
maximise the spread of indices that would be used to determine the returns on those 
investments, and to ensure that Mr W had protection from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) should any of the investment counterparties fail. All of the 
investments guaranteed to return the capital that had been invested at the end of the terms.
Three of the funds Quilter recommended have shown investment returns ranging from 15% 
to 40%. However one fund has only returned the capital that Mr W invested six years before. 
Mr W complains that this failure was due to the design of the fund, and that if Quilter had 
undertaken sufficient due diligence before it made its recommendation, that flaw would have 
been identified. As a result he says he has lost out on potential investment growth.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
recommendation Quilter had made had been in line with the objectives it agreed with Mr W 
at the time. And she didnt think that Quilter should have predicted that the investment 
wouldnt provide Mr W with any investment returns due to the nature of the fund. So she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Quilter. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr W has been very specific about his complaint points. He says that his complaint isnt so 
much about the performance of the investment, but about the steps that Quilter took to 
investigate that investment before it was recommended to him.
But looking at the complaint in that way does present me with some difficulties. As I have 
explained above, my function in deciding this complaint is not one of a regulator. Instead 
I am looking to determine whether the business did something wrong, and most importantly 
whether that has caused Mr W to lose out. So naturally my focus will tend towards the 
outputs of an advice process, rather than the steps that were taken leading up to the advice 
being given.
At this stage I think it is important to acknowledge that Mr W is understandably disappointed 
with the investment performance of one of the funds Quilter recommended. And I can see 
that he has strong views that investment performance was as a direct result of the way the 
fund was designed. I dont think that it is appropriate for me to form any view, as part of my 
assessment of this complaint, about the design of the fund and whether it was likely to 
produce the targeted investment returns. But I should, of course, consider whether it was 
reasonable for Quilter to recommend that investment to Mr W in 2012.
It seems to me that, for this part of Mr Ws pension savings, the over-riding objective was to 
protect the capital that was being invested. So Quilter appears to have gone to great lengths 
to ensure that the FSCS would provide cover for as much of the investment as possible. It 
appears to have done that by spreading the investments across a number of different 
counterparties, maximising the compensation that would be payable by the FSCS should a 
counterparty fail.
And it also seems that Quilter considered the spread of Mr Ws investments across the 
various structured deposit products. It says that meant each fund relied on different indices 
when determining the investment performance. That would mean that a failure in one fund 
wouldnt necessarily mean the other investments suffered too. So Im not entirely surprised 
that some of the funds in which Mr Ws pension savings were invested have performed 
better than others. Overall Quilter appears to have met Mr Ws primary objective of 
protecting his capital, and he has received a reasonable return across his portfolio.Different advisors will have different ways of conducting due diligence on the investments 
they are recommending. Some will perform that work themselves, as part of an in-house 
research function. Others will rely on third parties to conduct that work on their behalf. And 
ultimately all will need to rely on the information being provided by the funds themselves 
setting out the investment objectives and approach.
I have seen that Quilter did use third parties to help identify the key aspects of funds and 
assess their suitability to the investment objectives it had agreed with Mr W. And, quite 
reasonably, it relied to some degree on the information produced by the fund itself. As I said 
earlier it isnt appropriate for me, in this decision, to look at the design of the fund  that is 
something that the regulator would investigate should it have concerns that the information 
produced by the fund was inaccurate or misleading.
Ultimately it would be impossible for an advisor to accurately predict whether or not an 
investment fund will make a return on the capital that has been invested in it. All it can do is 
recommend funds that meet the investment objectives of the consumer whether in terms of 
the likely return, the risk being taken, or any number of other factors.
I have considered that as part of its discussions with Mr W, Quilter described the investment 
as being all upside and no downside. Mr W considers that was effectively a promise that 
the investment would make a return above the capital that he invested. But I dont agree. 
Mr W was a relatively experienced investor, and would be well aware that returns could not 
be guaranteed. I think the comment Quilter made was regarding the protection that the 
FSCS offered to the investment  removing the likelihood that Mr W might lose money. 
I think that, taken in that context, the reference to upside was relating to the potential for 
returns rather than any guarantee.
So in summary I havent seen anything that would make me think that Mr W has lost out as a 
result of any failure by Quilter to effectively research the investments it was recommending 
to him. I think the recommended investments matched Mr Ws agreed investment objectives, 
both in terms of growth and security of capital. I dont think Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman