DRN-3517049
The complaint
Mr K complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of his claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
All references to Amtrust include its agents.
What happened
Mr K is a member of the armed services. He made a claim on his legal expenses policy after 
he was notified of an investigation against him for breach of a branch of the militarys 
standing orders. He submitted his claim on 7 October 2020. Amtrust requested further 
information from him on 19 October 2020 which he provided the same day. He chased 
Amtrust for a decision on 30 October 2020 and at this time stressed the urgency as he had 
an interview to discuss the allegation against him on 5 November 2020. And he wished to 
have legal representation at this interview.
Mr K was informed he wasnt covered on 2 November 2020. He disputed this saying that he 
was:
the subject of a Service Police Investigation which could end in Court Martial which is a court 
of criminal jurisdiction. Secondly, this matter clearly has arisen out of my work as an 
employee: the investigation is being conducted under the Armed Forces Act 2006 as a 
consequence of a matter that arose during the course of the performance of my duties as an 
[a member of the Armed Service].
Amtrust sent him another email on 3 November 2020 and said he only had cover under the 
legal defence section for employment related issues. Mr K wasnt sure if this meant he was 
covered or not. It later confirmed that he wasnt covered for his interview.
Mr Ks interview went ahead on 5 November 2020 with his solicitor accompanying him. 
Following this it was decided that Mr K would not be subject to court martial.
When Mr K complained to Amtrust about the handling of his claim. Amtrust said it would look 
at whether Mr K was covered if he was subject to a court martial, but it was satisfied that he 
wasnt covered for any legal work during the investigation stage.
In her first view the investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that 
Mr K wasnt covered because he hadnt been charged with a criminal offence. She agreed 
that Amtrust gave incorrect information regarding the reason the claim was being declined 
but she thought this was quickly rectified and the rectification occurred two days before his 
interview date. She therefore didnt consider that a compensation payment was warranted in 
this case.
Mr K disagreed. He said he now understands he wasnt covered but he said by Amtrust not 
giving him the correct claim decision until 3 November, he unnecessarily incurred solicitors 
costs. This was because he couldve considered his options regarding legal representation 
had he known earlier the costs wouldnt be covered.
The investigator issued a second view and said having considered the timeline of Mr Ks 
claim, she could see Mr K shouldve had a claims decision by 26 October 2020. She noted 
that between 26 October 2020 and 2 November 2020 Mr Ks solicitor had carried out 4.1 
hours of work. So, she recommended that Amtrust should pay Mr K the legal costs he 
incurred between those dates to recognise the delay in reaching a claims decision. 
Mr K responded to the investigators view to say that he contacted Amtrust on 7 October 
2020 so he should have had a response by 14 October and between 14 October and 2 
November his solicitor carried out 4.6 hours of work.
The investigator responded to Mr K to say that whilst he submitted his claim on 7 October 
Amtrust requested further information from him on 19 October which he gave on the same 
day. So, that's why she said from 26 October as that's 5 working days from 19 October. But 
she could see Mr Ks point that Amtrust was 2 or 3 days late in asking for the information on 
19 October so potentially she could ask for the date to be moved forward from 26 October 
2020 by a few days.
Amtrust didnt accept the investigators view. It said whilst it accepts there was a delay in 
notifying Mr K of the claims decision it is satisfied that he was aware that the costs 
associated with the police interview would not be covered. It said in his call with its First 
Response Unit on 30 October 2020, Mr K acknowledged that his claim had not yet been 
accepted and that 'you've said implicitly that no invoices will be accepted before you've 
approved the claim'. It says the policy wording also makes this clear. In the subsequent call 
with the claim handler on 3 November 2020 it was made clear that any legal costs incurred 
at the police interview would not be covered. This was clarified in the follow-up email sent 
following that call. It also says we should consider whether Mr K sought to mitigate his 
losses in arranging for legal representation at the police interview on 5 November 2020 by 
taking advantage of free/subsidised legal support from his employer. It says it does not 
consider that Mr K unnecessarily incurred solicitors costs because of any delay in declining 
his claim. It was always the case that the costs for representation at interview were not 
covered under the policy as he was not subject to a criminal prosecution.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2022. In it I said:
Mr K has accepted he wasnt covered for the advice relating to the interview on 5 November 
2020. I agree. He says, however, that he consulted his own solicitor because he thought he 
was entitled to do so under the terms of the policy. Even after he had been told he wasnt 
covered he continued with his legal representation. He says: I considered directing my 
solicitor not to attend the police interview in order to cut my legal bill. Ultimately, I decided 
that I would harm my case if I took this drastic step. Furthermore, I considered that the 
muddled and factually inaccurate assessments that I had so far received from [Amtrust] to 
be evidence that my claim had yet to reach the level in the company where a competent and 
clear assessment could be made. I could not believe that any coherent legal defence would 
not include the presence of a legal representative at a police interview, and therefore I 
reasonably concluded that the Legal Defence element of my Armed Forces Family Legal 
policy would include such provision.
Having read the correspondence from Mr K he strikes me as an intelligent and thoughtful 
man who whilst not a legal expert is likely to have understood any clearly written insurance
policy if he read it carefully.
Ive looked at the policy. It says:If You make a valid claim under this insurance, We will appoint Our panel solicitors, or their 
agents, to handle Your case. You are not covered for any other legal representatives fees 
unless court proceedings are issued or a Conflict of Interest arises. Where, following the 
start of court proceedings or a Conflict of Interest arising, You want to use a legal 
representative of Your own choice You will be responsible for any Advisers Costs in 
Excess of Our standard Advisers Costs.
It goes on to say the policy covers: Your legal rights in the following circumstances arising 
out of Your work as an employee: In a prosecution brought against You in a Court of 
criminal jurisdiction 
It excludes cover: For Advisers Costs where You are entitled to a grant of legal aid from 
the Legal Services Commission, or where funding is available from another public body, a 
trade union, employer or any other insurance policy.
And it also excludes cover Following an allegation of intentional violence or dishonesty. 
From what I have seen so far it seems to me that both exclusions may apply. Mr K was sent 
an email asking if he required duty legal so this suggests he should have known that legal 
aid was available to him. The allegation against him  misuse of Ministry of Defence property 
for a personal purpose - also seems to be an allegation involving a degree of dishonesty. I 
think if Mr K had looked at his policy carefully, he would have realised he wasnt covered 
based on the exclusions alone.
From what I can see Mr Ks commanding officer spoke to him about the allegation on 30 
September 2020. Mr K contacted his solicitor on 6 October 2020 and insurer on 7 October 
2020. After instructing his solicitor, his solicitor then carried out several hours work in the 
week that followed. Even when he was told he wasnt covered he continued to instruct his 
solicitor to act.
Overall, I think Mr K decided to have his own legal representation and hoped that his 
insurance would cover his costs but accepted that this might not be the case. I asked the 
investigator to put this to Mr K and he disputes this. He has told this service that in 2021 he 
was again required to attend a Royal Military Police interview as a consequence of an 
investigation into his conduct. He says understanding the precise limits of his Legal 
Insurance policy he did not instruct a privately arranged legal representative beforehand. 
Instead, he made use of the RMP offer to notify a Duty Solicitor. He received legal 
representation from a solicitor who was operating throughout under the Legal Aid system. 
Mr Ks explanation of later events demonstrates that his claim wouldnt have been covered in 
any event because it would have been excluded because he was entitled to legal aid. The 
fact that he didnt instruct a private solicitor the second time he was investigated doesnt 
persuade me that he wouldnt have done so the first time if hed known he would have to pay 
himself. It isnt unusual for someone to want more support the first time they experience an 
investigation of this nature.
In these circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask Amtrust to pay his costs. I do, 
however, think that Amtrust dealt with his claim poorly and should have been able to provide 
him with an answer much more quickly particularly as the policy was designed for service 
personnel and any complexity in the claim relates to an understanding of what a court 
martial is or isnt. I think in these circumstances it would be reasonable to require it to pay 
him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr K didnt accept my provisional decision. He thinks Amtrust should have told him at the 
outset, that he did not need to pay for legal representation at the interview because all legal 
representation at police interview is funded by the state through Legal Aid. Amtrust should 
have added that he had cover for legal representation at court martial, if the case progressed 
that far, because his policy covered prosecution in courts of legal jurisdiction. Amtrust did 
none of that. 
He doesnt accept the view that he would have appointed his own solicitor regardless. He 
says he should have been given the opportunity to make a decision based upon the facts 
regarding the options available, and that information should have come from Amtrust. 
Amtrust should take responsibility for their failure to give him accurate and timely advice and 
the financial consequences for him.
Amtrust has accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Amtrust should have told him sooner that he wouldnt be covered for his legal 
fees for the interview and the work leading up to it. I need to consider the impact of this 
failure. And I am not persuaded  just as I wasnt in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons - that if he had been told he wasnt covered he would have not instructed his 
solicitor. I think Mr K decided to have his own legal representation and hoped that his 
insurance would cover his costs but accepted that this might not be the case. That being the 
case, there were no financial consequences of the delay because I think the delay didnt 
result in a solicitor being asked to do work that but for the delay wouldnt have happened. 
So, the compensation I need to look to award should reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay. I remain of the view that £200 is fair for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Putting things right
To put things right I will order Amtrust to pay Mr K £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr K £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman