DRN-2495288
The complaint
Mr W complains that when he took an increase option on his whole of life policy Scottish 
Widows Limited set up a new policy rather than increasing his existing one.
What happened
Mr W took out a whole of life policy in 1979. A feature of the policy was that it had an 
increase option which Mr W took advantage of in1984.
It wasnt until recently that Mr W discovered the increase option exercised meant he had a 
separate policy with a different maturity date than the original. 
Scottish Widows said that a separate policy for the increase option was set up in 1984 and 
was given a different policy number. It has different options to the original policy so when, in 
early 1989, Mr W had the original policy converted to a with profits endowment the increase 
option remained as a stand alone whole of life policy. Scottish Widows felt the documents 
were clear about how the policies worked but Mr W disagreed so brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought Scottish Widows provided 
clear information about the two different policies both in the original documentation and in 
correspondence since then. Mr W disagreed asking for his case to be looked at again and 
provided reasons why he thought our investigator had missed the point of his complaint. Our 
investigator considered what Mr W said and still thought that Scottish Widows had acted 
fairly. Mr W remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided a lot of information about his complaint. If I dont mention a particular 
aspect, or answer a particular query, its not because I havent considered it; I can assure 
Mr W that I have. Ive condensed the complaint and what happened which reflects the 
informal nature of our service. Im confident that I understand Mr Ws complaint, which to use 
his own words, is that the two policies are very much linked and should mature together as 
with profits endowments. 
I think its important to start by saying that Scottish Widows are the product provider for Mr W 
and in that role they dont provide advice. In his complaint Mr W has said that he thinks 
Scottish Widows werent acting in his best interest, that they owed him a duty of care and 
that he expected to receive some meaningful guidance from them. But this isnt their role. 
Their role is to provide clear information to a consumer about the product they have. Any 
advice about the suitability of a product would have to be sought from a financial advisor. I 
note that Mr W took out the policy in 1979 after speaking with a financial advisor, and he 
says that he has had various financial advisors over the years. 
Theres clearly a misunderstanding here about how the increase option works. Scottish 
Widows thinks they made it clear that a separate policy would be set up, but Mr W doesnt 
think this is the case. To come to a decision Ive looked at all of the available evidence.
The sale in 1979
The documentation from the time of the sale says on exercise of an option the Society will 
issue a new policy. The part of the documentation about the increased options says A 
policy which includes Increase Options entitles the policyholder to take out additional policies 
up to one half of the face value of the original policy. Later in the same document there is 
further mention of additional policies being set up. 
Looking at the original documentation Im satisfied Scottish Widows made it clear that any 
increase option would be set up as a new policy. It would be up to Mr Ws financial advisor at 
the time to explain the details of how the policy works and make sure it was appropriate.
On this point Mr W raises an issue about the use of the word increase saying that a 
reasonable person might interpret the word as an increase in value to the original, rather 
than a separate policy. I can see why he might say this, however I think the policy 
documents make it clear how the increase option works.
The increase option in 1984
When taking out the increase option in 1984 Mr W wrote to Scottish Widows saying I refer 
to my proposal dated 21 March 1984 and confirm that I wish to effect a with profits policy for 
a sum assured of £1713. Premiums to be paid monthly at £3.73. 
Scottish Widows issued a new separate schedule with a different policy number. This 
confirmed the sum assured and the premium amount which both reflect the smaller increase 
option amount. The schedule also confirmed that premiums were payable until Mr Ws 
death.
Mr W says that his intention when taking the increase was clear and that he wanted to add 
value to his current whole of life policy. The reason for the increase may have been clear to 
Mr W but what he proposes isnt how the policy works. Ive explained above why I think the 
documents are clear about how the policy does work.
He asks why he would be interested in taking out a policy of such relatively low value. Its not 
for Scottish Widows to offer advice about what Mr W wants to do or comment on the size of 
the increase. Mr W asked for an increase option and Scottish Widows processed that 
request in line with the policy terms.
Conversion to an endowment in 1988/89
Mr W feels this event is at the heart of this complaint. He says that when this was done he 
believed he had one whole of life policy, with an additional amount that had a separate policy 
number. 
In late 1988 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr W, quoting the original policy number, offering the 
opportunity to convert it to a with profits endowment. Mr W wrote back confirming that hed 
like to convert the policy.
A new schedule was sent out in early 1989 confirming the details of the change which only 
made reference to the original policy number. Mr W agrees, with the benefit of hindsight, that only having the original policy number on the documents mightve been a clue to what was 
happening. 
I wouldnt expect there to be any mention of the increase option policy as it didnt have the 
feature of converting to an endowment at that time. Mr W mightve thought that the increase 
option was included, but it wasnt. I think the documents made clear that what was 
happening only affected the original policy. 
Mr W thinks Scottish Widows owed him a duty of care to completely explain the situation, or 
to suggest he might take legal advice, or at least imply that he should think twice. I can see 
why Mr W might expect Scottish Widows to do these things, however as the product provider 
their responsibility was to provide clear paperwork for him to make his own decision. Looking 
at what happened Im satisfied this is what they did.  
Query made in 1991
In early 1991 Mr W wrote to Scottish Widows asking for information about both the policies 
quoting both of the policy numbers and he was with provided information about both policies. 
The letter confirms that the larger policy taken out in 1979 policy was an endowment with 
profits and that the smaller policy taken out in 1984 was a whole life with profits policy. 
There was also detailed information about the separate values for the policies. So again I 
think Scottish Widows made clear there were two separate policies in place.
Query made in 2017
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr W in 2017 about the increase option policy asking if hed like an 
update about the surrender value. Mr W returned the slip from the letter and Scottish 
Widows wrote back confirming the surrender value, which is much smaller than the original 
policy. Both letters show the policy number for the option increase. 
Mr W says that when he received the letter confirming the smaller amount he assumed it to 
be some sort of scam and disregarded it. I can see why Mr W mightve thought this as he 
was under the impression he had only one policy at the time for a much larger amount. 
However Scottish Widows did send the correct information for the increase option policy. 
Summary
Having carefully considered all of the evidence Im satisfied that Scottish Widows made clear 
the increase option was a separate policy. The two policies arent linked as Mr W believed 
they were. Because of this the increase option policy doesnt mature at the same time as the 
endowment. I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision as he feels strongly about the 
matter, however I havent seen any errors in how Scottish Widows administered the policies.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman