DRN-2347972
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd gave him unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Mr S was advised in 1997 by an adviser for Allied Dunbar, a predecessor to Zurich, to invest 
£50 into a Maximum Investment Plan (MIP One). In 1999 he received further advice to invest 
another £50 into a separate Maximum Investment Plan (MIP Two). In 2000 Mr S was 
advised to invest a further £50 each month into MIP One. In 2002 he was advised to invest a 
further £50 into MIP Two.
Mr S surrendered his plans in 2004 and got back a total of £7,761. He complained to Zurich 
through a claims management company (CMC)  who is no longer acting for him. In short, 
the CMC said that Mr S was a low-risk investor and the investment was too high risk, that he 
wasnt made aware of the risks of investing in stocks and shares. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it made the following points:
The documents Mr S will have seen at the time of sale explained that what Mr S 
would get back depended on how the investments grew and the risks of the 
investment.
The fact find completed in 1997 shows Mr S was a balanced/speculative investor and 
the investment in MIP One matched this.
Although Mr S was only 20 and an inexperienced investor, it appears he was 
prepared to take a risk given he was identified as a balanced/speculative investor 
and being inexperienced didnt make the MIP unsuitable.
The advisers Mr S saw were tied to Allied Dunbar and could only discuss plans from 
it and the MIP was the regular savings plan available at the time.
It couldnt say whether the adviser discussed the charges, but these were detailed in 
the documents Mr S will have seen at the time of sale.
There was nothing to show that Mr S wanted a dividend from his investment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
wasnt satisfied that the full risks associated with the MIPs were discussed with Mr S and he 
wasnt satisfied he was aware of the risk. He also wasnt satisfied that any alternatives were 
discussed or that the life cover was suitable for him. He thought Zurich should calculate 
redress based on a comparison between the investments and our usual benchmark for 
someone willing to take a small risk with their investment.
Zurich didnt agree with the investigator. It said that there was no dispute that the 1997 fact 
find identified that Mr S was a balanced/speculative investor and that if he didnt understand 
risk, he wouldve been uncomfortable with announcing this as his risk category. It said there 
was no reason to doubt that this isnt a fair reflection of the risk Mr S was prepared to take.
Zurich said that the adviser could only recommend the managed fund, so the choice of the 
Far East fund mustve been Mr Ss, and this isnt a fund someone reluctant to take a risk is 
likely to have chosen. It thought the MIP was a suitable investment to achieve Mr Ss 
objective of increased savings/capital. Zurich didnt agree that the life cover made the MIPs 
unsuitable given this was the minimum cover to make the plans qualifying and the cost was 
only 0.7% and 0.6% of the monthly premium 
The investigator didnt change his opinion, and this led Zurich to provide a further response 
in which it said that it still didnt agree that a MIP was unsuitable. It said that it seemed odd 
that Mr S would be unhappy with the recommendations as he had agreed to meet with the 
adviser on four occasions. But Zurich did accept that it was difficult to show how Mr Ss 
attitude to risk was identified or that he understood the implications of his fund choice, 
although it still maintained that the attitude to risk was recorded correctly.
Zurich said that notwithstanding any issue over the attitude to risk and fund choice the MIP 
itself was a suitable product and offered to calculate redress based on Mr S being invested 
in the Managed Fund instead.
The investigator wasnt persuaded this was suitable redress. He noted that the Managed 
Fund was made up of 75% equities and thought this wouldve been too risky for Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue about Mr S wanting to invest to increase his capital and Im satisfied that 
he was willing and able to afford monthly payments into a risk-based investment to achieve 
his objective. I think the main issue in this complaint is whether what he was advised to 
invest in was too risky for him.
Before I address that I note the investigator thought that one reason the MIPs were 
unsuitable was because Mr S didnt need the life cover that were part of the plans. But the 
life cover was to make the plans qualifying for tax purposes and was the lowest amount 
available. Zurich has pointed to the fact that the costs of this were minimal. In the 
circumstances Im not satisfied that the inclusion of life cover made the plans unsuitable.
Zurich has acknowledged that it is difficult to show how Mr Ss risk appetite was arrived or 
that he wouldve understood the fund choice that was made. It also asked for a review by an 
ombudsman because it disagreed with the investigators proposed redress and in doing so 
said that it was only the choice of a higher risk fund that was hard to justify. So there 
appears to be some agreement that Mr S shouldnt have invested in the Far East Fund. 
I do think the MIPs were too risky for Mr S. Zurich initially suggested that Mr S identified he 
was a balanced/speculative investor. But there is no way of knowing if that was something 
the adviser identified as his risk appetite or something Mr S chose. There is no explanation 
of what a balanced or speculative investor is, and I think it is unlikely that Mr S wouldve 
known what these terms meant in terms of risk given he was only 20 years old and a novice 
investor. So, I dont think what is set out in the fact find is persuasive evidence of his actual 
risk appetite.
Zurich have also suggested that as the adviser could only recommend the managed fund 
that this means Mr S chose the Far Eastern Fund the MIP invested in. But again, Zurich has 
ignored his age and complete lack of any investment experience. I can see no basis for 
thinking that Mr S was in a position to decide what fund he should be invested in. I think it is 
more likely than not he chose the fund based on what the adviser said regardless of the 
adviser only being able to advise investment in the managed fund.Zurich suggested that regardless of whether the fund was unsuitable the MIPs themselves 
were suitable. It has offered to calculate redress based on Mr S investing in the Managed 
Fund instead which it says was a low risk fund. Having considered the fund fact sheet that 
Zurich provided Im not satisfied that the Managed Fund was suitable for Mr S either.
Im not satisfied that a 20-year old first-time adviser whose objective was simply increased 
savings/increased capital who had built up some limited savings through his bank deposit 
accounts wouldve taken more than a low risk with the money they were willing to invest if 
they had a real understanding of risk and had been properly advised.
With that in mind I have considered the fund fact sheet Zurich has provided. This refers to 
the fund limiting the risks associated with pure equity funds and offering a balanced 
investment portfolio spread across a wide range including shares properties, fixed interest 
securities and cash. But although there was a mix of assets, the asset allocation shows that 
over 75% of the fund was in equities. If Mr S had been advised to invest in the managed 
fund, I dont think this could be considered a low-risk investment given the proportion of his 
investment that would be in equities.
In the circumstances it follows that I agree with the redress that the investigator proposed, 
based on a comparison between the investment and our normal benchmark for low risk 
investors.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Zurich do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Zurich should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
MIP One 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsof settlement
MIP Two 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Zurich should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. Zurich Assurance Ltd must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman