DRN-3818700
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGIC)
 turned down a claim he made on his pet insurance policy. 
CGIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e., the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of another company who acts as its agent. As CGIC has accepted it is accountable 
for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to CGIC includes the actions of 
the agent. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Ss pet dog underwent a spaying procedure. A few days later during a 
check-up the dog had a temperature and it was later discovered that she had an acute 
kidney injury. The dog was kept in by the vet and discharged a few days later as her 
condition had improved. 
Mr S made a claim to CGIC under his pet insurance policy. CGIC turned the claim down as it 
said that the kidney injury related to the spaying procedure. It said this was excluded under 
the policy. 
Mr S didnt agree and complained. CGIC didnt uphold the complaint and said the vet had 
described the condition as kidney injury post spay which indicated that the kidney injury 
related to the spaying procedure. 
Mr S then complained to us. He said that the vet later said that there was no proof that the 
kidney injury was caused by the spaying procedure and that it could have been due to a 
pre-existing condition. He said because of the confusion CGIC was still refusing to pay the 
claim. 
Our Investigator who considered the complaint didnt think CGIC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in rejecting the complaint. She also considered the letter prepared by the vet 
that Mr S was relying on, but she didnt think it said that the condition was due to a 
pre-existing condition. And she felt, on balance, that it was due to the spaying operation. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S but in the circumstances, I dont think CGIC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
 
Mr Ss policy excludes claim costs that occur as a result of various treatments including 
spaying. I dont think this is unusual and I am aware of other pet policies which include a 
similar exclusion. So, I think it is reasonable for CGIC to rely on it.
 
From what I have seen, the vets records say that the dog went back to the vet three days 
after her spaying procedure and had a temperature of 40.4C which caused the vet some 
concerns. Blood samples showed mild to moderate azotaemia (elevated urea and 
creatinine) which indicated that the dog had a kidney injury. She was kept in for a few days 
and due to her improving she was later discharged with follow up appointments. In the vets 
notes as well as in the claim form to CGIC the vet described this condition as acute kidney 
injury post spay.
Based on this evidence I think CGIC was acting in line with its policy terms when it rejected 
the claim. 
Mr S has provided a letter from a vet from the same practice which he says shows that the 
kidney injury did not relate to the spaying operation. I have considered this letter but I have 
to agree with our Investigator in that I also dont think that it says the injury was due to a 
pre-existing condition. The letter says the vet cannot be certain the condition was not 
pre-existing but at the same time the letter also says that the dogs creatinine had returned 
to normal and so any pre-existing renal insufficiency would have been low-grade. They also 
said that there was an incident in January 2020 when the dogs creatinine levels were high 
following a raisin ingestion. But they said this again returned back to normal levels two days 
later. 
Bearing in mind that the kidney injury was diagnosed three days after the spaying procedure 
and was described as a post spay injury throughout the medical records I think it was fair 
and reasonable that CGIC treated it as a consequence of the operation and something that 
was excluded under the policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman