DRN-2910236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way that Covea Insurance plc handled their home 
insurance claim for water damage to their home.
What happened
On 14 January 2020 Mr and Mrs W reported a claim to Covea after they discovered water 
was coming up through their kitchen floor. A contractor was appointed to trace and expose 
the leak, and thereafter a loss adjuster was appointed. In the meantime Mr W had to turn the 
water off. They were without water and had to wait until the loss adjuster attended on 
16 January to have hotel accommodation authorised. It was arranged for the leak to be 
repaired and for the mould to be treated and Mr and Mrs W were able to move back in after 
10 days.
Covea agreed that Mr and Mrs W could move into alternative accommodation (AA) during 
the repairs to the kitchen and adjoining rooms. However no suitable accommodation could 
be found that was comparable. Mr and Mrs W later found out that the agency hadnt been 
told they had a High Net Worth (HNW) policy and were told by the agency that it could have 
found suitable accommodation had it known.
Mr and Mrs W opted to stay in their home with Covea supplying them with a temporary 
kitchen. The drying and strip out works took place and it was found that the damage 
extended beyond their kitchen to most of the ground floor rooms. A schedule of works was 
prepared. At that stage Mr and Mrs Ws gas/electric supplier took a large payment from their 
account due to costs run up for the temporary kitchen and electric heating. This caused 
Mr and Mrs W financial difficulties and Covea didnt pay enough at that time to cover the 
extra costs. 
The Covid pandemic then held things up. In particular Mrs W was advised to self-isolate for 
12 weeks from 17 April 2020. As she had to stay in the home, no work could be carried out 
for this period. Covea was able to put the works out to tender. Mr and Mrs W werent happy 
with one contractor who had tendered yet Covea decided to appoint that contractor.
Mr and Mrs W raised complaints with Covea about lack of communication and they werent 
happy with Covea not agreeing to replace the kitchen units and the oven. They also raised 
their concerns about AA, electricity payments and that they had paid the excess to the drying 
contractor and were asked for it again. Mr W had to show Covea evidence they had paid it. 
Covea in response agreed to change the loss adjuster and offered £300 compensation and 
£600 towards a new oven, and said it would cover replacement of kitchen units damaged by 
the water or in removing them.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy and referred their complaints to this service. Our investigator 
said that Covea had acted fairly in resolving the complaints and had offered a reasonable 
payment of compensation.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
This decision concerns matters that arose up to and including Coveas final response letter 
of 30 July 2020. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have raised further complaints with 
Covea, those matters have to be considered separately, not least because they are still 
ongoing.
AA
Mr and Mrs W complain that firstly they were not offered AA immediately and they had to 
wait until the loss adjuster came out and approved it. That took two days from the first 
notification of the claim. Though I note the contractor came out to expose the leak on the first 
day, and could have notified Covea that the water had to be turned off. Given they had no 
water in the house at all, I think the temporary AA could have been offered straight away. 
Mr and Mrs W suffered considerable inconvenience as their only source of water was from 
outside rain butts or purchased water.
Mr and Mrs W also missed out on having longer term AA. They were only offered one or two 
bedroomed flats by the agency or a 4 bed property only available the following May. They 
were told by the agency that if had been informed they were HNW policyholders it would 
have been able to offer them more suitable accommodation. I note from its website that the 
agency does provide a service for HNW clients offering luxury properties for rental.
Mr W says they were pushed into having a temporary kitchen, and as a result of the 
pandemic they had to remain in the property when repairs could have got under way.
The agency offers the use of luxury properties but it doesnt guarantee that a property will be 
available with the right facilities and in the right area. I havent seen evidence that a property 
of that type was in fact available.
The file shows that Mr and Mrs W were reluctant to move out of the home, and certainly 
during the period of self-isolation wanted to stay there. Though I understand that although 
the visible mould had been treated, mould was discovered behind the kitchen units.
Ive found this very difficult to assess as it is very much based on what might have 
happened. If suitable AA had become available then clearly the works might have been able 
to take place sooner as Mr and Mrs W would have been out of the house. But given that the 
tender exercise was able to take place, Im not inclined to say that up until July 2020 the 
delays were all Coveas fault although it contributed to them.
service provided by the loss adjuster
The HNW policy lists as part of its benefits Your own experienced and dedicated claims 
manager who will personally manage your claim. Mr and Mrs W had to repeatedly raise 
concerns about the loss adjuster and they werent kept up to date or informed about what 
was happening. They formed the impression that the claims manager just let the loss 
adjuster get on with it, and was never available after 2.00 pm each day.Covea apologised if Mr and Mrs W felt the loss adjuster had mismanaged the claim and 
agreed to appoint a new loss adjuster. I understand Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about this 
though I think Covea took the right approach in appointing a new loss adjuster.
electricity costs
Mr and Mrs W found themselves facing a large bill because of the electricity used by the 
driers and the temporary kitchen. Their supplier took a large sum by direct debit which led to 
them having financial difficulties. They managed to reach an arrangement with the supplier 
but said that Covea hadnt offered enough to cover the costs, as the loss adjuster and 
contractor failed to accurately estimate the costs. Mr W had to carry out his own calculation 
to get this resolved. By the time of the final response letter this had been sorted out.
Im aware that this caused Mr and Mrs W significant anxiety and in this sort of claim the 
insurer will normally reimburse such costs. I understand there were errors on the part of their 
electricity supplier which added to the anxiety for Mr and Mrs W. I note that this was sorted 
out, nevertheless Covea played a part in the difficulties caused to Mr and Mrs W here.
excess
Mr and Mrs W were asked to pay the excess to the drying contractor which shouldnt have 
happened. They were asked for it again and had to show they had already paid it. This was 
a minor error on Coveas part which was remedied when Mr and Mrs W showed they had 
made the payment.
choice of contractor
Mr and Mrs W complain that, when the tenders came through, Covea chose the contractor 
who had submitted the lowest tender, against their wishes. Under the terms of the policy 
Covea will
at our option either:
- reinstate or replace the damaged buildings or any damaged part of the buildings
- pay the cost of any necessary repair or replacement work.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws unhappiness, since in the first part of the policy it says it offers:
Choice of your own contractor or supplier, or allow us to assign our own specialists if you
prefer.
However since the policy gives the insurer the option to repair or pay a settlement (common 
to most household policies), I cant say Covea did anything wrong by opting for the lowest 
tender. Mr W feels that because of what happened after the final response letter he was 
justified in not wanting that contractor. But I can only look at things as they were at the time 
of the final response, as any complaints about the contractor wont have been investigated.  
kitchen units and oven
Mr and Mrs W were concerned that units were damaged in being removed. Covea confirmed 
that if any part of the kitchen was shown to have been damaged by the water or in their 
removal it will be replaced. It also offered £600 for a replacement oven. I think Covea acted 
appropriately here.compensation
In considering compensation I have to take into account that such a claim will inevitably 
cause distress and inconvenience. I recognise that where Ive set this out above, the distress 
and inconvenience was added to in some respects by Covea. Though, as Ive said its 
difficult to predict what might have happened, especially in respect of the AA. We also take 
into account what the business did to address the complaints. Ive noted it appointed a new 
loss adjuster, offered £300 compensation, dealt with the electric bill payments and agreed to 
deal with the kitchen units and oven. Taking all that into account, I think the compensation 
offered by Covea was fair and reasonable and in line with awards we have made in similar 
cases. If Covea hasnt paid the compensation, Mr and Mrs W should get in touch with it 
directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman