DRN-3813809
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as G, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Ms G, as a director of G, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Ms G is also represented 
in this complaint by an agent but for ease, I will refer to G or Ms G throughout. 
What happened 
G is engaged in video production activities.  In April 2020, G contacted Hiscox to make a 
claim for business interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. G said that as a result 
of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020 it had to close its business, which 
resulted in a loss of revenue.   
Hiscox refused the claim. Hiscox says the policy provides cover for losses arising as a result 
of G not being able to use its premises following closure by a public authority. However, 
Hiscox said that G was not one of the types of business that was required to close as part of 
the Governments March 2020 restrictions and had been permitted to continue to operate. 
G did not agree the claim was not covered. In the meantime, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case in which it asked the courts to 
consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should respond to the pandemic. One of 
the policies considered in this case had the same wording as Gs policy with Hiscox. The 
Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox reconsidered Gs claim, following that judgment, and maintained its refusal of the 
claim, as it did not think the outcome of Gs claim was impacted by the case. 
Ms G is very unhappy about this and delays on the part of Hiscox in dealing with the matter. 
Ms G also referenced having made a claim under the policy for legal representation in this 
matter and that she is unhappy with the response to this. I cannot deal with this claim in the 
context of this decision, which is only about the refusal of the business interruption claim. 
Hiscox said it declined the claim in April 2020. In June 2020, G said it was unhappy with that 
decision and would wait the outcome of the test case. Hiscox said it wrote to G in February 
2021 to state it did not think the outcome of the claim would be affected by the test case but 
G could register the claim again for it to be reconsidered.  G didnt do this but brought a 
complaint to us. Hiscox accepts that it did not respond to the complaint in a reasonable time 
and this led to a delay in formally reconsidering the claim, which was completed in 
March 2022. The outcome was the same as in April 2020. Hiscox offered G the sum of £150 
compensation for the delay in reconsidering the claim. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst G may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close by the Government. So, it had not been caused 
an inability to use its premises, as required by the policy. The Investigator also agreed that 
the compensation already offered was reasonable for the delay in reconsidering Gs claim.
G does not accept the Investigators assessment.  
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Gs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Gs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the section of cover that both parties consider 
is relevant to this claim below: 
Public Authority 
This provides cover for losses caused by: 
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during 
the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of a notifiable human disease  
The policy defines office as being the office space you occupy at the premises shown in 
the schedule.  
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Bs was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Gs business alone. The court also made it clear that it 
may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose out an inability to use its 
premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, this extension would provide 
cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. So the question is whether or not G suffered an inability to 
use its premises.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant to considering this question. These regulations were important in 
setting out which businesses were required to close. 
Gs business of video production and video marketing for commercial clients doesnt seem to 
fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically mentioned in the March Regulations, 
either as being a business that was required to close or that was permitted to stay open. Ive 
therefore considered all the evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude that 
G was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These categories of business would all seem to be places that 
members of the public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes 
and sometimes for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair 
dressing services).
The regulations also stated that certain professional services firms were not required to 
close.
I also note that Schedule 2, Part 2 of the 26 March 2020 Regulations stated that while 
theatres and cinemas (and other such venues) were required to close to public visitors, 
those premises could be used to broadcast a performance to people outside the premises, 
whether over the internet or as part of a radio or television broadcast. While I understand G 
might not broadcast video content itself, this suggests people could work together at such 
venues on content to be broadcast. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. I consider that both Gs own employees and its customers that 
might need to attend its premises would be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work 
when attending the premises. G might have had to adjust how its premises were used, to 
comply with social distancing regulations and other guidance, but the fact remains it was 
able to use the premises (even if not as it would usually).
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, as well as the comments about the use of theatres and cinemas etc for 
broadcasting, I think it is reasonable to conclude that G was not required to close the studio 
as a result of the March Regulations.  
The circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand for Gs services might 
have fallen. So, whilst I do not doubt G suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not 
consider G suffered such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox 
acted inappropriately in declining Gs claim under this section. 
Time taken to deal with the claim 
The claim was made in April 2020 and Hiscox responded to the claim reasonably promptly to 
state it did not think it was covered as there was no inability to use the premises.  
The Supreme Court issued its decision on the case in January 2021 and Hiscox contacted G 
to reiterate its position but invited it to register its claim for reconsideration.  There was a delay in Hiscox reconsidering the claim but ultimately the position did not 
change. The claim was still not covered for the same reasons given in April 2020. I can only 
consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a financial 
business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a limited 
company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot suffer distress or frustration. 
So, I cannot consider the impact on Ms G personally of the way the claim was handled. 
I therefore consider the compensation offered already is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this is a matter Ms G feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on G. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint, as Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited has already made a reasonable offer of settlement in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman