DRN-3606185
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim on her home emergency insurance.
Mrs Ts policy is administered by a third party company on RSAs behalf and all her 
correspondence has been with this company. However, RSA is the policy underwriter, so her 
complaint is against RSA. Any reference to RSA in my decision includes its agents, including 
the administrator.
Mrs T is represented in this matter by a relative but, for simplicity, Ill refer mainly to Mrs T in 
my decision.
What happened
Mrs T had an RSA home emergency insurance policy. In June 2021, she found her kitchen 
sink was blocked. She called RSA to arrange for an emergency repair, but RSA said her 
policy didnt cover a blocked sink. Mrs T re-read her policy, believed she should be covered, 
and called RSA again. Again, RSA told Mrs T she wasnt covered.
RSA eventually agreed to send an engineer but told Mrs T shed have to pay for the call out 
if its engineer confirmed that the problem wasnt covered by her policy. Mrs T thought this 
was unfair but agreed. The engineer visited Mrs Ts home, investigated the problem, and 
said the pipework below the sink needed to be replaced. RSA said this wasnt covered by 
her policy and charged her the call out fee.
Mrs T arranged for her own engineer to visit. He cut the knuckle bend of the waste pipe and 
found the problem was 100mm approx. diameter cluster of fat/grease, which he removed. 
He also replaced the knuckle bend and cleansed the pipe. This work cost Mrs T £264 
(including VAT). 
Mrs T complained to RSA. She said, in summary:
RSA failed to honour the terms of her home emergency cover by making her pay for 
the initial call out. 
Its engineers work was inadequate. He didnt do enough to investigate the problem 
and his diagnosis was wrong. 
This meant she had to pay for her own engineer to fix the problem, adding to her 
costs.
RSA said it didnt accept the claim because a blocked sink  an internal blockage  wasnt 
covered by her policy. It said Mrs Ts engineers report confirmed its decision was correct.
Mrs T didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. She told us RSA failed to 
deliver what is covered under her policy. She says this caused her unnecessary stress and 
upset, as well as the inconvenience of having to arrange and pay for her own repairs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs Ts 
engineer found that the blockage was caused by a build-up of fat. This wasnt covered by 
Mrs Ts policy so RSAs decision to decline her claim was reasonable. He was also satisfied 
that RSA told Mrs T it would recover the cost of the call out from her if the problem wasnt 
covered by her policy.
Mrs T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T believes her policy covers her for her blocked sink. She quoted her Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) and Section 1 of the policy booklet, which say shes covered 
for damage to or failure of the plumbing and draining system which means that internal 
flooding or water damage is a likely consequence. RSA referred to the same section of the 
policy but said its clear that this provides cover for blocked external drains, not a blocked 
sink.
The first page of the policy booklet sets out the purpose of the insurance: 
This insurance policy is designed to work alongside your household buildings or 
contents insurance policy. Whilst we are happy to assist you in an emergency by 
sourcing a contractor, we arent able to provide you with help relating to day-to-day 
maintenance of your home and its contents. 
There are two important points to note and I think theyre clear from the wording above:
1. The policy is designed to work alongside a standard home insurance policy.
2. Its for emergencies only.
I also think its helpful to quote in full the section of the policy booklet highlighted by both 
parties (What You are Covered For, page 5):
Emergency repairs following damage to or failure of the plumbing and drainage 
system which:
i) means that internal flooding or water damage is a likely consequence; or 
ii) means that you do not have access to one or more useable toilets within your 
home; or 
iii)causes blocked external drains that are solely your responsibility within the 
boundary of the home, where this can be resolved by jetting.
I dont think a blocked sink falls under this definition. Whilst undoubtedly inconvenient, it isnt 
an emergency where either internal flooding is likely or blocks external drains. 
The same section of the policy explicitly excludes blocked toilets and/or drains where this 
has been caused as a consequence of misuse Page 10 of the policy booklet (Policy 
Conditions) requires Mrs T to take due care to maintain the home and its equipment in 
good order to prevent damage. 
Mrs Ts engineer found the blockage was caused by a build-up of fat or grease in the pipe. 
Water companies generally advise that fat, oil, or grease shouldnt be poured down a sink. 
So I agree with RSA that the blockage can reasonably be considered either a result of 
misuse or a failure to maintain the sink/drain. Put another way, a properly maintained sink wouldnt become blocked to the extent that it required an engineer to fix it.
I agree with Mrs T when she says she isnt an expert and cant be expected to diagnose the 
problem herself. But while I also agree that RSAs engineers diagnosis was incomplete, Im 
satisfied that the true cause of the blockage  as correctly diagnosed by Mrs Ts engineer  
isnt covered by the policy. This means that even if the first engineer had correctly identified 
the build-up of fat or grease, RSAs decision to decline the claim would have been the same. 
Im also satisfied that RSA told Mrs T shed have to pay for the engineers call out during the 
phone call and follow-up email on 30 June 2021. 
Im sure RSA telling her she wasnt covered and its engineers failure to correctly identify the 
problem would have been incredibly frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs T, particularly with 
vulnerable children in the house. However, Im satisfied RSA acted reasonably by declining 
the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman