DRN-4258172
The complaint
Mr I complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr I was supplied with a car and entered into a  conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 12 years old and had covered mileage 
of around 94,750.
Mr I experienced issues with the car. In July 2022 he complained to Moneybarn and said the 
car had been modified and that he was struggling to get insurance. Mr I also said that the car 
wasnt as advertised, that it was dirty and that the clutch was spongy. Mr I said he wanted to 
reject the car.
Moneybarn partially upheld the complaint. It said that the supplying dealer had agreed to 
inspect the car and carry out any necessary repairs. Moneybarn said it wouldnt be 
upholding the part of Mr Is complaint relating to cosmetic issues and/or misrepresentation at 
the point of supply. Moneybarn acknowledged that Mr I had been without the use of the car 
for 2 weeks whilst it was being repaired and offed a refund of 2 weeks of instalments totalling 
£78.59.
In January 2023 the car broke down. Mr I raised a further complaint with Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This took place in March 
2023. The inspection report concluded that the exhaust and intake system had non standard 
components fitted, with the air intake filter appearing to be in new condition and not likely to 
have been in place at the point of supply. The report also said that because the car had 
covered 4379 miles since the point of supply, it was unlikely that the faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the report, Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. It said that 
given the age and mileage of the car, it was likely that the issues Mr I was experiencing were 
age related.
Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that based on the information shed 
seen, she didnt think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mr I didnt agree. He said the car had been sold to him with modifications and he wanted to 
reject it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr I was around 12 years old and had covered 94,750 miles. So its 
reasonable to expect that the car would already have a certain amount of wear and tear and 
that it was likely to require repairs sooner than, say, a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful the consumer can 
reject the car.
After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available information about the issues which Mr I experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car has a fault. I say this because the 
independent inspection report says that the car wont start and that theres an error message 
saying that the car has overheated.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
An independent inspection report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Ive reviewed the independent inspection report obtained in this 
case. Ive also had regard  to the fact that the supplying dealer carried out some repairs in 
2022 following Mr Is first complaint.  
Theres nothing in the independent inspection report which suggests that the previous 
repairs havent been successful, or that the current fault is linked to the issues which Mr I 
experienced previously.
The independent report doesnt say exactly what has caused the fault with the car. But it 
does say that the cars engine has overheated. Engines can overheat for many reasons, but 
in general its usually because something is wrong with the cooling system which means that 
heat isnt able to escape the engine compartment. Although the independent report doesnt 
say what the cause of the overheating is, it does say that because the car has covered 4379 
miles since the point of supply, the fault would not have been present or developing at the 
point of supply.
I havent seen any evidence from Mr I to challenge the engineers conclusions. In the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply. Im therefore unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. 
I appreciate that Mr I feels very strongly about the modifications which have been made to 
the car. Its not in dispute that there are some modifications. The inspection report states that 
the exhaust and intake system have non-standard components fitted. However, theres 
nothing in the report to suggest that these components are linked to the current fault or that 
they are the cause of the engine overheating. Further, the engineer has stated that the non-
standard components in the air intake system appears to have been fitted after the point of supply. So, this isnt something I can hold Moneybarn responsible for.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. I wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman