DRN-4040942
The complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted access to funds in her 
account and then closed the account. She would like more compensation than the £250 
Barclays has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I dont doubt Ms Ts frustration and concern when she couldnt access a payment 
that had been made into her account. Barclays has explained that as the payment 
was for a large sum of money and out of character for the account it placed a 
safeguard on the account due to fraud concerns. Once Ms T provided adequate 
proof of the funds the restriction was lifted. Fraud protection measures are there to 
protect both the consumer and the bank. As Barclays had concerns about the 
payment I dont think its actions were unreasonable.
In terms of the closure of Ms Ts account, although Barclays decided to close the 
account in its final response letter of  7 October 2022 it  said it would reverse this 
decision but didnt. Barclays then reviewed the decision to close the account and 
decided this was the correct course of action but felt that it should have given Ms T 
appropriate notice of this closure. Under its terms and conditions Barclays is entitled 
to close accounts so I dont think its actions were inappropriate.
Barclays has offered Ms T £100 compensation for the abrupt closure of her account, 
£100 for providing incorrect information about her account closure and £50 for the 
delay in accessing her funds as the restriction on the account was lifted the day her 
account was closed. I think its reasonable that Barclays does compensate Ms T I 
have to decide if the total of £250 Barclays has offered is reasonable.
I dont think the closure without notice was unreasonable given Barclays had 
concerns about the account but I do think it would have caused some distress and 
inconvenience to Ms T to be told this decision was going to be reversed but wasnt. I 
can appreciate it must have been further frustrating  for Ms T that once Barclays 
concluded the payment into her account was genuine that access was lifted the day 
the account closed leading to a delay in Ms T getting the funds. Whilst I have 
considered the points Ms T has made including her personal situation at the time 
taking all of this into account I think the total payment of £250 Barclays has offered is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Barclays Bank  UK PLC should, if it has not done so already,  pay 
Ms T :-
£100 for the abrupt closure of her account
£100 for providing incorrect information in relation to the account closure
£50 for the delay in Ms T accessing her funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman