DRN-3484046
The complaint
Mr H complains that BISL Limited (BISL) treated him unfairly in the way it approached his 
motor insurance renewal and the price it offered.
What happened
BISL were the broker for, and administrator of, Mr Hs car insurance policy during 2021. 
In December 2021 it sent Mr H a renewal quotation for the following year.
Mr H is unhappy with BISL for several reasons. He says its actions demonstrate that it is 
trying to circumvent the new rules from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), one of which 
states that a renewal cannot be priced higher than an equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). Ill refer to these as the new pricing rules moving forward.
Mr H has raised several issues, including:
He wasnt able to obtain a quote as a new customer, for a policy through his existing 
insurer, via a price comparison website which is part of the same group of companies 
as BISL. He feels this is a deliberate attempt to prevent him from knowing whether it 
is adhering to the new pricing rules.
He was able to obtain a cheaper quote for another insurer, which is part of the same 
group of companies as his current insurer and for whom BISL acts as the policy 
administrator, via a price comparison website (PCW). He feels this breaches the new 
pricing rules.
The quote he got for the separate insurer, via the PCW, was virtually identical to the 
quote he got directly. But the direct quote should have included a 10% discount he 
was entitled to as an existing customer of that organisation. He feels this breaches 
the new pricing rules.
BISL allowed his existing policy to automatically renew (auto-renew), despite him 
telling it beforehand that he wasnt happy with the quote unless BISL applied further 
discounts.
BISL shared his personal data with other parties, in breach of data protection 
legislation. He was also incorrectly told that BISL didnt have a data protection officer.
When calling BISL to discuss quotes obtained through price comparison websites, he 
had to make separate calls to discuss quotes from different brands, even though 
BISL acts as the administrator for them all. He feels they should transfer him 
internally rather than expect him to make separate calls.
When dealing with his renewal, and subsequent complaint, several agents of BISL 
hung up on him.
To summarise BISLs position:
Mr Hs renewal quote was generated in December 2021, so the new pricing rules 
didnt apply as these didnt come into effect until January 2022. In any event, Mr H 
was provided with an equivalent new business quote when he called BISL. So, it 
hasnt refused to provide the ENBP.
Insurers arent required to quote for renewal, nor are they required to provide a quote 
on any, or all, PCWs.
Each insurance brand, whether administered by BISL or not, is a separate entity with 
its own business rates, terms, conditions and underwriting risk criteria. So, the fact 
Mr H obtained a cheaper new business quote from a different brand doesnt mean it 
has breached the new pricing rules, regardless of whether those brands are part of 
the same group.
The 10% discount Mr H sought to obtain is not available to customers using PCWs, 
only through the app of the company.
 
It made it clear to Mr H that his policy would auto-renew unless he asked for it not to. 
But Mr H didnt tell it to cancel the auto-renew. And, in any event, it cancelled the 
renewed policy at no cost or detriment to Mr H, when he expressed dissatisfaction.
Its privacy notice allows it to share his data with the organisations which it did. But 
Mr H could escalate his concerns about this to the Information Commissioners Office 
if he remained unhappy.
BISL administers policies for a number of brands which have their own mutually 
agreed terms and conditions, rating requirements and product information. So, when 
calling to discuss quotes, its necessary to call the dedicated number and speak to a 
representative of each brand. It isnt BISLs policy to transfer calls internally. 
However, it has provided feedback from Mr H about this to its process improvement 
team.
Its not able to determine with certainty whether all the calls Mr H had with its agents 
were deliberately ended, or whether it was connection issues which are more 
prevalent now that its agents are working from home. But it accepts at least one call 
was ended deliberately when it shouldnt have been, and that Mr H was given 
incorrect information about its data protection officer. BISL has apologised and paid 
Mr H £100 compensation for these service issues.
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the new pricing rules are there to prevent existing customers from being 
quoted higher amounts than equivalent new customers  but she hadnt seen any evidence 
that BISL had provided him a renewal quote higher than a new business quote within the 
same week. So, she didnt think it had breached the rule.
Our investigator also said businesses are entitled to exercise commercial judgement with 
regard to how they take on new business, so she didnt think it was unfair that the 10% 
existing customer discount was only available through a particular sales channel. She said 
despite BISL administering policies for different brands owned by a single group, each brand 
is separate and entitled to price differently. And in any event, she said Mr Hs renewal pre-
dated the new pricing rules.Our investigator also considered the service issues. She agreed that BISLs privacy notice 
allowed it to share Mr Hs data with the organisations it did. She also said the apology and 
the £100 BISL had paid was a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint about the incorrect 
advice and staff terminating his calls.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs primary complaint is about the price of his insurance renewal. Ordinarily, its the 
underwriter of the policy who is responsible for the pricing of a policy. But in this case, BISL 
sets the price of the policy, which includes a fixed cost from the underwriter. So, BISL is the 
party responsible for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H has raised numerous concerns about BISLs actions, with regard to his renewal 
quotation. Ive carefully considered all the points he has made, but Im not intending to 
answer each one individually. Instead Ill focus on what I consider to be the key points at the 
heart of this complaint issue. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service and my role within it.
New rules for general insurance pricing were introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need 
to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent 
retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022.
The new pricing rules werent in place when Mr H was offered his renewal by BISL, so it 
didnt need to follow these at the time as they werent relevant. But as Mr H is concerned 
these were breached, Ive explained below what, in short, the rules set out. And why if 
relevant, which they were not, that I think its unlikely BISL would have been in breach of 
these based on the information provided by Mr H.
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new busines price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and so ENBP offered one day 
might be different to the one offered three weeks later. The rules dont mean all insurers 
need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through different 
brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that different sales 
channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this is fair.
Mr H has pointed to a number of things he feels demonstrate that BISL has been in breach 
of these rules. As Ive said, these rules werent in place when his renewal invitation was 
generated and so they didnt apply to this. But even setting this aside and simply considering 
the treatment of BISL with what Mr H has said happened, when it provided him with a 
number of quotes through different brands or channels, Im not persuaded it has done 
anything wrong. Mr H has also complained about some customer service issues, including that BISL allowed 
his policy to automatically renew (auto-renew) despite him making it clear that he wasnt 
happy with the renewal price offered. The new pricing rules do make it clear that insurers 
should remove barriers to cancelling automatic renewals, so I can understand Mr Hs 
concern with what happened. But from what Ive seen, BISL told Mr H that his policy was 
due to auto-renew on 17 January 2022 and to let it know if he wanted to cancel this. BISL 
says Mr H told it he wanted to receive its response to his complaint before he made a 
decision. So, BISL didnt cancel the auto-renewal as it didnt want to risk Mr H being left 
uninsured.
Ive thought carefully about the arguments of both parties. I can appreciate Mr Hs concern, 
as he had made it clear he wasnt happy with the price of his renewal quote. But I can also 
understand why BISL didnt cancel the renewal as it wasnt specifically instructed to. In any 
event, what I think is crucial to this complaint point is the renewal was cancelled swiftly, and 
at no cost or detriment to Mr H, when he confirmed he no longer wanted that cover. So, I 
dont think BISL needs to take any further action here.
Mr H complained that BISL shared his personal data with the group which owns two of the 
insurance brands BISL administers and was quoting for. BISL explained that its privacy 
notice allows it to do this. Ive checked, and this is correct. I should also point out that its not 
our services role to decide whether an organisation has breached data protection 
legislation. Thats for the Information Commissioners Office. And I can see that BISL 
correctly referred Mr H to them, if he remained unhappy.
Mr H has also complained that BISLs phone lines are set up by brand, and that its agents 
wont transfer a customer internally when they want to discuss quotes from multiple brands. 
BISL has explained the reason why its call centres are set up separately by brand. It has 
explained that its policy is not to transfer calls internally, to protect the integrity of the 
separate brands. But it said it would provide Mr Hs feedback to its process improvement 
team.
A business is entitled to exercise commercial judgement in the way it operates and in setting 
internal policies and procedures and this isnt something I would seek to interfere with. That 
said, Im satisfied BISL has provided a suitable explanation to Mr H regarding the reasons it 
is set up the way it is. 
Mr H has also complained about the service he received from BISL when querying his 
renewal quotes and making his subsequent complaint. He says he was given incorrect 
information about BISLs data protection officer, and that his calls were terminated on 
numerous occasions. BISL accepts its service fell short and has paid Mr H £100 
compensation.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr H and BISL and have carefully considered its response 
and offer. Having done so, Im satisfied it has already done enough to put things right. I think 
its explanations and apology, alongside the £100, are sufficient to appropriately compensate 
Mr H for the mistakes it made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against BISL Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 Adam Golding
Ombudsman