DRN-3723607
The complaint
Miss B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) told her she was 
eligible to switch her mortgage from repayment to interest only for a period of 12 months, but 
later changed its position. Miss B said she had to move lenders to obtain a lower interest 
rate and reduce her monthly mortgage payments. She wants the early repayment charge 
applied on redemption to be refunded in the circumstances. 
What happened
Miss B held a residential mortgage with Clydesdale, made up of two sub accounts. Both on 
repayment terms.
In August 2021 she told Clydesdale that she would soon be taking adoption leave from work 
and would have reducing earnings for a period of 12 months. Miss B asked to switch her 
mortgage to interest only during this time. Clydesdale said it could agree to vary her contract 
terms for up to 12 months. The agreement would be in reviewed three months at a time. 
Clydesdale assessed Miss Bs circumstances and agreed to switch her account to interest 
only from October 2021 to December 2021. Following a further review. It agreed a further 
three months extension until March 2022. 
However, in March 2022 it came to Clydesdales attention that Miss B had savings of more 
than £14,000. Clydesdale declined a further extension to the interest only terms on the basis 
that Miss B had enough money in her savings account to afford to make her capital and 
interest repayments until she returned to work in September 2022. Clydesdale calculated 
that even after making her full mortgage payments, shed still have around £4,000 left in 
savings.
Miss B didnt agree. She said the money was earmarked for other expenses, such as paying 
for a new car to replace her old one that had recently been written off and to use for general 
family expenses and utilities whilst on a reduced salary. 
She complained to Clydesdale about this. She was told her complaint would be fast-tracked 
to get matters resolved before her next payment due date of 1 April 2022. Clydesdale said 
either way shed be notified before her payments reverted to the full amount. This didnt 
happen.
After realising the full capital repayment amount had been debited from her account on 
1 April 2022, Miss B called Clydesdale to raise further concerns about what happened. After 
some initial difficulties getting through to the complaints team, she did speak to someone 
that day and explained why she felt let down by Clydesdale. Miss B thought in the 
circumstances Clydesdale should agree to waive the early repayment charges (ERC) 
applicable so that she could move her mortgage to a different lender. 
Clydesdale considered the complaint in full and provided its written response at the end of 
April 2022. It didnt agree that the interest only extension has been wrongly refused or that 
the ERC should be waived. It did accept that it gave Miss B wrong information in relation to 
the complaints process and paid her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Miss B brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B remained unhappy 
and asked for her complaint to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that, based on what it knew at the time, Clydesdale responded fairly to Miss Bs 
change in circumstances by agreeing a short-term switch to interest only. Miss B wanted the 
agreement in place for 12 months. Clydesdale did manage her expectations by explaining 
how the three-month reviews would work. But I can also see why, from Miss Bs perspective, 
this appeared to be simply a formality.
Im satisfied that by agreeing to review Miss Bs arrangement periodically, Clydesdale was 
acting responsibility as it could actively check that the agreement continued to be suitable for 
Miss Bs in the circumstances on an ongoing basis. 
A switch to interest only was agreed on the basis that Miss B was expecting to encounter 
financial difficulties due to a reduction in income. During the affordability review in March 
2022, Clydesdale discovered Miss B had savings more than £14,000. This was enough to 
cover her full capital repayments until she returned to work, plus more. So, she wasnt 
considered to be in financial difficulty.
I appreciate Miss B had other plans for the money, but I dont think Clydesdale acted 
unreasonably by expecting her to prioritise her secured debt. Its also fair to say that a 
customer would be expected to rearrange non-priority commitments first, ahead of expecting 
forbearance from their mortgage lender.  
A lender isnt expected to agree a switch from repayment to interest only in every situation, 
just because a customer would like that option. Its a measure in place to help customers in 
financial difficulty, which wasnt the case here. Switching to interest only costs the customer 
more in the long term, so its not uncommon for a lender to agree, only if necessary. 
In hindsight Clydesdale could have explored Miss Bs savings sooner to reduce the loss of 
expectation here. But even though Clydesdale didnt get everything right, Miss B hasnt lost 
out, so I wont be asking it to put things right. Miss B did get the benefit of lower monthly 
mortgage payments for six months, that she wanted, and that she wouldnt usually be 
entitled to. When information about her savings came to light, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to not agree a further extension of those terms. 
I do agree Miss B was provided with mis-leading information during the complaints process 
which led to a degree of distress and inconvenience. 
Miss B was sent a letter that contained the wrong telephone number and opening hours for 
the complaints team. This led to her making a wasted call when following up on her 
complaint on 1 April 2022. But she was able to speak to someone later the same day who 
was able to discuss her concerns and explain next steps. So, the detriment was minimal.
I agree Miss B should have been given notice that her full capital payment would be taken 
before it was, as agreed. But I dont this would have made a difference in the circumstances. Clydesdale hadnt changed its decision and so the payment was always doing to be due, 
under the terms of her mortgage. Whilst Miss B was given misleading information and 
should be compensated for that, shes not provided specific detail about being unable to 
afford other commitments that month as a result and she had access to her savings account 
funds too, if required. 
So, when considering everything, including the impact of Clydesdales actions, I think the 
£150 compensation it has paid Miss B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I also wont be asking Clydesdale to refund the ERC Miss B paid when she redeemed her 
mortgage. Miss B chose to redeem her mortgage early and move to another lender knowing 
that an ERC would be charged in the circumstances and in line with the terms of her 
mortgage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman