DRN-3605189
The complaint
Ms M complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited (Wirecard) have failed to account for 
funds which were supposed to be sent to her mortgage provider. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, in summary, Ms M had an account with Wirecard and the issue relates to a 
payment of £330.06 which was due for Ms Ms mortgage. Ms M has been chasing Wirecard 
and her mortgage provider to establish where the funds have gone. The mortgage provider 
said the funds had been clawed back but Wirecard said their systems showed there werent 
sufficient funds in Ms Ms account so the direct debit payment for the mortgage payment 
didnt go through. Ms M complained to Wirecard as she felt the information showed the 
payment had left her Wirecard account. Wirecard responded and maintained there were 
insufficient funds in Ms Ms account so the £330.06 never left her Wirecard account.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M. He thought the funds had gone missing from 
Ms Ms account and recommended Wirecard refund the £330.06 together with 8% simple 
interest. He also recommended they pay £150 compensation. Ms M agreed but Wirecard 
didnt respond so the matter was referred for a decision. 
Wirecard then went into liquidation so our service has been corresponding with company O 
 who are the agents acting for the liquidators. Company O said the liquidators are prepared 
to pay £540 to settle the complaint. This is broken down as a refund of £330.06, 8% interest 
at £55 and compensation of £150. This totals £535.06 but the liquidators have offered £540. 
Ms M said she wanted a decision so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the liquidators offer is a 
fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms M. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on whether I think the 
offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I do acknowledge why a consumer will 
want to know specifically who is at fault if theres a problem. But, despite there being 
conflicting accounts, Ive focussed on the offer made by the liquidators. 
The dispute between Ms M and Wirecard was around the £330.06 which was for a mortgage 
payment. The liquidators are prepared to refund this together with 8% interest, so I think its 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and resolves the issue which led to Ms Ms 
complaint and puts her back in the position she wouldve been in had no error occurred. 
I think its right that Wirecard should compensate Ms M for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive 
looked at the errors by Wirecard and what the impact of those errors have been. I can see 
Ms M was chasing Wirecard over a period of time as information she received from her 
mortgage provider wasnt consistent with what Wirecard were saying had happened. And, 
theres the frustration to Ms M due to the funds not displaying clearly on her account. I can 
see Ms M is also concerned theres been damage to her reputation with the mortgage 
company and any impact on her credit file. I note Ms M feels the offer made by the 
liquidators was reasonable but there has since been further time which has passed and she 
has been left waiting for a resolution for longer. I do acknowledge this but Wirecard went into 
liquidation which meant there was a process for the liquidators to follow. And, while I accept 
it did then take longer to get the liquidators thoughts on a resolution, I cant hold Wirecard 
responsible for that as the liquidators were taking necessary steps associated with the 
liquidation process. 
Taking this all into account, I think the compensation of £150 offered by the liquidators is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I wish to reassure Ms M Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service. And, its also for this reason that Ive considered the 
liquidators proposal as being fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that the offer put forward by the liquidators, on behalf of Wirecard, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the frustration and inconvenience caused 
to Ms M. So, Wirecard should pay Ms M £540. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited must pay 
Ms M £540. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman