DRN-2579404
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Wirecard Solutions Limited dealt with a chargeback request hed 
made.
What happened
On 16 July 2019 Mr E purchased a train ticket for €238, using a pre-paid debit card supplied 
by Wirecard. The terms of this ticket were that it wasnt refundable. But Mr E wasnt able to 
travel and didnt use the ticket. He requested a refund from the train company who supplied 
the ticket, but they didnt reply. So Mr E raised a chargeback request through Wirecard. 
Mr C has complained that Wirecard didnt deal with the chargeback correctly  they didnt 
submit any viable defence nor did they challenge the ticket suppliers refusal to refund, 
even though he asked them to. Wirecard didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so Mr E 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the ticket Mr E purchased was non-refundable. And the chargeback 
rules dont cover situations when the service was provided but the customer chose not to 
use it. So he didnt think Wirecard had done anything wrong by not processing the 
chargeback, and not refunding Mr E the cost of the train ticket.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said he thought the validity of the transaction has 
to be looked at and the underlying issue of whether there was alleged misconceilment [sic] 
of information regarding the purchase of the ticket concerned. Mr E thought that, had this 
happened, then the matter wouldve been investigated further. So hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen that Mr E purchased a train ticket from Brussels to London, for same day travel, on 
16 July 2019. And its not disputed that he was then unable to travel on that day. The terms 
of the ticket he purchased were that the ticket was exchangeable but not refundable. Which 
means that Mr E couldve arranged to travel at a different time/day, but he wasnt entitled to 
his money back if he didnt use the ticket.
Because he wasnt able to travel, Mr E applied to the train company who he purchased the 
ticket from for a refund. The train company didnt offer to refund Mr E. So, as Mr E had 
purchased the ticket on a debit card supplied by Wirecard, he applied for a chargeback.
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme that applies to debit card purchases. And theres no 
guarantee that any money will be recovered. It can be used to resolve problems with goods 
or services such as if the goods or services were never supplied or if the merchant was 
supposed to provide a refund but didnt. But chargebacks are decided based on the card 
scheme's rules, not on the relative merits of the dispute itself. So when considering a 
chargeback complaint, Im looking at Wirecards actions and Im not considering the actions 
of the train company.
The train ticket Mr E purchased wasnt refundable. I appreciate Mr Es comments that this 
wasnt made clear on either the ticket or in the ticket office where he made the purchase. But 
Ive also seen the train company said they wouldve discussed the ticket options with Mr E at 
the point of purchase. And a refundable ticket wouldve cost more.
The ticket also referred to the terms and conditions of the train operator. I also appreciate Mr 
Es comments that hed purchased the ticket before this information was provided to him, 
and that it wasnt reasonable for him to have checked these conditions before he made the 
purchase. But, while Mr E may have genuine grievances against the train company, it 
doesnt alter the fact that he purchased a non-refundable ticket  whether he knew it or not.
And, as Ive said, when looking at this complaint, Im considering the schemes rules, not the 
merits of the dispute itself.
Wirecard considered the chargeback request under Goods or Services Not Provided. And, 
because Mr E had a valid ticket for a train service which wasnt cancelled, then the service 
he paid for was provided. It wasnt disputed that Mr E didnt take advantage of the service 
hed paid for but, because he had a non-refundable ticket, he wasnt entitled to his money 
back.
Mr E has also said that Wirecard shouldve considered the chargeback under Goods or 
Services Were Either Not as Described or Defective. He believes the ticket was defective 
because it didnt clearly state is wasnt refundable. But, under the chargeback terms, this 
term only applies if any one of the following applies:
when delivered from the merchant, the goods arrived broken or could not be used for 
the intended purpose
goods and services do not conform to their description 
the merchant did not honour the terms and conditions of the contract
Because the ticket was valid (it could be used for the intended purpose), it didnt say that it 
was refundable (it conformed to the description), and the train ran as advertised (the terms 
and conditions of the contract were honoured); Im satisfied that this term didnt apply. So it 
was reasonable for Wirecard not to consider it when processing the chargeback.
While I dont doubt that, to the best of his memory, Mr E wasnt made aware the ticket wasnt 
refundable on purchase; because it wasnt, Wirecard correctly applied the rules in not 
processing the chargeback request. So I wont be asking Wirecard to do anything differently.
Ive also seen from the evidence that Mr E has raised the issue of the ticket sale itself with 
the Rail Ombudsman in Belgium (the country of purchase). Because this has been 
considered by another Ombudsman Scheme, I wont make any further comment about the 
sale of the ticket itself  this isnt something I have the jurisdiction to consider.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about Wirecard Solutions 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman