DRN-2334825
The complaint
Ms G disputes a debt with Capquest Debt Recovery Limited and feels it has treated her 
unfairly.
What happened
Capquest says it administers the debt on behalf of another company who bought the debt 
from a bank in February 2020. Capquest feels that Ms G owes this debt and should pay it.
Ms G says she doesnt know about this and that Capquest couldnt prove she owes this 
debt. She doesnt want to pay it and doesnt want it on her credit file.
Capquest accepts that due to not having the original paperwork from the time that Ms G took 
out the credit agreement with the bank, it cannot enforce payment of the debt. Nevertheless 
it says Ms G owes the money and that it is entitled to ask Ms G to pay the money back. Ms 
G says Capquest has been unfair in asking for money to repay the debt, so she complained 
to it. Capquest feels it hasnt done anything wrong.
Ms G disagreed, so she complained here. The Investigator did not agree with Ms G. As Ms 
G remains unhappy this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capquest and Ms G dont agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Having considered all of Ms Gs arguments Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint. I say 
this for the following reasons.
I have seen the evidence Capquest has supplied showing the debts history. This includes its 
data regarding the bank the debt originated from. It shows how Ms G was then defaulted in 
2017 and then the debt was purchased in February 2020 by another company. And 
Capquest has shown that it administers this debt on behalf of this other company. Capquest 
has also pointed to the account history of this debt which it administers and shown that Ms G 
paid towards the debt in both January and February 2020.
So I can see this debt originated at the bank and Ms G complained about the default being 
added to her credit file at the time and the details of that. I can see the debt being sold and 
Capquest then starting to administer the debt which Ms G was still paying towards around 
the time of the purchase. So I am satisfied there is a debt which Ms G owes and that 
Capquest are administering that debt.
It is important to clarify that our service does not have the power to decide if a debt is legally 
enforceable or not. Only the Courts can do this. Our service would also not say a business 
needs to write off an outstanding balance or stop attempting to collect on a debt if we felt it 
has acted fairly and reasonably.
Capquest have accepted that it cannot enforce the debt. But it feels that as it is owed the 
debt it is entitled to ask Ms G to pay it. And I feel that is fair. The fact that Capquest accepts 
that this is not enforceable doesnt mean Ms G doesnt owe the money or that Capquest 
cannot ask her to repay it. And I can see it fairly told Ms G the debt was unenforceable, so it 
hasnt done anything unfair there.
Ms G says Capquest has acted unfairly. Ive considered the account and correspondence 
history Capquest has provided. From this Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that 
Capquest has treated Ms G unfairly. She hasnt pointed to any particular incidents as being 
aggressive or unfair. And I can see that although Capquest has contacted Ms G on 
occasions I can also see she has contacted it on two occasions. Having reviewed these 
records Im not persuaded Ms G has been treated unfairly here by Capquest. And I dont 
think it has acted aggressively towards her or harassed her. Ms G has said she feels 
stressed about being chased for the debt she owes. This maybe so, but this doesnt stem 
from Capquest treating her unfairly.
Having considered all of the above I see no persuasive reason for Capquest not to be 
reporting on this debt on Ms Gs credit file. And this includes the historical movements of the 
account as it has taken over this reporting. Im not persuaded Ms G has been treated unfairly 
here. So I dont see any reason for the debt to be written off or for Capquest to cease 
collection activity. Im not persuaded Ms G has been treated unfairly by Capquest in the 
circumstances. So, in short, this complaint does not succeed. 
I appreciate Ms G would rather not pay this debt and that shell be disappointed by my 
decision. However Im satisfied she owes the debt administered by Capquest and that it is 
entitled to ask her to repay it until either she does pay it all or Capquest decides to stop 
trying to get her to pay it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman