DRN-3826336
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr H, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W provides consultants to its customers to help them with the purchase and installation of a
product for their home. W said that in early 2020 customers were reluctant to invite Ws
consultants into their homes due to the rapid escalation of SARS-CoV-2. W said that on
10 March 2020, it decided to amend how it carried out its business to provide an online
service. W said this was well received but that business declined each week.
In Spring 2020, W asked its broker if a claim would be covered under its business
interruption insurance with Aviva but was told it wouldnt.
Following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business
Interruption Insurance test case W claimed on its policy. Ws broker initially said Ws
business had been impacted by Covid-19, but W later said that the broker had made an
error and its claim was for interruption to its business caused by the following specified
diseases  Acute Encephalitis, Meningitis, Hepatitis and Dysentery.
W said that it had made changes to how it carried out its business as customers were
reticent to invite its sales reps into their homes. W said its business had been impacted by
customer anxiety, customer behaviour and, amongst other things, the pressure on the NHS
which had led to the Scottish Governments decision to impose restrictions.
W said that SARS-CoV-2 causes both Covid-19 and the specified diseases, so they are both
caused by the same underlying fortuity. W said the specified diseases were therefore a
concurrent cause of its loss and as Covid-19 wasnt excluded, the loss should be covered.
In support of this, W has also referred to the Coronavirus Act 2020 and the Coronavirus Act
(Scotland) (No.2). These refer to modifications in the law in response to coronavirus and say
coronavirus means severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). W
also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case and the judges
comments in Rockliffe Hall Ltd v Travelers Insurance Co Ltd [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm)
(Rockliffe Hall) in support of why its claim should be paid.
Aviva said the loss experienced by Ws business in March 2020 had been caused by Covid-
19 and not the other diseases. They said as Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases which
was covered under the policy, Ws claim wouldnt be covered.
Unhappy with Avivas response, W brought its complaint to our service. It provided a detailed
explanation of why it thought its loss had been caused by the specified diseases listed
above. W said SARS-CoV-2, the virus which caused Covid-19 also caused the specified
diseases and there had been cases of these diseases within a five mile radius. As these
diseases contributed to its businesss losses, W thought the policy should provide cover.
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt
think Ws losses had been caused by one of the covered diseases.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 October 2022 explaining why I didnt 
intend to uphold Ws complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
W has made a number of detailed points in support of why its claim should be paid. While
Ive considered them all, Im not going to address every point in this decision and will instead
focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal
nature of our service.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ws business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant clause within Ws policy says it covers loss as a result of:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the
boundary of Your Premises
Acute Encephalitis, Meningitis, Hepatitis and Dysentery are all listed as being specified
diseases within the definition of the policy; Covid-19 isnt. Therefore, the question Ive
considered is whether Ws loss was as result of these specified diseases occurring at Ws
premises or within five miles of the boundary.
Ive carefully considered the points W has made. While a number of patients with the 
SARSCoV-2 virus might also have one of the specified diseases W is relying on, I dont think 
these diseases were a concurrent cause of Ws loss. In reaching that decision, Ive 
considered what was known about any links between Covid-19 and the other diseases at the 
time W closed its business premises.
W has provided a number of medical articles which indicate that many patients in hospitals
with SARS-CoV-2 also had a specified disease. However, of the ones that are dated, most
of these articles were published in April 2020 or later, so I dont think they indicate that the
actions of W, the public or the Government restrictions were based on cases of these other
diseases.
One of the articles dated 4 March 2020 comments on liver injury in Covid-19. However, its
commentary on how the liver can be affected by Covid-19 isnt enough to persuade me that
the restrictions were imposed due to the specified diseases covered by the policy.
Rather, in statements made by the UK Government, the Scottish Government and other
public officials at the time, the explanations provided for the restrictions pointed consistently
to concern about the outbreak of Covid-19, not these other diseases.
W has provided a letter from the NHS which confirms that there were occurrences of the
covered specified diseases alongside Covid-19 at its local hospital, which is within five miles
of its boundary. However, this letter also isnt enough to persuade me that any of the actions
taken by W, the public or the Scottish Government were as a result of these diseases.
I recognise that the Coronavirus Act 2020 and Coronavirus (Scotland) (No.2) Act 2020
refer to actions taken in response to SARS-CoV-2 but I think its reasonable to say that atthe time of the impact to Ws business, it was generally understood that SARS-CoV-2 was
the virus and Covid-19 was the disease which it caused. I say this because in the First
Ministers speech on 24 March, which announced the restrictions, she referred to taking
action in response to Covid-19 and not any other disease.
Given the circumstances at the time, and the announcements which were made, I think its
most likely that any action taken by W, the public, or the Scottish Government was in relation
to SARS-Cov-2 resulting in Covid-19, and not to any other disease which might also occur in
patients with SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, even though Covid-19 isnt specifically excluded by
the policy, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to find that Ws claim wasnt covered as I dont
think any specified diseases within five miles of Ws premises were a concurrent cause of its
loss.
I recognise that W believes that the judges comments in Rockliffe Hall support its view that
its claim should be paid because the judge said that, irrespective of how a disease is
caused, it is the disease itself that is covered. However, while I recognise the differences in
the arguments put forward by W and Rockliffe Hall, for the reasons set out above, this
doesnt change my view that the loss W experienced was caused by Covid-19, rather than
any of the covered diseases in its policy.
I think that the losses W incurred were as a result of Covid-19 and I think it was reasonable
for Aviva to say that the other specified diseases didnt contribute to its loss. And as Covid-
19 isnt one of the diseases covered by Ws policy, I believe Aviva acted fairly and
reasonably in turning down its claim.
Aviva didnt add any further comments in response to my provisional decision.
W disagreed with the outcome and provided a very detailed response. In summary W said:
The matter of whether its complaint should be upheld was already decided by the 
Supreme Court when it decided that where there was concurrent causation insurers 
couldnt deny a claim for an insured peril by introducing a concurrent uninsured peril 
arising from the same underlying cause. 
The Supreme Court ruled that the but for and equal or nearly equal test should not 
be applied to concurrent causes and that cover should be provided for both the 
insured and uninsured perils.
The underlying cause of both Covid-19 and the covered specified diseases is SARS-
CoV-2.
The FCAs Dear CEO letter following the Supreme Court judgment instructed 
insurers to pay claims. 
My provisional decision only addresses Avivas points and not Ws.
I havent addressed the Supreme Courts rulings and paras 191, 295 and 309 which 
means that my provisional decision is in direct conflict with the mandatory obligations 
of the Supreme Court judgment. 
The Supreme Court judgment said that where two concurrent perils have combined 
to bring about a loss both should be considered to have equal proximate effective 
cause. 
As Covid-19 and the covered diseases are both from the same underlying fortuity 
they should be treated as being an equal proximate cause. 
Therefore, the question Ive considered is whether Ws loss was as a result of these 
specified diseases occurring at Ws premises or within five miles of the boundary. is 
the wrong question as it sets up the covered diseases in competition with Covid-19 to 
decide which is the proximate cause. Instead, I should have considered whether the 
specified diseases in combination with Covid-19 bring about Ws losses even if those covered diseases werent necessary or sufficient to bring about the loss by 
themselves.
The scientific papers it provided demonstrates that some of the covered diseases 
occur in 70% of patients with SARS-CoV-2. 
What was known about the links between Covid-19 and the covered diseases in 
March 2020 is irrelevant as they should be treated as equal causes of the loss. 
Before reaching a final decision I sent the following email to W and a copy to Aviva. I have 
redacted the name for the purpose of this decision.  
I have given consideration to the points youve made and would like to provide further
clarification about why I dont think the Supreme Court judgment means that Ws claim 
should be paid.
As the Supreme Court explained in paragraph 168 of its judgment, the starting point for
the inquiry into whether Ws losses are covered by the policy is to identify by interpreting the 
policy and considering the evidence, whether a peril covered by the policy had any causal 
involvement in the loss and, if so, whether a peril excluded or excepted from the scope of the 
cover also had any such involvement. The Supreme Court then considered the position if 
there were two or more concurrent causes which were equally effective. The Supreme Court 
agreed with the Divisional Courts finding that all the cases of Covid-19 were equally 
effective causes of the government measures in March 2020 (paragraph 176).
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think that Ws losses were caused by cases
of Covid-19. The evidence which W has provided has not persuaded me that one or
more cases of Acute Encephalitis, Meningitis, Hepatitis and/or Dysentery was a
concurrent proximate cause of its losses, either acting alone or in combination with
cases of Covid-19. As a result, the only proximate cause(s) of Ws losses were perils
which were not covered by the policy.
I have considered the paragraphs of the judgment that W has referred to, but I dont think the 
Supreme Courts reasoning mean that just because a specified disease might be from the 
same underlying fortuity as Covid-19 then an insurer has to provide cover even if that 
disease hasnt contributed to the loss. It remains that I think one or more of the specified 
diseases would need to have been a concurrent cause in order for cover to be triggered 
under this clause. As I dont think the diseases were a concurrent cause then the reasoning 
of the Supreme Court doesnt apply.
I have also noted the points youve made about the FCA Dear CEO letter but I think this
only applies to valid claims. As such I dont think that Aviva is acting against the
directions of the FCA or the Supreme Court judgment.
W provided a further detailed response. Given that our service is set up to resolve 
complaints quickly and informally, Im not going to repeat every point W has made. In 
summary it said:
Paragraph 168 is only a starting point for the Supreme Courts analysis on causation 
and it continues for a further 21 paragraphs. Paragraphs 169-188 discuss the 
competing arguments pertaining to concurrent causation and multiple concurrent 
causation and concludes with the reasoning of Professor Wright at paragraph 189. 
At Paragraph 190 the court qualifies Professor Wrights argument by stating that in 
an insurance claim, no matter how trivial the contribution, judgements of fault or 
responsibility arent relevant, all that matters is the risk the insurer has agreed to 
cover. Paragraph 191 clarifies that no matter how trivial the contribution there is no minimal 
requirement of contribution for a cause to be recognised as a concurrent proximate 
cause, except what was agreed by the insurer and insured. 
It was agreed between W and Aviva that cover would be triggered by a single 
occurrence of an insured specified disease within five miles of the premises 
contracted by any party. 
The rulings of the Supreme Court define the law in this area and the rulings cant be 
amended by the introduction of additional criteria or be ignored by Aviva or others.
According to paragraph 191 W only needs to prove that the contribution by one of the 
covered diseases was greater than zero when combined with the other uninsured 
losses even if they wouldnt have brought about the loss by themselves.
My provisional findings do not dispute that the specified diseases were: present in 
Covid-19 patients; also caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus; occurred within the radius; 
were recorded as having occurred since the beginning of March; recognised by 
medical professionals as frequent and serious indicators of poor clinical outcomes in 
hospitalised Covid-19 patients. 
The fact that 100% of cases of the insured specified diseases arose from Covid-19 
doesnt negatively impact Ws claim as supported by the courts comments in 
Rockliffe Hall which said that it doesnt matter how the disease was brought about as 
it was the disease itself that is the key to cover under the Policy.
My suggestion that the insured specified diseases didnt contribute to Ws loss would 
require that none of the characteristics attributable to Covid-19 are also 
characteristics attributable to the insured diseases. For none of the characteristics of 
Covid-19 to apply to the covered diseases would require that the impact of the 
covered diseases on the public and medical profession would be zero. The 
contribution made by the covered diseases is irrefutably more than zero. 
As defined in paragraph 191 (of the Supreme Court judgment) the requirement is for 
the contribution: to be greater than zero; to have operated in combination with an 
uninsured cause to make the loss inevitable; be equal to or greater than one 
occurrence. The cause does not need to have been necessary or sufficient to bring 
about the loss by itself. 
The claim should not be declined on the basis that the loss would have resulted from 
the pandemic. 
My provisional decision does not dispute that SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes 
Covid-19 and that Covid-19 is the collective expression for the effects of the virus. 
W provided a detailed explanation of how SARS-CoV-2 impacts the body and said 70 
distinguishable diseases caused by the virus have been identified in patients with 
Covid-19. 
It wasnt the mild cases of Covid-19 that impacted the NHS or brought about the 
Government restrictions. It was the cases which caused more serious disruption to 
the body, including the cases of the covered diseases. 
The covered diseases existed in a significant number of patients with Covid-19. 
Logic (and the Venn diagram W provided to support this) requires that all cases of 
the covered diseases caused by SARS-CoV-2 arise with and continue to be a 
concurrent cause of Ws loss. 
At paragraph 176, the Supreme Court said that the Government measures were 
taken in response to information about ALL of the cases of Covid-19 in the country. 
Within these cases are the subset of cases with the specified diseases which 
occurred within the required radius. 
My suggestion that the Supreme Court cites Covid-19 specifically and exclusively the 
proximate cause of loss is incompatible with the actual wording of the judgment 
because at paragraph 212 the Supreme Court said We conclude that, on the proper     
interpretation of the disease clauses, in order to show that loss frominterruption of the insured business was proximately caused by one or more 
occurrences of illness resulting from COVID-19, it is sufficient to prove that the 
interruption was a result of Government action taken in response to cases of disease 
which included at least one case of COVID-19 within the geographical area
covered by the clause. 
The cases of the covered diseases within the area were illnesses resulting from 
Covid-19 which had occurred by the date of the Government action and were a 
separate and equally effective cause of that action.
There is no justification for Aviva to disregard the FCA instruction or not to apply the 
logic of the Supreme Court judgment. 
W said that it believes the information it has provided is enough to show that cover is 
triggered. However, if I believe that there is a matter or omission which would oblige 
an alternative interpretation that I advise of its precise nature, rather than a 
conclusion absent of any specifics, to allow W to provide a targeted response. 
 
W also provided further links to scientific articles which it believes supports its claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As in my provisional decision, I am not going to comment on every point made by W in this 
decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
This reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within it. 
W has said that my provisional findings do not dispute that Covid-19 is the collective 
expression for the effects of the virus. For clarity, I think that SARS-CoV-2 is the virus and 
Covid-19 is the disease. I say that because that it how it is described by the World Health 
Organisation on its website. 
W has also said that my provisional findings do not dispute that the specified diseases were: 
present in Covid-19 patients; also caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus; occurred within the 
radius; were recorded as having occurred since the beginning of March; recognised by 
medical professionals as frequent and serious indicators of poor clinical outcomes in 
hospitalised Covid-19 patients. I would like to make it clear that I am not reaching a finding 
on these points because I dont think they make a difference to the outcome of my decision. I 
say because even if I accepted the above points, Im still not persuaded that the covered 
diseases were a concurrent cause of Ws loss.
It is agreed that, when entering into the contract, Aviva agreed to cover W for loss resulting 
from any of the specified diseases in the policy occurring at Ws premises or within a five 
mile radius of it. This includes cover for Acute Encephalitis, Meningitis, Hepatitis and 
Dysentery. Therefore, when taking account of the logic of the Supreme Court, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to decide that an occurrence of one of the covered 
diseases contributed to Ws loss. And, on balance, I still dont think it did. Therefore the 
reasoning of the Supreme Court in relation to concurrent causes doesnt make a difference 
to Ws claim. 
In reaching this conclusion, I have considered the very detailed points W made about the 
impact of these covered diseases on the medical profession. However, Im not persuaded 
that in March 2020 the actions of W, the public or the Government were as a result of the 
covered diseases. I dont agree that the logic from my findings would require that none of the characteristics 
attributable to Covid-19 are also characteristics attributable to the insured diseases. This is 
because even if the other diseases did have an impact on the medical profession, Im still 
not persuaded that these diseases contributed to the actions taken by the Government, W or 
the public in March 2020. I think that the actions taken by the Government, W and the public 
were because of the impact of Covid-19 and the specified diseases werent a concurrent 
cause of this. 
W has provided persuasive evidence about the number of people with Covid-19 who also 
had covered diseases. Ive not been provided with anything from Aviva to dispute the 
scientific articles put forward. But even if a significant number of people did have both Covid-
19 and the other diseases by March 2020, I havent seen anything that persuades me that 
the actions of W, the public or the Government in March 2020 were due to those covered 
diseases. Rather, the UK Government and the First Minister both said that restrictions were 
being put in place because of Covid-19. They did not mention the covered diseases as a 
reason for implementing restrictions. 
I acknowledge Ws point that many people feared the impact of more serious symptoms or 
complications of Covid-19. But, for the reasons set out within my findings and my provisional 
decision, I still believe that actions taken in March 2020 were as a result of Covid-19 rather 
than the covered diseases and the covered diseases werent a concurrent cause of Ws loss. 
I have reviewed the scientific articles W provided but, as with the previous articles W 
provided, most of these are dated April 2020 or later. So I remain of the view that these 
articles dont indicate that the actions taken in March 2020 which led to Ws loss were as a 
result of the covered diseases.
W said my suggestion that the Supreme Court cites Covid-19 specifically and exclusively the 
proximate cause of loss is incompatible with the actual wording of the judgment 
because at paragraph 212 the Supreme Court said, We conclude that, on the proper     
interpretation of the disease clauses, in order to show that loss from interruption of the 
insured business was proximately caused by one or more occurrences of illness resulting 
from COVID-19, it is sufficient to prove that the interruption was a result of Government 
action taken in response to cases of disease which included at least one case of COVID-19 
within the geographical area covered by the clause.
W was referring to what I had said about paragraph 176 of the Supreme Court judgment. In 
that paragraph, the Supreme Court found that in the present case it obviously could not 
be said that any individual case of illness resulting from COVID-19, on its own, caused the 
UK Government to introduce restrictions which led directly to business interruption. 
However, as the court below found, the Government measures were taken in response to 
information about all the cases of COVID-19 in the country as a whole. We agree with the 
court below that it is realistic to analyse this situation as one in which all the cases were 
equal causes of the imposition of national measures. 
I think that the court decided that the Government measures were in response to all cases of 
Covid-19. However, I appreciate that court wasnt asked to consider whether any of the other 
covered diseases contributed. 
 
Ultimately, I havent seen sufficient contemporaneous evidence from March 2020 which 
indicates that the actions taken by W, the public or the Government were as a result of one 
or more of the covered diseases. So, as set out in my provisional findings, Im not persuaded 
that the losses W incurred were as a result of any of the specified diseases covered under 
the policy. Therefore, I remain of the view that Aviva acted fairly in declining Ws claim and I 
dont think Aviva ignored the findings of the Supreme Court or the directions of the FCA. W has asked for an opportunity to comment on any further points I disagree on. However, 
my decision remains substantially the same as my provisional decision and subsequent 
email and I think W and Aviva have had a reasonable opportunity to comment on my 
findings. So I dont think it is necessary for me to provide further comments to W before I 
reach a final decision. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered everything very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ws claim as it isnt covered under the 
policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman