DRN-4200727
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society opened the wrong type of 
account.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B opened a Triple Access account online. This account allows up to three 
withdrawals per year. However, Mrs and Mr B later discovered that Nationwide has opened 
a one-year Fixed-Rate Bond, which doesnt allow any withdrawals until the return of the 
money at the end of the one-year term. Mrs and Mr B werent happy about this, so they 
raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mrs and Mr B and explained that their records indicated that Mrs 
and Mr B had applied for the Fixed-Rate Bond themselves online. As such, Nationwide didnt 
feel that theyd done anything wrong. Mrs and Mr B werent satisfied with Nationwides 
response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt it was more likely that Mrs and 
Mr B had opened the Fixed-Rate Bond themselves by mistake. Mrs and Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr B are of the strong opinion that they didnt make any mistake when applying for 
the account online and that the account they applied for was a Triple Access account. 
Conversely, Nationwide contend that Mrs and Mr B applied online for a Fixed-Rate Bond and 
that as such the Fixed-Rate Bond wasnt opened by them in error.
In instances where the testimonies of a complainant party and a respondent business sit in 
contradiction to each other  as is the case in this instance  I must decide which of the two 
versions of events I feel it most likely to have taken place, on balance, and in consideration 
of all the information and evidence available to me. 
In this instance, Im not convinced that I need to make such a decision. And this is because, 
even if I accept that Nationwide did open the incorrect type of account for Mrs and Mr B, this 
newly opened account would have been visible to them from the point of opening as a Fixed-
Rate Bond, and not as a Triple Access account. 
As such, if this were the case, I feel that it should reasonably be expected that Mrs and Mr B 
would have noticed the wrong account type and would have contacted Nationwide about 
this. But Mrs and Mr B didnt do this, and instead placed a large sum of money into the 
(incorrect) account. And Nationwide have also confirmed that the Fixed-Rate Bond had a 14-
day cooling off period within which Mrs and Mr B could have closed the Fixed-Rate Bond 
account, had they wanted to do so.
Additionally, regarding the different positions of Mrs and Mr B and Nationwide here, Im not 
convinced that it is more likely that Nationwide made an error and opened the wrong type of 
account. Instead, I feel that the alternative  that Mrs and Mr B made a mistake and applied 
for the wrong account, is more likely to have occurred. And one reason for this is because I 
feel its unlikely that the wrong type of account would be opened in response to an online 
application, given that online account applications are a largely automated process which is 
directed by the inputs of the applicant party.
However, given Mrs and Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter, Im not willing to entirely 
discount the possibility that some form of system or human error has taken place here on the 
part of Nationwide  even thought I feel its unlikely that this is the case. 
But, as explained above, even if I accept that Nationwide did open the wrong account by 
mistake, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint. This is because I feel that Mrs and Mr B should 
reasonably have recognised that the wrong account had been opened and should have 
contacted Nationwide about it  within the 14-day cooling off period if necessary. And 
because Mrs and Mr B didnt do so, I feel its fair that the Fixed-Rate Bond should remain in 
place and that the terms of that account should continue to apply.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take 
any action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs and Mr B were wanting, but I hope 
that theyll understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman