DRN-3862125
The complaint
Miss P complains that Engage Mutual Funds Limited trading as OneFamily failed to make it 
clear that the funds in her Child Trust Fund (CTF) account would remain invested in stocks 
and shares after maturity. She also raises concern that a Yoti application was reset. 
What happened
Mrs P represents Miss P. Mrs P invested funds in a CTF for Miss P, with the aim of using the 
funds towards university fees. Two months before maturity OneFamily sent information 
about the options available to Miss P once she became 18 years of age. Mrs P, on behalf of 
Miss P, says it had not been understood that the funds would remain invested. Miss P 
thought the value of the fund at the date of maturity was in a holding account. Miss P was 
disappointed to discover that the value of the fund had reduced by the time she sought 
withdrawal. Miss P asks OneFamily to compensate her by honouring the value of the fund as 
at the date of maturity.
Further, Miss P complains that she followed the instructions to set up a Yoti feature in April 
2022, but when she tried to transfer the funds, the feature had to be reset, leading to delays.
OneFamily say that the options provided to Miss P were clear, fair and not misleading. As 
Miss P took no action the funds remained invested in stocks and shares. It was unfortunate 
that the value of the fund reduced between the date Miss P turned 18 years of age and the 
withdrawal date but the value of stocks and shares could go up and down. Further, 
OneFamily say that the Yoti feature was set up correctly but as Miss P did not use the 
function for six months, it required an identity check. But Miss P would have been able to 
click on to close the account.
Our investigator considered the complaint. Overall, he thought OneFamily hadnt done 
anything wrong. He highlighted that the terms and conditions of the account, required an 
instruction to be given from Miss P to cash in the account in order to make a withdrawal. Our 
investigator placed weight on the maturity pack sent two months before Miss P turned 18 
years of age which explained that if more time was required to make a decision then the 
money would be held,  . . .in the same way it always has. He thought it was clear that the 
funds would remain invested until a decision was made. 
Mrs P, on Miss Ps behalf, felt the outcome was unfair. She made it clear that the complaint 
was not about mis-sale but about the information provided at maturity. The communications 
from OneFamily ought to have been written in terms that were completely clear to customers 
with no investment knowledge. Also, the funds were not received in time as Miss P struggled 
to get access to them.
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that funds were invested in stocks and shares within this CTF. Ive taken 
into account the totality of information provided about the options at maturity for this CTF.
It doesnt appear to be disputed that OneFamily sent a brochure called unlock their 
potential, Their Child Trust Fund Next Steps around two months before Miss P reached 18 
years of age. The brochure explained that legal responsibility for the account would pass to 
the teen when they turned 18 years. Three core options were set out, namely, to continue 
saving, to spend a bit save a bit or to withdraw all the money. On the same page under the 
heading Not ready to decide, it said, But dont worry if they would like a bit more time to 
make up their mind, their account wont disappear. Instead, the money will be held in the 
same it always has, until a decision is made.
Ive seen that email correspondence was sent which again presented the available options 
and explained that at 18 years instructions could be given as to what Miss P wanted to do 
with the account. Its also clear from the original terms and conditions that an instruction 
would need to be given by Miss P to cash in the account to make a withdrawal.
Whilst I note weight was placed upon a phrase in an email,  . . . dont worry if you need 
some time, your money will be waiting for you when you want it,  I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable to consider this in isolation. There is nothing within the documents or in anything 
else that I have seen to suggest that the stocks and shares would be automatically cashed in 
and moved to a holding account when Miss P reached 18 years. Overall, on balance, I 
consider that clear, fair and not misleading information was provided about the options at 
maturity. 
I understand that Miss P hadnt expected the value of the fund to drop in the period between 
her turning 18 years of age to the time of giving an instruction for withdrawal, but I cant fairly 
say that any losses were caused by an error by OneFamily. The brochure also highlighted 
that  . .  the potential gains of investing in stocks and shares come with the risk that a 
market can fall as well as rise. .  It is unfortunate that external events impacted on the value 
of the fund, but in the absence of any instruction from Miss P, I dont think OneFamily did 
anything wrong in leaving the funds invested.
I note Miss P had set up the Yoti application in April 2022, an identification checker, in 
readiness to make a withdrawal. But I havent seen anything to show that OneFamily made 
an error when an application for withdrawal of funds in October 2022 was made. As the 
application had not been active for six months, a further check was required and OneFamily 
have confirmed that Miss P would have been able to close the account that day.
I dont underestimate the disappointment Miss P has suffered as a result of the value of her 
CTF reducing, but for the reasons given, I cant fairly hold OneFamily responsible for these 
losses.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss P, but I wont be upholding case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman