DRN-3672394
The complaint
Miss B complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on a
motorhome insurance policy.
Where I refer to Highway or the insurer, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I
include employees and others insofar as I hold Highway responsible for their acts or
omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a motorhome, first registered in about
the year 2000. For the year from April 2021, Miss B had the motorhome insured on a
comprehensive policy under which Highway was the insurer responsible for dealing with
claims.
Unfortunately, the motorhome suffered damage. Miss B contacted Highway on about 11
December 2021. Miss B wanted the insurer to get the motorhome repaired as soon as
possible so that she could use it.
She complained to Highway that it was responsible for poor service and delay in getting
repairs started.
By a final response dated early February 2022, Highway apologised for its service and said it
was sending Miss B £150.00.
Miss B brought her complaint to us a few days later. She asked for £1,500.00 compensation
for poor service and loss of use of the motorhome.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
offer of £150.00 was reasonable in relation to the delays and poor service.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss B   
and to Highway on 4 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Highway to pay Miss B
compensation for not being able to use her motorhome.
Highway was responsible for shortcomings in the communication with Miss B. It 
didnt keep her up to date. So she had to ask what was happening.
It was already a difficult situation for Miss B. Id weighed up the extra upset and
inconvenience Highway caused her by the delays and other shortcomings for which 
Id found it responsible. Highway tried to put that right by apologising and making an 
offer.
But I kept in mind the frustration and difficult telephone calls Miss B had between 
mid- December 2021 and early February 2022. Overall I concluded that £150.00 
wasnt enough to be fair and reasonable compensation. I was minded to find £300.00 
fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Miss B or from Highway, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Highway Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Miss B  in addition to the £150.00 it has already paid her  a further £150.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Miss B said she had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
Highway hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make a
complaint to the financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we
can investigate that complaint.
It follows that we can investigate acts or omissions about which the consumer complained
before the final response. In my view, we can also investigate the foreseeable
consequences of such acts or omissions even if those consequences unfold after the final
response.
Section Two of the policy terms dealt with damage to the vehicle. There were exceptions
including the following:
Exceptions to Sections Two and Three
We shall not be liable to pay for:

 Compensation for You not being able to use Your Vehicle, unless this is provided
as an extra benefit by this policy
I havent seen any evidence that the policy provided such compensation as an extra benefit.
Miss B already had a problem when she contacted Highway. Thats why she contacted
Highway. She needed to make a claim and that was always going to involve a level of
telephone calls and other inconvenience.
Highway didnt deal properly with appointing a repairer. Despite what Miss B had said, it
appointed a repairer that didnt specialise in repairing motorhomes. I accept Miss Bs
statement that Highway didnt recommend an alternative repairer and so appointed a
repairer she found on the internet. So I hold Highway responsible for the delay of about nine
days.Highway also appointed a vehicle assessor, who inspected the motorhome on 11 January
2022. Highway wasnt as proactive as it shouldve been in communicating with the repairer
about a detailed estimate. That caused another delay of about two weeks up to 27 January
2022, when Highway authorised the repairs.
In her complaint form dated 8 February 2022, Miss B said the following:
The repairs are commencing shortly and we are now advised by the repairer that as
a direct result of the delays caused by the claims service it will not be ready for
collection for at least a further 6 weeks. This is due to vehicle being now being further
back in the 'queue' This means we will have suffered loss of enjoyment for almost 5
months.
So the repairs hadnt started when Miss B complained to Highway or when it wrote its final
response. In any event, I dont think Miss B has complained about the performance of the
repairer. Rather she has complained that Highway delayed the start of work by the repairer.
In mid-June 2022 Miss B told us the following:
we suffered loss of use and enjoyment of our motor home for almost 6 months
purely down to the delays caused by their awful service
However, if the period of almost six months without the motorhome was caused purely by 
delays, then none of those six months wouldve been spent on doing the repairs. On 
reflection, Im sure Miss B would agree that, notwithstanding the delay in authorising the 
repairs, there would still have been a reasonable time to complete the repairs.
And I consider that Miss B bears the burden of showing that Highway was responsible for
her loss of use of the van for more than a reasonable time. I dont consider that she has
provided enough evidence of the programme of repairs to show such responsibility. In any
event, I keep in mind the policy exception quoted above.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Highway to pay Miss B compensation for not 
being able to use her motorhome.
Highway was responsible for shortcomings in the communication with Miss B. It didnt keep
her up to date. So she had to ask what was happening. I havent found it proportionate to
listen to all the call recordings. But Ive noted their number and length.
It was already a difficult situation for Miss B. Ive weighed up the extra upset and
inconvenience Highway caused her by the delays and other shortcomings for which Ive
found it responsible. Highway tried to put that right by apologising and making an offer.
But I keep in mind the frustration and difficult telephone calls Miss B had between mid-
December 2021 and early February 2022. 
Putting things right
Overall I conclude that £150.00 wasnt enough to be fair and reasonable compensation. I 
find £300.00 fair and reasonable. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Highway Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss B  in addition to the £150.00 it has
already paid her  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman