DRN-3856786
The complaint
Mr K had a loan with Everyday Lending Limited from June 2021. Mr K complains that 
interest applied to the loan account on 12 February 2022 ought not to have been added as 
the interest was meant to have been frozen from 30 November 2021. 
And Mr K was unhappy that the branch and head office were passing him from pillar to 
post. 
What happened
Mr K appears to have taken a loan with Everyday Lending in June 2021 for £1,250 and his 
monthly repayments were due to be £101.36 for 24 months. I have taken this from 
information Everyday Lending has said in correspondence. I have not seen a copy of the 
loan agreement. 
Mr K called the Financial Ombudsman Service on 15 March 2022 to complain about the 
interest being added when he thinks it ought to have been frozen. He sent us a Statement of 
Account which shows almost £487 interest was added on 12 February 2022. And he feels he 
was being pushed from pillar to post by Everyday Lending representatives. 
When one of our adjudicators approached Everyday Lending with Mr Ks recent approach to 
us in March 2022, it replied to say that it had already issued its final response letter (FRL) on 
6 September 2021. It sent to us a copy. It said this complaint was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman too late. 
That FRL reveals the complaint was made by Mr K in August 2021 and was about a 
manager being rude to him when he called it on 18 August 2021 to say that hed lost his job 
and needed assistance with the loan repayments. That FRL said it did not uphold his 
complaint. 
Later a new FRL was received by Mr K dated 20 May 2022, so after hed already contacted 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to start the complaint off. That addressed these points 
raised by Mr K:
1. You believe the interest on your account had been frozen in November 2021 
when you spoke to the branch manager on 9th March 2022.
2. You are unhappy that you are yet to receive the confirmation she promised 
regarding the interest being frozen and this is causing you unnecessary stress which 
is affecting your mental health.
3. You feel the branch staff have been unhelpful in managing your account after the 
change in your circumstances.
That May 2022 FRL upheld Mr Ks complaint in part  that part relating to the fact that he got 
no promised return call after November 2021. Mr K had wanted to be informed about the 
possibility of there being frozen interest. And Everyday Lending accepted that information 
Mr K was given over the telephone on 9 March 2022 (which was the next contact point) had 
been incorrect and had misled him. He was offered £100 as a distress and inconvenience 
payment. 
It appears that an email apology dated 4 April 2022 plus a new Statement of Account was 
sent to Mr K but I have not seen a copy of those items. And Mr K was informed that the 
account had defaulted on 29 March 2022. 
That part of the complaint where Mr K alleged that the branch had mis-managed the 
account, Everyday Lending had declined to uphold. It said that since Mr K had informed it of 
his change of circumstances in August 2021 (job loss) after which the account had been 
handled with forbearance which is what it said it was expected to do. 
As Mr K had already been in contact with us, one of our adjudicators looked at it all and 
made it clear that the part of the complaint about a manager being rude to Mr K when he 
called Everyday Lending on 18 August 2021 was not going to be something she could look 
at. That had been answered in the 6 September 2021 FRL and had not been referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in time for us to be able to take it forward. Mr K did not seem 
to be too concerned about that. So, this decision does not cover those issues raised by Mr K 
in the summer of 2021.
As for the second part of Mr Ks complaint which covers those points addressed in the 
May 2022 FRL then it was that part our adjudicator investigated. Our adjudicator did not 
think that Everyday Lending had treated Mr K fairly. She thought that the default ought to 
have been applied three months after the first missed payment which meant that it would 
have been able to freeze his interest at that point. Here  the promise to freeze the interest 
in November 2021 was not carried out and the default was applied on 29 March 2022. Our 
adjudicator sought to resolve the complaint by indicating this: 
For the reasons given above I am asking that you remove any interest that was 
applied to Mr Ks account after the third month of missed or had a reduced payment. 
Due to the stress that situation is likely to have had on Mr K I am also asking that you 
pay him £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr K thought this was a fair outcome and provided us with his bank account details for the 
£250 payment to be paid into. Everyday Lending did not reply and so the unresolved 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Lending has accepted that it got it wrong by not calling Mr K back between 
November 2021 and March 2022. It also seems to have accepted that in March 2022 Mr K  
had not received the information he ought to have done and it has mentioned an apology 
email dated 4 April 2022. I have not seen that. 
I have received one recorded call from Everyday Lending in which the Newport branch 
representative refers to dates in August 2021 and so from that it seems that call was one in 
August 2021. Discussions were had between Mr K and that representative about how much 
to pay. It does appear that Mr K agreed to pay around £50 at the end of each month starting 
end of August 2021. The one Statement of Account I have seen does reflect that Mr K had paid around that sum each month from the end of August 2021 until 31 January 2022. I have 
seen no further records since then. 
The outstanding issues appear to be that Mr K says that the branch staff have not managed 
his account well since he told them of his change of circumstances in August 2021. And 
Mr K is not happy that there has been interest added when he was led to believe that 
interest was going to be frozen from November 2021. Its not entirely clear why this date was 
chosen. It may have been a review date.  
My finding in relation to the way that Everyday Lending has approached Mr Ks account 
since he told them of his change of circumstances is that they have shown forbearance. It is 
a requirement under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) CONC chapter 7 that Everyday 
Lending had to treat Mr K fairly and with due consideration and forbearance. That can 
include actions such as accepting token payments, advising him to get advice, and even 
though he was not able to show it any bank statements with a new salary or any Universal 
Credit payments, still it was content to accept the informal payment arrangement starting in 
August 2021. 
And Mr K had mentioned in his telephone call in August 2021 with a representative from the 
Everyday Lending Newport branch that he was applying for a PIP payment which 
demonstrated to the representative that he may have been in the vulnerable category. 
And as Everyday Lending has agreed in the May 2022 FRL that it ought to have been in 
contact with him between November 2021 and March 2022 then I agree  it ought to have 
been and Everyday Lending has tried to put that right with an apology email (I have not 
seen) and an offer of £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
I think that £100 was rather low and what our adjudicator has suggested of £250 is about 
right. I can see that Mr K telephoned Everyday Lending several times after receiving the 
statement of account in February 2022 and still did not get any answers for several weeks 
until April 2022. Mr K has explained that he has mental health and anxiety issues and I do 
appreciate that this was likely an exacerbating factor for him. So, the £250 award to Mr K 
seems fair.  
As for the position surrounding the addition of interest and the date of the default, I have 
seen no documentation about the default. Everyday Lending has said that the account 
defaulted on 29 March 2022. 
I have no information about whether Mr K stopped paying the informal payment arrangement 
repayments. So, I do not know the rationale as to why it was that Everyday Lending felt it 
was right to default the account on 29 March 2022. And I do not consider that Mr Ks 
complaint is about the default. And so I make no findings on it.
I can understand the reason Everyday Lending was content to accept the reduced payments 
as Mr Ks circumstances seems to fall into the category envisaged in the Guidance to 
chapter 7 of CONC 7.3.4  namely CONC 7.3.5 G (3): 
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one 
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances: 
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow 
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who 
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able 
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expensesApart from the August 2021 recorded call I have listened to in which Mr K explained that he 
had no job and was now living with family members who were content to give him a small 
amount of cash for odd jobs around their house, then Ive seen no evidence about Mr Ks 
circumstances in or around March 2022. 
I can understand that Mr K feels aggrieved that £487 of interest was applied to the account 
in February 2022, but by then Everyday Lending had been accepting token and small 
payments from Mr K since August 2021 which was about six months. I dont think that, in 
usual circumstances, Everyday Lending had necessarily done anything wrong by adding in 
that interest as it likely accorded with the credit agreement he had with it. 
But where Everyday Lending has gone wrong when dealing with Mr Ks financial difficulties 
and issues, was the total lack of communication with him since November 2021. So, to add 
that interest with no warning, no attempt to obtain any up-to date information from Mr K such 
as carrying out a formal income and expenditure assessment or asking Mr K what his 
current position was, does seem to be wrong.
Mr K does not appear to have complained about the imposition of the default. I have no 
information or any records relating to it and so I make no findings about it. Ive no evidence 
that Mr K had fallen behind in the informal repayment arrangement. But I do think that the 
£487 interest applied on 12 February 2022 should be removed from his loan account. The 
default is a different matter and not one that forms part of this complaint. And even if it did 
I do not think that I can come to any conclusions about it. 
So, I reach the same outcome as that reached by our adjudicator but I have gone into more 
detail and not addressed the correctness or otherwise of the default applied in March 2022. 
I am aware that there will remain an outstanding balance due from Mr K to Everyday 
Lending. And so I recommend that it continues with its forbearance approach and that Mr K 
engages with Everyday Lending in relation to his current employment and/or income 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
I direct that Everyday Lending does as follows:
- remove the £486.29 interest added on 12 February 2022 from the account and
- pay to Mr K a distress and inconvenience payment of £250 for lack of communication 
and no explanation relating to the interest on the account. 
- Arrange with Mr K a mutually suitable repayment plan for the loan balance due. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited soes as I have outlined above.                    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman