DRN-3930808
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made 
for flood damage to their home.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr and Mrs Hs property was damaged by flood and 
they made a successful claim through their home insurance provider  Fairmead.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim and contractors to repair 
Mr and Mrs Hs home. This was estimated to take between four and six months. Fairmead 
also arranged for Mr and Mrs H, and their family, to be placed into alternative 
accommodation while the claim was handled. But due to issues with availability in their local 
area, Mr and Mrs H ended up in alternative accommodation around 40 miles from their 
home.
Mr and Mrs H raised several issues with Fairmeads handling of their claim, including the 
quality of repair works carried out by its contractor and the overall time taken to progress 
their claim and repair their home. Fairmead accepted that the service Mr and Mrs H had 
received had fallen short and offered around £750 compensation. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
accept this offer and instead brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said the 
claim had taken too long to resolve and Mr and Mrs H had been left isolated in 
accommodation many miles from home for an unnecessarily long period of time, due to 
issues which Fairmead and its agents were responsible for. She recommended Fairmead 
should increase the compensation to £1,000.
Fairmead accepted our investigators assessment, but Mr and Mrs H didnt. They didnt 
agree that £1,000 was sufficient to cover the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered. 
They also said Fairmead had yet to fully reimburse the additional costs theyd incurred as a 
result of the claim, such as energy bills at their home address while they were covering 
these at the alternative accommodation, and additional fuel expenses as a result of being so 
far from Mr Hs work and their home.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Having considered Mr and Mrs Hs argument about costs, I was minded to reach a different 
outcome to our investigator. So, I wrote to the parties to informally share my thoughts on a 
fair resolution to this complaint.
In terms of the compensation for distress and inconvenience, I said I was minded to agree 
with our investigator that £1,000 was fair and reasonable.
However, I explained that our service wouldnt expect policyholders to be left out of pocket 
as a result of a claim and that we have a well-established approach to, what we refer to as, 
disturbance allowance  which is the reasonable additional costs incurred as a result of a 
policyholder being away from their home due to a claim.
In the circumstances here, I said I was minded to decide that Fairmead should reimburse the 
costs Mr and Mrs H had incurred at their home address, while they were also paying for the 
same at the alternative accommodation, and that it should add 8% simple interest from the 
point they were out of pocket to the point they were reimbursed.
I also said Fairmead should reimburse the additional fuel expenses Mr and Mrs H could 
evidence theyd incurred as a result of being in alternative accommodation. Or, if they 
werent able to evidence these costs, that it should pay Mr and Mrs H £10 per day from the 
point they were placed into alternative accommodation until the date they returned to their 
property  to cover the costs incurred by Mr H in having to drive to and from work during this 
period. And that it should pay a further £10 per day from the point it cash settled the claim  
to cover Mrs Hs costs in having to regularly return to their home to manage the remaining 
works.
Fairmead responded to my proposed approach and confirmed it broadly agreed. But it said 
its loss adjuster had requested evidence of the additional utility costs on several occasions, 
which was never received. So, it didnt agree it was fair for it to pay interest on those 
amounts for the entire period I proposed.
Mr and Mrs H also responded and were broadly happy with my proposed approach. 
However, Mrs H highlighted that she was required to drive back to their local area on 
multiple occasions for appointments with Fairmeads agents and for other personal 
appointments. She provided the dates of these appointments/meetings and asked that the 
£10 per day be paid for those dates, in addition to what I had already suggested.
Mr and Mrs H said it wasnt clear from what date the second £10 per day would be paid 
from. They said they thought it should be from 23 March 2021 as they needed to regularly 
drive back to their local area following the relaxing of COVID restrictions so that their 
children could see their friends. And, because it was around that time that Fairmead 
proposed cash settling the claim.
I shared Mr and Mrs Hs response with Fairmead and it said it was happy to meet the 
additional fuel costs proposed by Mr and Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my correspondence with the parties 
surrounding the additional cost elements.
I should be clear here that this complaint focuses solely on the handling of Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, and the additional costs they incurred as a result. Ill not be commenting on the overall 
claim decision, or the claim settlement paid.
As Ive shared my thoughts with both sides, and allowed them to provide comments in 
response, Im moving ahead with my final decision.Utility costs
Mr and Mrs H say they were paying utility bills and council tax at both their home address 
and the alternative accommodation address. They say Fairmead has only partially 
reimbursed them for this.
When sharing my thoughts on this with Fairmead, I explained that I would expect it to 
reimburse the costs Mr and Mrs H incurred at one of the addresses (typically their home 
address) and that it should add 8% simple interest, from the date they were out of pocket to 
the date they are reimbursed, to compensate them for being deprived of the use of that 
money for other purposes.
In response, Fairmead said it had confirmed to Mr and Mrs H that their costs would be 
reimbursed, subject to evidence being provided and that it had chased them for information 
about their costs on several occasions. Fairmead said it was unfair for it to be penalised, in 
the form of the interest award, when it would have reimbursed those costs much sooner, had 
it been provided with the evidence it requested.
I asked Fairmead to provide evidence of these communications and chaser emails which it 
has. This shows that on 4 January 2022, the loss adjuster asked Mr and Mrs H for 
information regarding any outstanding costs. Fairmead said no information was received 
until very recently  following my email.
However, Mr and Mrs H have said they werent initially informed, by the loss adjuster, that 
they could reclaim additional utility or council tax costs. They only discovered they could 
when they sought to raise a complaint in May 2021. At this stage they say they were 
informed by Fairmead that it could reimburse these costs, and so they provided the loss 
adjuster with evidence of their energy, water and council tax bills in June 2021.
Mr and Mrs H have now provided our service with evidence of the emails they sent to the 
loss adjuster in June 2021. Based on this, and having carefully considered what theyve 
said, Im persuaded on balance that they would have provided this evidence sooner than 
June 2021, had they been made aware they would be able to reclaim these costs when they 
were first moved into the alternative accommodation.
So, taking the above into account, I remain of the view that Fairmead should reimburse the 
costs Mr and Mrs H incurred at their home address, and that it should pay 8% simple interest 
on the amounts owed to them, from the dates they were out of pocket to the date they are 
reimbursed. 
Fuel costs
In order to fairly reimburse the reasonable additional fuel costs Mr and Mrs H incurred, 
Fairmead has now confirmed its agreement with the following:
To pay Mr and Mrs H £10 per day from the date they were moved into alternative 
accommodation to the date they returned to their property  to cover Mr Hs 
reasonable additional fuel costs.
This is because the alternative accommodation was around 40 miles from Mr and Mrs Hs 
home address and Mr Hs work. Mr H was required to frequently travel to work throughout 
the period they were in alternative accommodation. So, it is fair that Fairmead should cover 
the additional fuel expenses from the point they first moved into alternative accommodation.Mr and Mrs H are understandably unable to evidence the actual additional fuel costs they 
incurred over the full period of the claim. So, in the absence of that evidence, Fairmead will 
pay £10 per day, which is in line with our services typical approach in these circumstances.
To pay Mr and Mrs H a further £10 per day from 23 March 2021 to the date they 
returned to their property  to cover Mrs Hs reasonable additional fuel costs.
This is because Mrs H wasnt required to regularly travel back to their area until this point. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to expect Fairmead to pay an additional £10 per day for Mrs H for the 
entire period. Instead, Mrs H has explained that from this point, following the relaxing of 
social distancing restrictions, she was making regular trips back to their area so that her 
children could see friends. And that it wasnt long after this time that Fairmead made it clear 
it was intending to cash settle the claim, so Mrs S was starting to make arrangements for 
repairs. 
Pay a further £200 to cover £10 per day, for Mrs H, for meetings and appointments in 
their local area, she needed to attend prior to 23 March 2021.
In the circumstances, I think the above provides a fair and reasonable resolution to this part 
of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Compensation
Mr and Mrs Hs claim ought to have been resolved within around six months. But it took 
around 18 months due to delays and poor workmanship on the part of Fairmeads 
contractor. 
The above issues meant that Mr and Mrs H, and their family, were left in alternative 
accommodation, a significant distance from their home, for far long than they initially 
understood or accepted they would be. This had an understandable impact on them all.
Further to this, and the frustration caused by the areas of poor workmanship, they also had 
the added inconvenience of then having to take over the works themselves when the claim 
was eventually cash settled. 
Ive carefully considered the full timeline of events, and everything Mr and Mrs H have said 
about how their family has been impacted by Fairmeads mistakes. Taking everything into 
account, I think £1,000 is sufficient to fairly compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered. And when combined with the awards highlighted in the 
above sections, I think the total amount to be paid is sufficient to fairly resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
Reimburse the outstanding utility and council tax costs Mr and Mrs H can evidence 
and pay 8% simple interest* to the amounts they are due, from the dates they were 
out of pocket, to the date they are reimbursed.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £10 per day from the date they were moved into alternative 
accommodation to the date they returned to their property  to cover Mr Hs 
reasonable additional fuel costs.Pay Mr and Mrs H a further £10 per day from 23 March 2021 to the date they 
returned to their property  to cover Mrs Hs reasonable additional fuel costs.
Pay a further £200 to cover £10 per day, for Mrs H, for meetings and appointments 
she needed to attend prior to 23 March 2021.
Pay Mr and Mrs H £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman