DRN-3317696
The complaint
Mr B complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined his claim for the theft of his 
caravan. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr Bs caravan was stolen from a caravan park. He made a claim for its 
loss on his AXA caravan insurance policy. 
In November 2021 AXA wrote to Mr B to say it had declined his claim. It gave two grounds 
for its decision. It said the caravan wasnt in use at the time of the theft. It explained the 
policy only covers theft, in those circumstances, from Mr Bs home address or his agreed 
storage site. In addition it said the policy terms required a wheel clamp and hitch lock to be 
in place  but only the former was in place at the time of the loss. 
In November 2021 AXA responded to Mr Bs complaint. It said theft of a caravan when its 
not secured via a hitch lock is excluded by the terms of the policy. It still refused to pay the 
claim. Mr B wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says the caravan would still have 
been stolen even if a hitch lock had been fitted. So he thinks AXAs decision is 
unreasonable. He wants his claim settled. 
In January 2021 our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt feel AXAs decision to 
decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable. She didnt recommend it pay the claim or do 
anything differently. Mr B didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXAs referred to the following exclusions to refuse the claim:
We will not pay for:
Theft or loss or damage to the Caravan, Contents,.while the Caravan is In Use, and 
Unattended unless a Wheel Clamp and Hitch lock, or Security Devices otherwise agreed 
and shown in Schedule are actively in place at the time of the incident 
and
Theft of or loss or damage to the Caravan, Contents  while the Caravan is Not in Use 
unless: i. it is kept at Your Home or at a Storage Address You have told Us about; and ii. All 
Security Devices are actively in place at the time of the incident.  
Security Devices is defined by the policy as the those listed in Mr Bs schedule. That 
document lists wheel clamp and hitch lock.
In use is defined by the terms as when Mr B or his family are using or visiting the caravan 
for holiday purposes or when its attached to a towing vehicle. The policy states it includes 
the 24-hour period immediately prior to and following Mr B or his family returning from or 
visiting the caravan for holiday purposes. Not in use is defined as when the caravan is in 
storage at the storage address or when the caravan is not going to be in use.
The theft occurred more than 24 hours after Mr B had left it unattended at a caravan park to 
go on a short notice trip abroad. So it seems it wasnt in use as defined by the policy terms, 
meaning it was not in use.  
However, the policy excludes theft, when the caravan is in use or not in use, where a 
wheel clamp and hitch lock arent in place at the time of the loss. So regarding the lack of 
hitch lock, it doesnt make a difference whether the caravan is considered to be in use or 
not in use at the time of loss. 
Mr B accepts the caravan didnt have a hitch lock at the time of the theft. However he feels 
thats immaterial. He explains the caravan was on a secure site. He says as the thieves got 
the wheel clamp off, they would have been able to remove a hitch lock if fitted. So hes 
certain the caravan would have been stolen anyway.
Ive considered what Mr B says, but Im not persuaded its obvious the theft would have 
happened anyway if a hitch lock was in place. Theres nothing that makes me think his 
caravan was specifically targeted  so would have been taken regardless of its security 
devices. 
The thieves towed the caravan away, presumably using a tow bar. I think if a hitch lock had 
been fitted it would most likely have made a theft more difficult. The thieves may have had 
the facilities to remove it. But doing so would have involved time, additional effort and the 
risk of any noise involved attracting attention. So the thieves may well have targeted a less 
secure caravan instead. 
Finally Im satisfied AXA took reasonable steps to make Mr B aware of the security devices 
he was required to fit. They are listed under a bold heading on the second page of his policy 
schedule. Overall I cant say AXAs decision to refuse the claim was unfair or unreasonable. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr B, but that means Im not going to require it to pay 
the claim or do anything differently.       My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr Bs claim or 
do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman