DRN-4041040
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr K is represented by a firm Ill refer to as C. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2021 Mr K was the victim of a crypto scam. Mr K made two transfers to a trading account 
wallet in his own name with a legitimate crypto exchange platform. These funds were then 
exchanged into a crypto and sent to the scammer - a firm Ill refer to as F. Mr K sent the 
crypto to F under the belief he would receive a daily return of 1% on his investment. 
The relevant payments are:
Date Amount
24 May 2021 £10
24 May 2021 £15,500
Total: £15,510
Mr K became aware hed been scammed about two months later when the scam came to 
light in the media  the owner of F hadnt invested the money but kept it for himself, before 
later being arrested. Mr K contacted Santander in June 2022 about the scam payments but 
was told they werent liable for his loss. Santander did however recover £31.59, and so 
Mr Ks total loss was £15,478.41.
In September 2022 C complained to Santander on Mr Ks behalf about what happened. In 
short, they said:
Mr K was motivated to invest as a way of being able to leave his current job. A work 
colleague told him about F and that a minimum $20,000 was required to invest. This 
friend explained that the investment would return $200 per day, and so the $20,000 
would be returned in a few months. And that he would receive a $1,000 bonus and 
higher investment returns for referring him. The friend and his wife  amongst others 
Mr K knew and trusted - had also invested with F. 
Before investing, Mr K searched the crypto exchange platform online and found it to 
be register with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He also found Fs website, 
which explained how the investment worked and featured live graphs of currency 
exchange markets, to be professional. The website included a live chat function 
allowing clients to get one to one advice, as well as positive reviews from existing 
investors.
F also had a strong online presence on social media websites  with online 
investment videos and live conferences run by the owners which allowed Mr K to 
listen to other clients questions and ask any he had himself. Although he had limited 
direct contact with F, Mr K found them to be very professional and knowledgeable. 
And so, he found F to be a well-structured organisation. 
To fund the investment, Mr K took out an £11,000 loan three days prior to making the 
payments. He said the loan was for home improvements.
When Mr K made the £15,500 payment he was contacted by Santander and 
questioned about whether hed been forced to make the payment and if he wanted to 
proceed. Mr K explained the payment was for investment purposes and hed been 
invited, and not forced, into doing so. But while Santander gave him a very brief 
warning that investing in crypto is dangerous, this wasnt adequate. Santander ought 
to have protected Mr K by asking more probing questions regarding the payment and 
had this happen, he wouldnt have continued with making it.
Mr K hadnt previously sent a large payment to a new payee for crypto purposes and 
so this shouldve been seed as a red flag. Santander failed to inform Mr K of the 
risks of investing with an online company and the likelihood of investment scams. 
And so, he wasnt given an effective scam warning.
To settle this complaint, Mr K would accept full reimbursement of the monies lost
Santander rejected the complaint. They said the payments werent covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as Mr K still had control of the funds when it left 
his Santander account. And so, they reiterated that they wouldnt be liable for the loss of 
funds. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Santander had to do anything further. She said it was reasonable for Santander to have 
flagged Mr Ks £15,500 payment for further checks as it wasnt in line with his normal 
account activity. Santander have said there wouldve been a discussion about the payment 
which correlates with Mr Ks testimony that he was warned about the risk of investing in 
crypto. Unfortunately, however, the call between Mr K and Santander isnt available and so 
she couldnt be sure what was discussed.
Our Investigator considered whether Mr K wouldve proceeded with making the payment if 
Santander had asked appropriate and relevant questions. And she thought Mr K would have 
gone head with it as it was a friend, whod invested himself, that introduced him to the 
opportunity. Mr K had also attended live conferences, watched investment videos and found 
Fs website professional. Because of this, she thought Mr K wouldve considered it a 
legitimate opportunity and, even if Santander raised further enquiries, Mr K wouldnt have 
found anything to suggest it was a scam at the time. 
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve added:
Its unreasonable to assume Santander must have discussed the payment with Mr K 
before deciding to put the payment through. And without call recordings or adequate 
noted information from the bank detailing the conversation, it cannot be said the 
conversation was effective in satisfying the bank Mr K wasnt falling victim to financial 
harm. Its probable Santander did discuss crypto as this is a basic conversation within the 
banks processes. But it cannot be proved that any fraud, scam or financial crime 
mitigation took place as per banking industry standard procedures. 
This outcome is not fair or reasonable as there isnt proof an effective warning took 
place in the telephone call. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM code only applies to 
payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Mr K made were 
sent to accounts he held in his own name with a crypto exchange platform, theyre not 
covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Santander should 
reimburse Mr K under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr K knowingly made the payments from his Santander account. I appreciate Mr K was 
tricked by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr K. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Santander are expected to process 
the payments and Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Santander to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Here, Im aware that Santander held the £15,500 payment and spoke with Mr K before 
releasing it. I think this was appropriate as, having looked at Mr Ks typical account usage, 
the payment was out of character. There isnt unfortunately any recording or notes available 
for this call. Because of this, I cant be sure what was discussed at the time.
Santander has explained there wouldve been some discussion with Mr K about the 
payment. And this is consistent with Mr Ks testimony in which hes told us that Santander 
did warn him about the risk of investing in crypto, as well as checking that he wasnt being 
forced to make the payment and wanted to proceed in sending it. C however say Santander 
failed to adequately question Mr K about the investment and so they missed the opportunity 
to provide an effective warning that the investment could be a scam. And they argue that, 
had this happened, Mr Ks loss couldve been prevented.
I accept, as C has pointed out, that I cant say with any certainty how effective Santanders 
conversation with Mr K was in the absence of a call recording. Or whether they asked 
appropriate questions about the payment to allow them to provide Mr K with suitable 
warnings about the risk of investing in crypto (rather than the brief warning Mr K says he 
received). Its therefore possible that Santanders additional checks regarding the payment 
werent appropriate. That however, in itself, doesnt mean Santander is responsible for Mr 
Ks loss. But rather, I must consider whether Mr K wouldve likely proceeded to make the payment had Santanders conversation with Mr K included appropriate additional checks 
along with suitable warnings given.
After giving this careful thought, had this happened, I think its most likely Mr K wouldve 
proceeded with making the payment. Ill explain why.
I think appropriate questioning by Santander wouldve uncovered that Mr K was being 
offered high returns by F to invest in crypto - which is known to be prevalent with scams 
currently. This, in my view, ought to have given Santander reason to think Mr K was at risk of 
financial harm. And so, Santander ought to have enquired about what checks Mr K had 
undertaken to ensure Fs legitimacy.  At which point, I consider it likely that Mr K wouldve 
explained it was a work colleague that had introduced him to the opportunity of investing 
through F. And this friend, as well as others he knew, had invested with F, likely reassuring 
Mr K it was a genuine investment firm. 
Mr K wouldve also likely explained that hed researched the crypto exchange platform, 
finding it was registered with the FCA, and considered F to be a well-structured organisation. 
This was through their professional website, which included positive reviews from existing 
investors, and them providing investment guidance via online videos and conferences (which 
I understand he attended). Further, Mr K had found F to be both professional and 
knowledgeable in the contact hed had with them. 
Upon being told this, I think Santanders concerns about the possibility of Mr Ks payment 
being in relation to a scam wouldve been somewhat alleviated. That said, while crypto 
investment opportunities arent all scams, I consider there wouldve been sufficient reason 
for Santander to suggest to Mr K that he may wish to carry out further checks before 
proceeding. This couldve included searching the internet for independent reviews of F. 
From what Ive seen though, it seems there wasnt anything online at the time Mr K made 
the payment which indicated F wasnt a legitimate firm or the investment opportunity was a 
scam. And so, even if Santander had given a more effective warning to Mr K and asked him 
to carry out further checks, Im not persuaded this wouldve deterred him from making the 
payment. 
Santander contacted the receiving bank when Mr K informed them hed been scammed, and 
they were able to recover £31.59. Im satisfied Santander acted appropriately in this regard. 
Im sorry that Mr K has been the victim of what appears to be a sophisticated and 
professional scam. And I want to reassure him that I dont underestimate the impact this has 
had on him, particularly as I realise he is left in a position whereby he has the outstanding 
loan to repay. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mr K will be hoping for, I dont think 
Santander has acted unfairly by not refunding his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman