DRN-3976321
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him fee-paying 
Additions, Additions Active and Premier Life packaged accounts in March 2006, November 
2008 and May 2009 respectively.
Mr C also says that Barclays mis-sold him fee-paying Travel Plus, Home and Tech Packs, 
that were added to his account in November 2015.
What happened
Barclays says that Mr C had complained too late about the sale of his packaged accounts. 
One of our ombudsmen considered what Mr C and Barclays had provided us with, and they 
concluded that Mr C had complained too late about the sale of his Additions Active and 
Premier Life accounts for our service to be able to consider those parts of the complaint.
An adjudicator then went on to assess whether the Additions account and the Packs were 
mis-sold. They concluded they hadnt been. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2023 and explained why I was minded to partly 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it 
forms part of this decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Cs complaint in 
part. I will explain why.
Additions account
Mr C says that he attended a Barclays branch to discuss re-mortgaging his property. 
He says that the person he spoke to led him to believe that by agreeing to the 
Additions account, this would improve his chances of his mortgage application being 
approved.
Having considered everything provided, I think that what Mr C has said is likely to 
have happened. Mr C has provided evidence to show that he did arrange to re-
mortgage with Barclays in March 2006, therefore I think that his explanation that hed 
only approached Barclays to discuss his mortgage was the case.
Furthermore, Mr C has also said that one of the reasons why he re-mortgaged his 
property was to release some equity in his property. Mr C says that he did this so he 
could use the funds to consolidate his finances. This included clearing his overdraft. 
And I can see that a large deposit was made into his account on 19 April 2006, and it 
seems that Mr Cs account remained largely in credit until September 2006, at which 
point Mr C did start using the overdraft more frequently.
Looking at everything that Mr C has said, and what the account provided at the time, 
it seems the main benefit of the account that Mr C could potentially have benefited 
from was the £250 interest free overdraft facility (and preferential interest rate on 
balances above this amount). However, given that Mr C was intending to clear his 
overdraft with the money from his property (and the bank statements show he did do 
this shortly after the upgrade), it seems unlikely that he would agree to pay £10 a 
month for something that he was not intending (in March 2006 at least) on using 
going forwards.
So when considering all of the evidence, I think that Mr Cs recollections of events 
are persuasive. In my view, it does seem more likely that Mr C agreed to the 
Additions account in the mistaken belief that it would somehow help his mortgage 
application be approved  rather than because he was attracted to the benefits of the 
account. And had it been made clear that upgrading would in fact have no impact on 
his mortgage application, looking at Mr Cs circumstances and what the account 
offered at the time, I dont think its likely he wouldve agreed to it.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think that the Additions account 
was likely to have been mis-sold.
Travel Plus, Home and Tech Packs
In January 2015, Barclays wrote to Mr C to say that it had changed the eligibility 
criteria for its Premier Life account. The letter explained that Mr C will no longer 
qualify for the Premier Life account (or Premier banking) and explained that his 
account would therefore be changed to a standard fee-free current account. The 
letter did say however that he would be able to continue to receive similar benefits 
though the Barclays Feature store packs, and said it will be in contact with further 
details.
Barclays then wrote to Mr C on 10 August 2015 to confirm that his account would be 
changed to a fee-free current account on 6 November 2015. It also explained that to 
ensure he continues to receive similar benefits to the Premier Life account, his 
account included fee-paying Travel Plus, Home and Tech Packs. The letter 
summarised what was included with the Packs, how they differed to what he received 
under the Premier Life account and also explained that Mr C could opt out of the 
Packs (either individually or all of them), if he no longer needed the cover they 
provided. The letter said Mr C should get in contact by 23 October 2015, if he wanted 
to opt out of adding any of the Packs on his account.
Mr C says he was under the impression, because of what had gone before, that 
having such Packs would put him in a better place to get preferential treatment from 
Barclays.
Ive considered what Mr C has said, but Im unable to say that the Packs that were 
added to Mr Cs account were mis-sold. I say this because nothing in the letter 
implies that Mr C would be treated any differently by having the Packs on his 
account. In fact, I think its quite the opposite. The letters made it clear that he was no 
longer able to have access to Barclays Premier banking services. So I think it was 
clear that any preferential treatment Mr C mayve previously enjoyed as a result of 
being a Premier banking customer would come to an end once the migration of his 
account had completed.
Furthermore, the letters made it clear that Mr C didnt have to have any of the Packs 
added to his account if he didnt want them and that he could opt out of them (and 
provided him with the relevant contact details if he wanted to do so).
The letters also made it clear the Packs were only being added to his account as a 
way to continue providing Mr C with similar benefits that hed previously received as a result of having the Premier Life account. As the Packs were offered essentially to 
replicate the benefits that Mr C was already paying for, Barclays was able to do this 
on an opt out, rather than opt in basis  providing it gave Mr C plenty of notice to 
consider his options. And looking at the dates of the letters and when the migration 
actually took place, I think that Barclays did provide Mr C with plenty of time in which 
to consider his options.
Finally, I note that a reason why Mr C believes the Packs to be mis-sold is because 
he says he already had travel insurance cover elsewhere. Mr C says that the 
existence of travel insurance on the account mayve prevented him from being able 
to claim on another policy.
In response to this point, the migration letter made it clear that his account would 
include travel insurance under the Travel Plus Pack from November 2015. So I cant 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible if Mr C ended up with duplicate cover after the 
migration because Mr C chose not to opt out of the Travel Plus Pack. I would also 
add that having duplicate travel insurance policies would not restrict Mr C from being 
able to make a claim on his other policy, if he needed to do so.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the Packs that were added 
to Mr Cs account were mis-sold.
Putting matters right
Had Mr C been provided with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
Additions account, I dont think it is likely that he wouldve agreed to upgrade to the 
Additions account in March 2006.
I am therefore currently minded to instruct Barclays to:
Refund the Additions account fees Mr C paid from when it was upgraded, up 
until it was changed to an Additions Active account in November 2008; and
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest, less tax, on the Additions account fees to be 
refunded.
This should be calculated from the date each fee was charged to the date of 
settlement.
I note that Mr C did later go on to use his overdraft whilst it was an Additions account, 
and therefore he did receive the benefit of the Additions overdraft features. So I think 
it is fair if Barclays chooses to deduct the overdraft savings that Mr C received as a 
result of having the Additions account, from the above redress. If Barclays chooses 
to do this, it must show Mr C how it calculated the amount to be deducted and 
explain this to Mr C in a clear and easy to understand way.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said that it accepted my findings. Mr C 
also responded to my provisional decision and said that he had nothing further to add and 
that he accepted my assessment of the travel pack complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, as both parties have not made any further arguments, I see 
no reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional 
decision.
So, in summary, I think that the Additions account was likely to have been mis-sold as Mr 
Cs recollection of events seem plausible and the available evidence that I have seen support what he says happened when the account was sold to him i.e. that he was misled 
into thinking upgrading to the Additions account would help his mortgage application be 
approved. 
But I dont think that the feature store Packs that were later added to Mr Cs account were 
mis-sold - essentially because I think the letters that were sent to Mr C made it clear that 
they would be added to his account to provide similar levels of cover that he used to receive 
under the Premier Life account. I also think that the letters made it clear the Packs were 
optional products and that Mr C could opt out of any or all of them, if he wanted to. I also 
thought that Barclays had given Mr C a reasonable amount of time in which to consider his 
options, before the Packs were added to his account.
Putting things right
Had Mr C been provided with clear, fair and not misleading information about the Additions 
account, I dont think it is likely that he wouldve agreed to upgrade to the Additions account 
in March 2006.
So to put matters right, Barclays will need to:
Refund the Additions account fees Mr C paid from when it was upgraded, up until it 
was changed to an Additions Active account in November 2008; and
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest, less tax, on the Additions account fees to be refunded. 
This should be calculated from the date each fee was charged to the date of 
settlement.
Mr C did later go on to use his overdraft whilst it was an Additions account, as such he did 
receive the benefit of the Additions overdraft features in that time. 
So, if Barclays chooses to, it can deduct the overdraft savings that Mr C received as a result 
of having the Additions account, from the above redress. If Barclays chooses to do this, it 
must show Mr C how it calculated the amount to be deducted and explain this to Mr C in a 
clear and easy to understand way.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my final decision, I uphold this complaint in part 
and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have outlined above to put matters right, in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman