DRN-3650956
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how the fraud investigation team at TSB Bank plc responded after the 
bank refunded fraudulent transactions on his account. 
What happened
Mr O disputed five transactions on 16 February 2021, they were refunded the same day. On 
10 March 2021 he called TSB to flag further transactions he thought be fraudulent. He was 
told a partial block would be put on his account and the fraud investigation team would be in 
touch. TSB refunded the payments on 11 March 2021. 
But there was a delay between TSB providing the refunds, and the block being lifted on his 
account and a new card being ordered (16 March 2021). TSB says this was as it wanted to 
speak to Mr O about preventing fraud in the future (an education call) so the process was 
delayed by a couple of working days. Mr O was also given the wrong number for the fraud 
investigation team. Mr O was paid £25 compensation for the delay.
Mr O says he had to ask multiple times for TSBs complaint procedure and the delay left him 
with his card blocked over Mothers Day weekend. He said TSB hadnt sent him a debit card 
on his other account so that was no help  TSB has showed it had. But as Mr O did not have 
possession of that card it blocked it and issued a new one. Mr O says until 16 March 2021 
no-one at TSB provided him with accurate information.
Our investigator recommended that TSB should pay Mr O a further £50 compensation, 
taking the total to £75. He said there were issues - apart from the delay with the education 
call - that caused Mr O additional inconvenience.  TSB gave Mr O the wrong number for the 
fraud investigation team and was told he had to call them. He was later told though the team 
had no external number and it would call him. 
TSB agreed with this suggested settlement. Mr O said it should be a further £75 so that it 
totalled £100. As an informal agreement could not be reached the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case are no longer in dispute and are set out above. What remains in 
dispute is the appropriate compensation. Having reviewed the impact of the banks errors on 
Mr O I am satisfied that the suggested settlement of an additional £50 is fair. To reach this 
conclusion I have considered the time Mr O was left with inaccurate and uncertain 
information (six days) up until 16 March 2021, when he accepts the correct actions were 
taken and correct information provided. He does say the issue was not then totally solved as 
he had to wait for the replacement card to be issued for at least a further 7 days - but this is 
in line with the banks process and timelines and we would not award compensation for this.
I note Mr O says TSB also failed to provide a copy of its complaint procedure. I understand 
this would have been frustrating and TSB should have complied with his request. But we 
also consider what an accountholder can do to mitigate the impact of an issue  and TSBs 
complaint process is clearly set out online.
Putting things right
TSB must now pay Mr O the additional £50 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Os complaint in part and TSB Bank plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman