DRN-4107706
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call C, has complained that it was mis-sold a commercial 
combined business insurance policy by Balens Limited. 
Mr M and Mrs M, as directors of C, have complained on its behalf.  
What happened
C operates as a health clinic. C held business insurance sold and arranged for it by Balens. 
Balens contacted C with renewal details in February 2020 and the policy was due to renew 
on 12 March 2020. C says it spoke to Balens about any other insurance it needed to take out 
to protect the business, given the spread of Covid-19 at the time. C says Balens told it that it 
would be covered if it was forced to close. However, when C later contacted its insurer to 
make a claim under the policy for losses incurred as a result of its professional governing 
body forcing it to only provide emergency services, the insurer refused Cs claim. The insurer 
said that while it provided some cover for business interruption losses as a result of disease, 
the policy required an outbreak of Covid-19 at Cs premises and there was not enough 
evidence that was the case. 
Mr and Mrs M were very unhappy with this and said the policy had been mis-sold, as Balens 
had mis-led it about the cover. 
Balens says it provided the policy on a non-advised basis, so it was for C to determine 
whether the cover was suitable for its needs. Balens said that having provided the renewal 
information in February 2020, there were three phone calls in March 2020 when the policy 
was discussed. 
Two of the calls were on 12 March 2020, they followed on from each other, as the first call 
was cut off. Mrs M had called Balens as she had sent the information asked for but had not 
had confirmation the policy was renewed. The policy was due to expire that day. Balens said 
Mrs M asked if business interruption cover was included and the adviser confirmed there 
was no business interruption cover on the policy. Business interruption cover, including loss 
of rent, was discussed and it was agreed it would be added to the policy. Mrs M also asked 
about cover in the event of Covid-19 affecting the business. Balens said the adviser told    
Mrs M that the insurer had not confirmed how it would respond to Covid-19 related claims. 
However, the adviser said that the policy wording stated if the business is shut down by a 
local authority or governing body then the policy would respond but if it decided to close itself 
then the insurer wouldnt respond. The adviser did not promise that such claims would be 
covered and again stressed that Balens was awaiting further information on this subject from 
the insurer.
The third call took place on 20 March 2020. Balens had called C back to confirm the cover 
was in place. Mrs M asked again about cover for Covid-19 and the adviser told her that it 
had added information about each insurer and how they were responding on its website, 
which would be updated whenever it had more information. The adviser again said that it 
was waiting to hear from the insurer as to how it would respond. 
Balens says it provided C with the correct information at the time that no confirmation from 
insurers as to whether Covid-19 would be covered and did not promise that the policy would 
cover closure due to Covid-19. Balens says it provided a policy covering Cs main insurance 
requirements. C and not asked for specific Covid-19 cover.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He agreed that Balens had not given entirely 
accurate information about the business interruption cover but he didnt think Mr and Mrs M 
would have been able to find any other policy on 12 March 2020 that would have provided 
better cover. The policy sold to it did provide some cover in the event of an outbreak at the 
premises and given that most other insurers didnt think their policies provided cover for the 
pandemic, he thought it was likely C would still have gone ahead with the same policy, as 
there was unlikely to be any better cover for Covid-19 available to the time.  
C does not accept the Investigators assessment. C says it was told itd be covered if it was 
shut down by a governing body, which is exactly what happened. C was required to stop 
face to face appointments by its governing body and could only carry out emergency 
appointments. It was misled about the cover and if it had been given correct information, it  
would have looked around to get the best possible chance of cover at the time of renewal. C 
says it was given false confidence in the policy and Balens realised this, as it sent it a 
without prejudice letter asking what it wanted in settlement of its complaint. It also said it  
cant go back to March 2020 to see if it  could get another policy but had been with Balens 
for several years and were not seeking to change. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that the pandemic had an impact on Cs business. However, I am not 
going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that those selling insurance have a 
responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the cover being 
provided, in order to put the customer in a position where they can make an informed choice 
about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear information about the 
main cover and any significant terms. If the seller is also making a recommendation or 
advising a customer to take a particular policy, then they should specify the customers 
demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent with them and take reasonable 
care to ensure the suitability of its advice.
Balens says this was a non-advised sale, so it did not make any recommendation about the 
cover provided and did not need to ensure it was suitable for Cs insurance needs. I do not 
intend to make any finding about this, as I do not think it affects my consideration of the 
complaint, which is whether C was given clear, fair and not misleading information in the 
calls in March 2020 and if not, whether this made any difference to its position.  
The policy provided says it would cover: Loss resulting from interruption of or interference 
with the business in consequence of  the occurrence at the premises of any outbreak of 
human infectious or contagious disease 
This is set out in the policy terms but C had not seen these at the time it took the policy, as 
the conversations about it and the request to add business interruption cover only took place 
on 12 March 2020, the expiry date of the existing policy and the new combined policy started 
with effect from midnight on 12 March 2020.  I have listened to the calls that took place. The first and second calls on 12 March 2020 
started with Mrs M asking for confirmation the policy had renewed (it was merging two 
different policies) as she had sent the information Balens had asked for but hadnt had 
confirmation of cover. Mrs M then asked about business interruption cover. It was agreed 
that it could add that cover with effect from the start of the new policy. Mrs M asked what this 
would actually provide and the adviser explained that if C couldnt trade due to damage then 
it would provide cover for loss of income and loss of rent.  
There is no dispute as to what it was told. Both advisers told Mrs M that it had not had 
confirmation from the insurer that Covid-19 would be covered but the first adviser did tell Mrs 
M that the policy stated that if C was forced to close by a local authority or governing body its 
losses would be covered. This was not correct, as the policy didnt refer to closure by a 
public authority or governing body. So C was not given the correct information. I can 
understand therefore why Mr and Mrs M were disappointed to find that this was not the 
cover. However, I do not consider that Cs position would be any different even if Balens had 
told Mrs M the correct policy term on 12 March 2020. 
I say this because policies that provided cover for closure as a result of restrictions imposed 
by an authority had various terms; some required this to be the result of an occurrence, 
outbreak or manifestation of the disease at the premises and some for this to have been 
within a certain radius of the premises. At the time most of the insurers that provided such 
cover did not think that their policies would cover Covid-19 related claims. And most 
business insurance policies did not provide any cover for Covid-19 related claims. 
Cs policy did potentially provide some cover for Covid-19 but required there to have been an 
outbreak of the disease at the premises. It did not require the imposition of restrictions at the 
premises by any authority but did require the outbreak of disease at the premises. This is in 
line with many of the policies that also required imposition of restrictions by an authority. 
So, even if Mrs M had been told the exact wording of Cs policy on 12 March 2020, I do not 
think it likely it would have considered it needed any other policy. And even if I am wrong 
and as C says it would have looked around for better cover, I am not persuaded it is likely it 
would have been able to obtain a policy that provided cover for the effects of Covid-19 on its 
business. I say this because by 12 March 2020, insurers had already started to change their 
terms to exclude Covid-19 related claims and, as mentioned most didnt think their policies 
would cover Covid-19 related claims anyway. So if C had spoken to other insurers, it is likely 
they would have been told there was no cover under their policies. And those that did have 
cover for enforced closure may also have required Covid-19 to have been present at the 
premises in the same way as Cs policy did. Given all this, I think it is unlikely that on the day 
Cs policy expired and needed to be renewed itd have been able to find a policy that day 
that would have covered it, even if it had been concerned to do so, given the policy it did 
have potentially provided some cover (more than many policies) if there was an outbreak at 
its premises. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W were frustrated to find that the policy didnt provide cover Cs 
losses but while Balens gave C incorrect information, this was not the sole reason for C not 
being covered for its Covid-19 related losses.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman