DRN-3687409
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) on 15 
March 2022. She further complains about the subsequent decision of HSBC to close her 
accounts. 
What happened
The complaint arises from a visit Ms A paid to a branch of HSBC to transfer funds from one 
account to another. Ms A had wanted to undertake the transfer electronically, but the 
machine in branch was not working. According to Ms A, she approached the cashiers, who 
told her it was not their policy to undertake transfers at the counter and she needed to see 
an agent in the banking hall. Ms A says HSBC had transferred funds for her at the counter 
on other occasions. 
Ms A says the member of staff she dealt with in the banking hall told her that the transfer 
could not be completed without identification. Although Ms A had a photograph of her 
identification on her phone, she did not have the original ID document with her. 
Nevertheless, Ms A told us HSBC would not agree to the transfer in branch.  
Ms A says she was in the branch for over an hour and had to make the transfer later that 
day by telephone. Ms A believes the staff members in branch were hostile towards her and 
were playing with her.  She felt staff members were looking at her like she was nothing 
and were laughing at her. 
When Ms A complained to HSBC about what happened in its branch on 15 March 2022, it 
agreed to uphold her complaint and pay her £150. But another decision was also made to 
close her HSBC accounts. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms A did not agree with that 
view. She didnt think the issues raised in her complaint had been understood. Accordingly, 
another investigator spoke to Ms A and made a detailed note of her concerns about HSBC. 
A copy was emailed to Ms A, who then contacted the investigator by telephone to correct 
some of the summary.  
As Ms A did not agree with our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at what happened in the HSBC branch, I cant say it was wrong for HSBC to require 
identification before it would transfer Ms As funds from one account to another. I think it was 
also reasonable for it to require that identification to be an original document, rather than a 
photograph. Id expect HSBC to take steps to satisfy itself that the person trying to transfer 
money was the account holder. 
Ms A said she wanted to use the in-branch machine to undertake her transfer without having 
to interact with staff members. And I can see how it would have been frustrating to Ms A for 
the machine to be out of order. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Ms A lost out 
financially because she had to wait until later that day to transfer funds. With all of this in 
mind, Im satisfied the £150 HSBC already paid to Ms A is sufficient to compensate her for 
the service issues she may have encountered that day. 
Ive next looked at whether it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have closed Ms As 
accounts. 
The terms and conditions that apply to HSBC personal banking services say that it can 
close Ms As accounts straightaway in a number of circumstances, including if she has: 
behaved inappropriately either to us or when using our services. For example 
[acting] abusively, offensively or violently towards employees
Ive listened to several telephone call recordings between Ms A and HSBC. Ive also seen 
several emails and correspondence from HSBC employees in which it is alleged that Ms A 
did not behave appropriately towards staff members. For example, it is alleged that Ms A 
made a derogatory comment about a staff member with a disability; and that she had 
repeatedly shouted and been rude to staff members on more than one occasion. 
I cant know for certain what happened that day as I wasnt there. That means I have to 
weigh up the evidence I do have and reach a decision on whats more likely than not to have 
happened. So Ive taken into account what HSBC has said and also considered Ms As 
version of events too. I think its clear that things became heated in the branch that day. 
Ms A feels that HSBC were in the wrong and HSBC feels that Ms A behaved inappropriately.
But given what HSBC has said, I can see why it felt it appropriate to close Ms As accounts. 
As a business, its free to decide who it offers, or continues to offer banking services to. 
Here, it made a decision that it wasnt prepared to offer services to Ms A anymore. Thats a 
decision I think it was entitled to me make here and one that it took fairly. 
I say this because HSBC also followed the correct procedure when the accounts were 
closed. The terms and conditions actually allowed for the accounts to be closed straightaway 
in circumstances like these. However, HSBC gave Ms A at least two months notice of the 
closure, which would have allowed her sufficient time to find other banking services.  
Putting all this together then, Im satisfied that the £150 HSBC paid to Ms A was sufficient to 
compensate her for the service issues she may have encountered in the HSBC branch on 
15 March 2022. Im also satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when it decided to 
close Ms As accounts and that it gave her reasonable notice of the closure. 
With all of this in mind, I dont uphold Ms As complaint and HSBC is not required to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman