DRN-4466180
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) prevented her from 
accessing the money in her account, and never explained the conditions required for her to 
transfer funds when she opened the account.
What happened
I set out the background and my provisional findings to Mrs Hs complaint in my provisional 
decision and here.
On 6 February 2023 Mrs H tried to transfer funds from her Virgin account to her main bank 
account via internet banking, but the transaction would not go through. She called Virgin and 
was told that she could only make the withdrawal via its app or in branch, but she explained 
that she doesnt have a smartphone, and theres no branch near her. 
Mrs H said Virgin told her she needed a 'secure token', which would be sent by post. She 
objected about the delay, and after three hours on the phone was told she could do this by 
phone. She began the process, but the call went down, and she couldnt get a response. Mrs 
H called Virgin the next day to start the transfer process again, and after about two hours 
was told it wasnt possible. She called again on 8 February and was told a token would be 
sent, which arrived on 10 February to allow the transfer.
Mrs H said during many calls to Virgin she was passed around agents, none of whom knew 
about the token and refused to let her speak to a manager. She said on opening the account 
there was nothing to indicate she would need an app, or go to a branch to make a transfer 
and had she known she wouldnt have opened the account. Mrs H complained to Virgin.
Virgin responded that it sets daily transaction limits to protect its customers. It apologised for 
the communication difficulties and for any offence its agents may have caused and offered 
Mrs H £25 compensation. Virgin said the correct process was followed with Mrs Hs payment 
in line with its fraud system. It referred Mrs H to its Staying safe online guide. 
Mrs H said Virgin refused to accept it had caused a problem and she said she couldnt have 
known about the online advice and isnt linked to the Dive into the Detail page online. Mrs H 
said she was frustrated, upset, angry, had spent many hours wasted on endless phone calls, 
but was also financially embarrassed and had to borrow money. She said Virgin should 
compensate her and explain to new customers the difference with most other online 
accounts. Mrs H referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Virgins transaction 
limits are in place for security purposes and are detailed on its website. He said Mrs H 
experienced poor service on the phone, but the compensation offered for that is fair.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator. She said she couldnt find any reference to the limit on 
Virgins website, and no reference to tokens. She said Virgin were unhelpful, difficult to 
contact, and slow to react. Mrs H requested an ombudsman review her complaint.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I have looked at Virgins handling of Mrs Hs attempted online transaction to see if it acted 
reasonably and within the terms and conditions of the account, and I have also looked at the 
communications between the parties to see if Virgin has treated Mrs H fairly. 
Mrs H attempted to make an online payment of £21,000 from her Virgin account, and 
encountered problems. Virgin has said that any transaction over £500 must be conducted 
via its App or in branch. I was sorry to learn that this inconvenience led to Mrs H needing to 
borrow money from friends for a few days. Mrs H said the transaction limit wasnt explained 
to her and arent set out in the account terms and conditions.
I can see that Virgins website gives details of the transaction limits that apply to Faster 
Payments using various methods. These show the limit for online payments is £1,000 daily 
and the limit for payments using telephone banking is £5,000 daily. Payments up to £30,000 
can be made on the mobile app or using a security token. These limits apply to all customers 
and so Virgin hasnt treated Mrs H unfairly in applying them to her transaction.
In Mrs Hs circumstances it would have helped if Virgins terms and conditions included the 
payment limits and stated that for transactions in excess, a token may be required. But the 
terms dont have to cover every aspect of how an account operates, they focus on the 
elements of the contract between the parties and their obligations. I agree with the 
investigator that as Virgin offer other options to make larger payments its reasonable that 
the requirement for a token in certain circumstances isnt included in the terms, or discussed 
at account opening. However, this and Virgins approach to the tokens, (that they are only 
provided to customers on request), meant that Mrs H was largely dependent on Virgins 
agents for the information she needed.
From what Mrs H has said, she received contradictory information from Virgins agents about 
how to complete the transaction and in particular the requirement or otherwise for a security 
token. I think the agents tried to be helpful, but I would expect them to be aware that some 
customers would not have access to Virgins App or a branch and have a workaround 
available to meet the customers circumstances. 
I agree with the investigator that Mrs H was inconvenienced by being given incorrect advice 
by Virgin on phone calls and was passed between departments leading to long calls. I can 
well understand her frustration at the time spent on calls and the lack of progress she was 
making. However, I dont agree that £25 compensation represents a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs H. Virgin wouldnt have known in advance that the 
failure of the transaction would cause Mrs H the embarrassment of having to borrow money 
from friends, but this was behind her need to find an urgent solution to the transaction 
caused her embarrassment and inconvenience. 
Virgin has apologised to Mrs H for the inconvenience she suffered of long call wait times and 
I can see she spent several hours on calls in February 2013. All-in-all I think Virgin could 
have done a lot more to provide Mrs H with speedy assistance merits and this merits an 
award of £125 compensation.   
Mrs H said she wouldnt have opened the Virgin account if she had known about the need 
for a security token in certain circumstances. I havent found that Virgins approach to the 
security of large payments differs greatly from other account providers in that it requires 
stronger authentication. And as Mrs H said she doesnt often make large payments I dont 
think the potential requirement for a token would have significantly influenced her in deciding 
to open the Virgin account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In response to my provisional decision, Mrs H said she was pleased that I had agreed that 
Virgin could have done more to help in the circumstances, and she felt it was important that 
withdrawal conditions should be made clear in all marketing information.
Virgin responded to say that it accepted the provisional decision to increase the redress to 
£125 from £25.
Given that both parties have made no challenges or further points in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason not to follow the outcome I proposed there.
Putting things right
It follows that I remain of the view that Mrs H was caused considerable inconvenience at a 
time when she needed more help from Virgin, and that in order to put things right it would be 
fair for Virgin to pay Mrs H £125 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) to pay Mrs H £125 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its service has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman