DRN-3040914
The complaint
Ms D complains that she was bullied into taking out a guaranteed investment bond (GIB) 
and an investment ISA by an adviser from Lloyds Bank PLC.  
What happened
Ms D and her partner met with a Lloyds adviser on 17 January 2002. Following the advice, 
she agreed to place £20,000 into a GIB and a £7,000 into a unit-linked investment ISA.  
In June 2005, Ms D surrendered the bond for a loss; she received £19,590.79. In June 2007, 
she took the majority of the capital out of the ISA (£8918.34), leaving a £58.29 balance. 
Ms D was originally represented by a claims management company (CMC). It complained 
to Lloyds in September 2020. The CMC said that primarily, the fund used for the investment 
ISA provided too much risk for someone without investment experience. It also said Ms D 
had received unsuitable advice to commence both investments. She had been advised at a 
vulnerable time, and the investments left her with an insufficient cash reserve.
Lloyds issued a response to the complaint that same month. It said that the complaint about 
the GIB had been referred too late and it did not consent to it being allowed to proceed at the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. In respect of the ISA, it agreed with the CMC that the 
investment posed too much risk in the circumstances, though it had otherwise been 
reasonable to recommend.  
On this basis, Lloyds proposed a 50/50 redress comparison using an equal combination of 
the published Bank of England Bond Rate and the WMA Stock Market Income Index. 
The CMC said Ms D accepted the proposed redress for the sale of the ISA. The redress was 
paid into Ms Ds Lloyds bank account. However, Ms D said she had some concerns about 
how the CMC had dealt with her complaint. She therefore contacted Lloyds about this and 
represented herself from 23 October 2020 onwards. 
Lloyds wrote to Ms D again explaining that it had spoken to her directly about the complaint 
before it issued its final response. It said it was entitled to accept a letter of authority with Ms 
Ds complaint appointing the CMC  and the CMC accepted the redress calculation. It 
remained of the view that a lower risk fund for the ISA would have been more appropriate 
and it had transferred the final redress value to Ms Ds Lloyds account as directed. 
Ms D brought the complaint to this service and said she wanted the sale of both investments 
to be reviewed.  An investigator looked into the complaint but did not think it should succeed. 
He said that he felt Lloyds proposed redress for the sale of the ISA was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
He didnt think the advice to take out an ISA was unsuitable of itself, but he agreed that the 
underlying fund did not accurately reflect Ms Ds recorded attitude to risk. He therefore 
agreed with the proposal to undertake a comparison using 50% of the average rate from 
fixed-term bonds and 50% from the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index  
as this was the appropriate benchmark used by this service when upholding complaints.  
In respect of the GIB, he agreed with Lloyds that the complaint had been made too late. He 
felt that given Ms Ds explanation that she was unhappy with things she had been told by the 
adviser that this would have been apparent to her at the time the bond was surrendered. He 
therefore felt she ought to have complained within three years of June 2005. 
Ms D disagreed. She said she wasnt complaining about making a loss. She was upset that 
she was hounded by the Lloyds adviser to take out the GIB at a time when she couldnt 
afford to do so. She said she wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He said he felt Ms D would or should 
have reasonably known from the outset she was unhappy with the bond, if the adviser had 
unduly pressured her into taking it out. He therefore felt she should have complained sooner 
than she did, and certainty within three years of encashing the bond.  
He also recognised Ms D had said she was unaware she could complain until she was 
approached by the CMC. But, this did not mean the complaint was in time as he also had to 
look at when Ms D ought to have known to complain  and he felt this was earlier than 2020.  
Lloyds didnt have anything else to add. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the view that this complaint should not succeed.  I was sorry to learn 
Ms D has been unwell recently and send her my best wishes. 
Our jurisdiction
To be clear to the parties, though this complaint (comprising two distinct parts) has been 
referred to me to consider the merits, Ms D continues to disagree about the aspect of the 
complaint that our investigator says does not fall within our jurisdiction. This doesnt mean 
that jurisdiction can no longer be considered. Before a final decision is issued, relevant case 
law supports that the matter of jurisdiction remains unresolved and can still be addressed. 
Like our investigator, I believe the complaint about the GIB falls outside of our time limits. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service are set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook. Im not able to avoid the rules or apply discretion to certain 
rules. 
A specific rule, DISP rule 2.8.2 R (2), says that I cant consider a complaint (or in Ms Ds 
case, aspects of her complaint) if it was pursued more than six years after the event 
complained of, or (if later) three years from the date on which a complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he or she had cause for complaint. 
These time limits are absolute unless the business consents to waiving the time limit, or if 
there are exceptional circumstances that prevent a complainant from lodging the matter with 
this service. As noted before, Lloyds consented to the complaint about the ISA proceeding 
but it wont consent to the GIB complaint. I cannot force Lloyds to provide consent for either 
aspect of the complaint. Where it will not do so, I must apply the relevant DISP rule above. The complaint affected by our time limits is about the sale of the GIB  and this took place in 
January 2002. Ms D (through the CMC) did not pursue her complaint until September 2020. 
That is more than six years after the event she complains of. So, I agree with the investigator 
that the complaint is out of time on the six-year limb of the DISP rule. Ive therefore gone on 
to look at the three-year limb of that rule.  
The three-year time limit relies on awareness, whereas the six-year limit does not. This is to 
account for situations where a consumer does not realise he or she has reason to complain 
until a later date  which can be more than six years after the event took place. However, 
that rule also sets out that I must consider if the complainant ought reasonably to have had a 
cause to complain sooner than he or she did. 
Ms D has explained the situation around the sale of the investment, explaining how she was 
chased by Lloyds because she had funds in her account following a home insurance claim 
after a fire. This meant she was to use those funds to purchase another home in due course. 
On her complaint form to this service, she says she just agreed to the recommendations to 
get the adviser to leave her alone and she intended to cancel (and did so) at a later date.  
Ms D goes on to say she cancelled the bond once she no longer lived locally and would not 
have to encounter the adviser again. I have no reason to doubt Ms Ds version of events. But 
like our investigator I believe that Ms D knew at the time of the sale she was unhappy. She 
has made that clear now when recalling what happened in 2002  and this was in Ms Ds 
mind until she cancelled the policy in 2005.  
While I am mindful of Ms Ds explanation, I also have to consider what the rules require. The 
FCA glossary definition of a complaint says it is any oral or written expression of 
dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from a person about the provision of (or failure to 
provide) a financial service which alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) 
financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience.  
I believe Ms D was reasonably aware of her dissatisfaction with the GIB from the outset of 
the advice. She says she was railroaded into taking out investments she didnt need at a 
time of financial difficulties and the prospect of moving to a new house. This would have 
been compounded when surrendering the GIB for a small loss, given Ms Ds strength of 
feeling. I therefore cannot conclude that she didnt know or shouldnt reasonably have known 
she was unhappy in 2002, or at the latest in June 2005. The three year time limit therefore 
ran from this date, meaning Ms D had until June 2008 to refer a complaint to Lloyds.  
I can waive the time limits under DISP 2.8.2 R if the failure to comply with the limit was 
because of exceptional circumstances. However, Ms D has not provided any evidence or 
explanation which would amount to such circumstances. 
In conclusion, the complaint point about the sale of the GIB cannot be allowed to proceed as 
it has been pursued outside of the time limits that I must apply.
The complaint about the sale of the investment ISA
In respect of the offer made by Lloyds as compensation for the advice to take out the ISA, 
Ms D feels that the CMC unreasonably accepted it on her behalf. Whilst I recognise that, Im 
not able to consider matters as they rest against the CMC in this decision  this complaint is 
about Lloyds. If Ms D wants to complain to that business about its actions whilst it was acting 
as her representative with Lloyds, shell need to contact the CMC directly about that.  
What I can consider here is the outcome of the complaint, as it has been upheld by Lloyds 
and whether those findings and its proposed redress are fair in the circumstances.  As set out above, at the time of the recommendation Ms D had received an insurance 
payment following a house fire. She says this money was earmarked for putting towards a 
new home, and she also had other debt at the time. Ms D has explained how she had little to 
no income as she was working for herself in the not-for-profit sector and she did not have 
spare funds for emergencies or unforeseen expenses.  
However, I must weigh Ms Ds account against the information from the time of the sale. 
This shows that a new house purchase was underway, for the value of £170,000. However, 
Ms D had a sum of £330,000 on deposit. Given her documented circumstances, recorded 
income and expenditure, I dont believe the recommendation to use her ISA allowance and 
place £7,000 into an investment ISA was unreasonable for the adviser to propose.  
The suggestion left Ms D with remaining capital sum of £133,000 (including the £20,000 GIB 
recommendation). And Ive seen no clear evidence that this money was otherwise assigned 
by Ms D for business expenses or debts, as suggested.  
The adviser proposed Ms D take out a Unit Trust ISA. However, he confirmed in his 
suitability report to Ms D that your ISAs (both hers and her partners) invested in the 
Environmental fund are Medium high risk. He justified this by balancing the risk against the 
GIB, which had a recorded low risk profile.  
In the circumstances as recorded and those now described by Ms D, I dont believe the 
evidence shows she would have wanted to take a medium/high risk as provided by the 
investment ISA  and she has clarified that given her employment position she could not 
afford to consider notable loss to her capital. The documentary evidence from the time of the 
sale would suggest Ms D wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital, at the lower 
end of the spectrum. Ive therefore looked at the redress Lloyds calculated with this in mind. 
The proposed redress combination put forward by Lloyds is in line with what this service 
would propose. It does not mean that Ms D would have invested 50 percent of her money in 
a fixed rate bond and 50 percent in some kind of ISA-wrapped index tracker fund. Rather, 
that this a reasonable compromise which broadly reflects the sort of return Ms D could have 
obtained from an investment ISA which was properly suited to her objective and risk attitude.
In the circumstances of the ISA complaint, I believe Lloyds redress calculation and findings 
on the basis of Ms Ds risk tolerance were fair. I dont believe it should do anything more. 
My final decision
Though I realise my decision will be disappointing for Ms D, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman