DRN-4001301
Complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Background
In July 2016, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In 2020, Mr H made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. He said that P had 
made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. He 
has made the following points.
The total cost of the system was documented as £7,645 and after paying a deposit of 
£100, Mr H was led to believe the most he had borrowed was £7,545. He did not 
know interest at 9.9% was to be added to the loan. 
The system would be self-funding. 
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
Mr H reiterated that he was verbally told the FIT payments and savings on energy 
bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the system would be self-
funding. 
Mr H says that the sales document relied on by our investigator was overwhelming 
and difficult to understand as it contained a lot of facts and figures which is why he 
relied on the salesmans verbal representations. 
Mr H has referred to another case study published by this service which he says had 
similar circumstances to Mr H and this was upheld in the consumers favour. 
Mr H finally added that P was selling to vulnerable consumers in his area on lower 
income. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr H says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr H and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive 
considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, 
to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. I would add that while Ive considered carefully the comments made by the Mr H regarding 
other cases that have been upheld, or other sales that have been made by P, each case 
brought to our service is assessed on the individual merits of that case.
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mr H has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,645 in the sales quotation 
document. He has said this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so he 
was not aware of the true cost of the system, £14,851.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr H was told that the cost of the system was £7,645. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £7,645. The total amount of credit is £7,545 (after 
deducting a despot of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£14,851.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £80.62. But I note 
Mr H deferred his payments for a few months which is reflected in his credit agreement and 
his monthly payment is also marginally different at £81.95  but I dont think these 
differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
he was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,645, it would 
cost Mr H more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mr H has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £125.91, which results in an average monthly income of £10.49. The 
quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £192 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr H the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £490.71. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £80.62 (which is £967.44 annually). His actual monthly payments on his 
credit agreement was £81.95 which is annually £983.40). As a result, Im not able to 
conclude that Mr H was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment and reduction in bills. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £80.62. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £80.62, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that, the overall income he could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
I would add that I appreciate that there are parts of the quote that compare the cash price of 
the system with the benefits and therefore dont include finance charges. But the quote does 
explain in these sections that the comparison doesnt include finance. And as Ive explained 
above, I think it was made clear to Mr H that he was purchasing the system using an 
interest-bearing loan, so it would cost him more than the cash price of the system. Having 
considered the document in its entirety, as explained above, I think its more likely that it was 
made clear to him that the system wouldnt be self-funding in the way he now says it was. 
That said, I do accept that Mr H may have been told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr H could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P may have told Mr H that the system would pay for 
itself by year 19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr H. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1877.80 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr H FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2027.07 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining 
the claim.
If Mr H wishes to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint 
handling, (if he hasnt done so already) he should contact Shawbrook directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman