DRN-1692598
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in May 2006
when Mrs G applied for the card in one of the bank's branches.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs G didn't agree. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that Mrs G worked less than 16 
hours a week and it wasn't clear from the policy terms whether she'd be able to make a 
claim or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mrs Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I'll explain why.
I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs G chose to take it. I say this 
because the application form included a separate section about PPI. Mrs G ticked the box - 
or the member of staff ticked it based on the outcome of their discussion - to indicate that "I 
wish to purchase Credit Card Repayment Cover". Mrs G then signed - separately from the 
main application - to confirm that she wanted it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to make sure it was suitable for her. Mrs G 
says she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from her
employer if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. But, in the event of a 
successful claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to her sick pay and for up to 12 
months. So she would have had the peace of mind to know that her credit card payments 
were being met and her sick pay could have been used for other outgoings. It also covered 
her if shed become unemployed. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit for 
her. 
At the time of the sale, Mrs G worked less than 16 hours a week. Her representative says 
this may have made her ineligible for the policy and therefore unable to make a successful 
claim.  I understand her representative's argument - a lot of PPI policies did require the 
policy holder to be working more than 16 hours a week. But I've looked at the terms of this 
policy and there was no requirement for a minimum number of hours worked. To be eligible 
for the policy, Mrs G needed to be "working". This is defined as:"In paid work under a contract of employment and paying class 1 National Insurance 
contributions".
From the annual salary Mrs G declared when she applied for the credit card, it's clear that 
she would have been paying class 1 National Insurance contributions. So I find that she was 
eligible for the policy - even though she worked less than 16 hours a week.
Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable for Mrs G based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But I've found that Mrs G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs G would
have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think 
she would still have taken out the policy.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman