DRN-3541204
The complaint
Miss H has complained about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H contacted LV to make a claim when she found a damp patch in her home. LV sent a 
contractor to carry out trace and access. Initially no leak was found. However, when the 
damp patch got worse, the contractor visited again. The contractor said the leak was due to 
a cracked shower tray and a faulty pipe. LV declined the claim for the damage because it 
said the leak was the result of faulty workmanship which wasnt covered by the policy.
Miss H complained to LV but it didnt reply. So, Miss H contacted this service. Our service 
contacted LV and it then responded to the complaint. LV told Miss H that it had reviewed the 
claim and agreed there was a valid claim for an escape of water and that, as it couldnt 
differentiate between the damage from the pipe and from the shower tray, it would deal with 
it as one claim. However, it wouldnt pay for the damage to the pipe itself or the shower tray. 
It said it hadnt been able to locate the original complaint, but acknowledged there had been 
a delay. It said it would ask the contractor to contact Miss H to agree next steps to carry out 
the work. It also offered £600 compensation as a gesture of goodwill because of the delays 
and inconvenience caused to Miss H.
When our investigator looked at the complaint, he said that he thought LV had dealt with it 
reasonably. He said he thought it was fair for LV not to deal with the damage to the pipe or 
shower tray and that, in its response to the complaint, LV had agreed to deal with the water 
damage. He also said the £600 compensation offered was reasonable in response to the 
delays in accepting the claim and the damage left from the trace and access work 
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require LV to do anything further in relation to this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Im only looking at issues covered by the response to the complaint issued on 2 November 
2021. Im aware that Miss H is unhappy with aspects of the claim after that date, but she 
would need to raise that with LV and it doesnt form part of this decision.
Ive looked at what happened and can see that LV initially declined the claim. When LV 
looked at Miss Hs complaint, it reviewed the claim again and accepted the claim for the 
water damage. However, it said it wouldnt deal with the shower tray or the pipe as these 
issues were the result of faulty workmanship. Looking at the wording of the policy, this said 
LV wouldnt pay for faulty design, materials or workmanship. So, Im satisfied LV acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
LV also said it would ask the contractor to contact Miss H about the repair work. Im aware 
that Miss H is now unhappy about what then happened. But I think that at the time LV 
responded to the complaint that was a reasonable next step and Im aware Miss H also told 
this service she thought this was fair and reasonable at that time. As Ive already said, 
anything that happened after LVs response to the complaint would need to be raised as a 
new complaint.
Ive also thought about the compensation offered, including looking at the delays in 
reviewing the claim and Miss Hs living conditions. Im also aware of the concerns she has 
described about the increased impact on her due to family members having to live with her 
during that time. Having thought about this, I think the £600 offered by LV was reasonable in 
the circumstances and that this fairly recognised the impact of the issues with the claim. So, 
I dont require LV to pay any further compensation.
Im unable to look at the delay in responding to the complaint itself, as that isnt a regulated 
activity.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that LVs response to the complaint was 
reasonable based on the circumstances at the time and I dont require it to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont require LV to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman