DRN-2922442
The complaint
Mr B and X complain that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim for storm 
damage. The policy in question is under joint names  for ease, Ill only refer to Mr B in my 
decision.
What happened
Mr B made a claim for storm damage to his chimney. esure declined the claim after its 
surveyor (who Ill refer to as S) visited Mr Bs house to assess the claim. 
S concluded that the damage was caused by rainwater penetrating into the chimney over 
time, rather than a single event like a storm being the cause. The surveyor also referred to a 
report Mr B obtained from a roofer (who Ill refer to as O)  who concluded the damage was 
caused by gale force winds  but S didnt agree with the Os findings.
Mr B complained and esure said there was no evidence of storm damage, nor did the wind 
speed recorded at the time support that the damage could have been caused by a storm. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr B asked this service to review his complaint.
Our investigator decided that esure had declined the claim fairly. The investigator referred to 
both reports but felt that S had provided enough detail for her to conclude that the damage 
wasnt caused by a storm. 
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the investigators view on this complaint. I know Mr B will be disappointed, so Ill 
explain why.
Were there storm conditions?
In its final response to Mr B, esure suggests the weather conditions around the time the 
damage took place didnt amount to a storm. The policy defines a storm to include (but not 
limited to) wind speeds of 55 mph or above or 25 mm or more rainfall in a 24-hour period. 
Ive considered the weather data from around the time and the wind speed doesnt appear to 
have met the policy conditions for a storm. But it does seem to me that that the wind speed 
was enough to cause some damage  so Ive gone on to consider if the weather conditions 
did cause the damage to Mr Bs Chimney. 
Was the damage caused by a storm?
Ive considered both reports  one provided by S and another from a professional roofer 
Mr B asked to assess the damage - O. Its clear that both reports contradict. Os assessment 
suggests that the damage was caused by gale force winds. But S doesnt agree and 
concluded that the damage was something that happened over time because rainwater had 
penetrated into the chimney.
Having weighed up the information in both reports, Im more persuaded by what S has 
concluded. S seems to have carried out an extensive assessment of the damage  S took 
photographs of the chimney from a reasonable distance, explained where the water 
penetration seems to have happened from and provided a detailed description of the 
external condition of the chimney. 
On the other hand, Os report doesnt provide photographs and explains that closer 
inspection of the chimney was needed to fully determine the repairs that were needed  this 
makes me think that O didnt complete a thorough and close up inspection of the actual 
damage. O suggests multiple chimney pots had dislodged, but the pictures taken by S 
doesnt support this statement.
Having reviewed the report provided by S, I think esure fairly declined Mr Bs claim. Looking 
at the photographs, there doesnt seem to be any damage thats consistent with damage that 
would be caused by a storm. And it does seem apparent that at least one of the chimney 
pots werent capped, which makes it seem plausible to me that rainwater had entered the 
chimney over time. 
The policy doesnt cover gradual damage, so esure acted fairly when it declined the claim. 
I note Mr Bs recent comments on whether the chimney pots needed to be capped and that 
warm air travelling up the chimney wouldve dried out any moisture. But my role here is to 
decide whether esure acted fairly when it concluded that the damage wasnt caused by a 
storm  I think it did. I cant say for certain that the damage was indeed caused by rainwater. 
But the information Ive seen persuades me that its unlikely that the damage was caused by 
a storm.
For the reasons above, I wont be asking esure to pay the claim.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman