DRN-2432248
The complaint
This is a complaint that Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs P payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2010.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Yorkshire disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I reviewed the 
complaint, I reached a different view. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked for 
comments. This is what I wrote:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because she thought 
that Mr and Mrs P had other ways of keeping up their mortgage payments, and so 
wouldnt have agreed to PPI if theyd understood the costs and benefits of it. The 
adjudicator took into account the accident policies that Mr P says he had.
But Ive reached a different view. I dont think better information is likely to have 
affected whether Mr and Mrs P would have thought the PPI useful. And Ive looked 
at Mr and Mrs Ps other points of complaint, and generally at factors that might lead 
me to decide the PPI was mis-sold. But my view, at this stage, is that the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P have told us about savings they had, and it looks like altogether this 
would have covered them for about half a year of their combined incomes. They 
also had jobs which gave them six months full sick pay and sick months half pay. 
So they did have cover for quite a while.
It is true that some PPI policies, for things such as credit cards and loans, were of 
questionable value for many people. But being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. And this PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as
Mr and Mrs P received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need to fall back on their savings. This all 
would have put them in a more secure position, if they eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford 
the PPI when they took it out.
So I dont think it was wrong for Yorkshire to have recommended the PPI  it 
wasnt clearly unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P, and it would have been up to them to 
decide if they wanted to take it.
In saying that, Ive not taken into account the accident policies Mr and Mrs P have 
told us about. These were policies that made payments if you were injured through 
an accident. Whereas the PPI policy gave you cover if you had to be off work for 
general illness too. So it gave a much broader coverage.
And looking at the documents that have survived from the time, I think Yorkshire 
probably did make clear the main costs of the PPI, and the main benefits too. I 
dont think fuller information is likely to have made a difference to whether Mr and 
Mrs P took the PPI in their circumstances.
Mr P has said he might have been suffering from an illness, which was diagnosed 
in 2003. Its possible that a claim arising from the illness wouldnt have been paid, 
under the terms of the policy. But I dont think that alone would have put Mr and 
Mrs P off taking the PPI, as its unlikely theyd have expected to have to claim for 
that reason  Mr P has told us he took medication and the illness didnt affect his 
day to day life.
Mr and Mrs P have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. But I dont 
have good evidence to fairly say this happened. First, this was ten years ago, and I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened that many 
years ago. But also I note that the policies were set up in the unusual way of being 
two separate policies, for each of Mr and Mrs P; and unemployment cover wasnt 
included, which suggests Mr and Mrs P chose to have just sickness cover. I cant 
be sure, but this does further suggest there was some discussion about choices.
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and 
Mrs Ps knowledge or consent.
So my current view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
I didnt receive any comments or further evidence in response to this provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman