DRN-2354134
The complaint
Mr G complains that Old Mutual Wealth Limited prevented him from transferring his ISA to a
new provider.
What happened
Mr G wanted to transfer his stocks and shares ISA to a new provider. In readiness to do so,
he sold nearly all his holdings down to cash  around £230,000  except for one small
investment in a suspended fund, worth around £70.
When he then tried to transfer the ISA, he discovered he wouldnt be able to. Old Mutual
didnt allow partial transfers, which is what Mr Gs transaction would effectively have been,
because the holding in the suspended fund couldnt be held by the new provider. So, it
wasnt possible to transfer all his holdings as a full transfer.
Mr G complained to Old Mutual, but it explained that its terms didnt allow partial transfers,
and this was in keeping with HMRC guidelines  there was no requirement that it had to offer
partial transfers.
As a workaround, Mr G suggested making transfers relating to all the years hed subscribed
to the ISA except for the year in which hed invested in the suspended fund. But Old Mutual
explained that because of the way it structured its ISAs  in light of it opting to not allow
partial transfers  it wasnt able to identify and separate contributions from different years.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service where our investigator felt it should be upheld.
She didnt feel that Old Mutuals actions were consistent with the Financial Conduct
Authoritys consumer outcomes, particularly that consumers shouldnt face post-sale
barriers. She suggested that Mr G be allowed to make the partial transfer, be refunded any
costs he wouldve saved by being able to transfer earlier and paid compensation of £400 for
loss of expectation.
Old Mutual didnt accept the investigators view. It said there couldnt have been any loss of
expectation as it had never indicated that it would allow partial transfers, as was clear from
its terms and conditions. It reiterated its explanation as to why it couldnt carry out partial
transfers.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me
to review.
I reached a different conclusion to that reached by the investigator. I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
I appreciate this wouldve been a frustrating situation for Mr G, particularly given the
amounts involved. But Old Mutuals terms made clear that partial surrenders werent
possible with its ISA. And this is a term thats in accordance with HMRCs rules for such
accounts. As noted, theres no requirement for any provider to offer partial ISA transfers.
So, I dont think Old Mutual acted unreasonably or unfairly in having the term and relying
upon it. And that being so, I dont think I can find that it has acted incorrectly simply by
reference to a particular set of circumstances.
I can see why it might be felt that Old Mutual should perhaps have relented on this occasion,
because the holding causing the problem was only worth £70. But that would then have
raised the question of at what level it should also relent when similar circumstances arose for
other account holders. What if Mr Gs holding had been worth £7,000, or £70,000? It would
be unfair to expect Mr G to have been able to make a partial transfer but not another
account holder who happened to have a larger holding. And in any event, Old Mutual was
unable to offer any sort of special dispensation because its ISAs are set up in such a way
that its not able to make partial transfers without the risk of breaching HMRC rules.
As Ive said, I recognise the frustration caused. But it seems that Mr G may have been able
to carry out a transfer to an alternative provider that was able to hold the suspended fund  it
was the specific provider he wanted to move to that couldnt hold it. And while he remained
with Old Mutual he was free to reinvest his cash had he wanted to and then arrange any
subsequent transfer as in-specie when the suspended fund issue was resolved  as I
understand it now is.
I appreciate Mr G will be disappointed that Ive reached a different decision to that reached
by the investigator. But Im currently not persuaded that Old Mutual acted incorrectly in not
allowing Mr G to make a partial transfer.
Mr G didnt agree with my provisional view. He said, in brief:
He was disappointed by my decision and thought it was unfair.
Hed invested each year's ISA allowance with Old Mutual for several years. 
According to HMRC guidelines an investor can transfer an ISA from any year to a 
new provider, which the old provider is obliged to do.
In the HMRC guidance it is not mentioned that the provider can merge
subscriptions from different years and treat them as one sum and refuse the full 
transfer for other years. The provider mightve done this either for convenience or to 
tie the investor into an unintended contract.
My argument that he couldve stayed invested with Old Mutual doesnt hold ground. If 
he had a clear intention to move to a different provider, why would he again invest 
with Old Mutual?
Id mentioned that he couldve moved to a different provider who accepted the 
suspended fund. He found it a strange suggestion since he was looking for a better 
provider rather than one who would accept the suspended fund.
He felt that Old Mutual acted in contravention to HMRC guidance by merging all the 
subscriptions and treating them as if all the funds were invested in one year.
Old Mutual accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, I understand that Mr G will have been disappointed that I reached a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Ive considered carefully his further comments, but I remain of 
the view that the complaint should not be upheld. My comments concerning reinvesting temporarily with Old Mutual pending the suspension of 
the fund being lifted, or seeking an alternative provider, were intended as examples of the 
ways in which Mr G might have mitigated his position. I appreciate that they wouldnt have 
been ideal solutions.
But ultimately, Im satisfied that Old Mutual was entitled to operate the ISA as it did and allow 
only full transfers. I note what Mr G has said about the HMRC guidance, but it remains the 
case that providers can opt to not allow partial transfers and theres no obligation on them to 
allow transfer of contributions from specific years. 
Old Mutual is allowed to hold customers ISA investments in one account, regardless of the 
year in which they were made, and is therefore unable to distinguish between current and 
previous years subscriptions. As such, it cant facilitate partial transfers and this restriction is 
explained in its terms.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman