DRN-3634041
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Lowell Financial Ltd pursuing him for two accounts. He says one 
of them was taken out fraudulently in his name, and he says the other is unenforceable.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
This complaint surrounds a credit card and a short-term loan which were opened in 2015 
and 2016 respectively, and which were sold to Lowell in 2019 and 2018 respectively. 
Mr F says the credit card was taken out fraudulently in his name. And he says Lowell 
shouldnt be contacting him about the short-term loan as its an unenforceable debt. Hes 
also complained about Lowells handling of his complaint and a subject access request.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mr Fs dispute about the allegedly fraudulent lending of the credit card: that 
complaint should be looked at against the original lender, rather than Lowell. Because it was 
the original lender who lent the account, and not Lowell.
In different circumstances, we might have looked at such a dispute in a case against Lowell 
 for example, if the original lender no longer existed. But thats not the case here. And it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Lowell responsible for the original lenders actions, which took place 
long before Lowell were ever involved, when the original lender still exist and are still 
perfectly capable of being complained about. Mr F can either make a complaint to the 
original lender directly himself, or he can ask our investigator to help him get a complaint 
going. And if hes then unhappy with the answer the original lender gives him, he may then 
be able to bring that matter to us as a separate case to this one.
I hope I can reassure Mr F that if the original lender  or our service  find that the credit 
card was taken out fraudulently, then it will be taken out of his name and he will not be 
pursued for it further. Selling on accounts does not mean that fraudulent debts to go undealt 
with in the way he suggested. It is normal to sell and buy debts, and of course wed expect 
Lowell not to pursue Mr F if its found that this isnt his account.
Ill now turn to the short-term loan. I have read all of Mr Fs arguments about enforceability, 
and I appreciate his point of view. However, only a court can decide whether a debt is legally 
enforceable or not  thats not something I have the power to determine. It falls outside of 
our remit. I also cant make findings on Lowells handling of the court action itself, which is 
also out of our jurisdiction. So I cant tell Mr F whether this account is enforceable or not, nor 
make Lowell give him a document saying that it isnt. 
Moreover, a debt being unenforceable usually just means that the debt owner cant take 
certain legal action against the customer. It doesnt mean that the debt ceases to exist or 
that the owner can no longer contact the customer about it ever again. The debt still exists, 
whether its enforceable in court or not.
Here, Lowell have provided key documents for the short-term loan, such as the credit 
agreement, account statement, and the notice of assignment, showing that its a valid debt. 
And there does not seem to be any dispute that it was, in fact, Mr Fs account. So it seems 
reasonable for Lowell to contact Mr F about this genuine debt of his, and to ask him to repay 
the money he owes them.
I understand Mr F is unhappy that Lowell didnt fulfil a subject access request (SAR) in 
response to an email. However, that email came from an address that was not on file, under 
a name whose spelling did not match the name on the account.
So it was reasonable for Lowell to try to find out the identity of the person who sent this 
email, before agreeing to send this person all of Mr Fs data. They were both allowed and 
expected to do this under the relevant Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance. 
And the information they asked for was reasonable and straightforward to provide. If 
businesses didnt check identities like this, then anyone could just email in asking for anyone 
elses data  including sensitive personal and financial information. And that would not be 
right. So it was sensible of Lowell to check who had really emailed them this SAR request. 
Because the person who emailed them didnt provide the necessary identifying information, 
it was fair for them not to send all of Mr Fs data to this previously-unknown, unverified email 
address. Mr F pointed out that Lowell had otherwise written to him  but that was to contact 
details theyd verified as actually being his. If Mr F feels that Lowell have breached data 
protection rules, he is able to take this to the ICO as well, who look after data protection 
issues. But I have not found that Lowell got things wrong here.
I also understand that Mr F is unhappy with how Lowell handled his complaint, and that he 
feels they obstructed him. But as our investigator explained, complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity that we cover. So those points are outside of our remit. However, it may be 
helpful if I note that Lowell did look into Mr Fs complaint and provide a final response well 
within the appropriate timescales.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman