DRN-3068254
The complaint
 Ms C has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) allowed her to increase her overdraft 
limit to a level that that she could not afford to repay, and that it unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to her overdraft when she was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
 One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought TSB should have realised 
that Ms Cs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by 15 February 2016. So she felt 
TSB needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Cs overdraft from 
this point.
TSB disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do think that TSB acted unfairly when it 
reviewed Ms Cs overdraft in February 2016.
By this point, TSB would have seen that Ms C had been hardcore borrowing for quite 
some time. Specifically, Ms Cs account remained overdrawn for the entire six months 
before the overdraft was reviewed without returning to credit, because the credits to her 
account were no longer enough to regularly repay the overdraft.
TSB says that this isnt necessarily an indication of financial difficulty or that a facility is 
unsustainable. But the Lending Code, which was in place at the time and which TSB 
subscribed to, clearly stated that hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. So 
I disagree with TSBs assertion that sustained and prolonged overdraft usage isnt an 
indication of a potential problem.
TSB has also said that Ms C could have chosen to remove or reduce her overdraft. But its 
clear that Ms Cs overall position wasnt really improving, so I think that TSB ought to have 
seen that Ms C was already struggling to manage her overdraft and treated her with 
forbearance rather than increasing her overdraft limit in February 2016 and then adding 
increased interest, fees and charges to what she owed.
I also note TSBs comments about Ms Cs financial position in later years, but I dont think 
that has any bearing on the fact that Halifax should have taken steps to deal with the clear 
issues in how Ms Cs account was being managed in 2016. Especially as Ms C would have 
paid significant amounts of interest, fees and charges for the privilege of being allowed to 
defer dealing with her debt. 
As TSB didnt react to Ms Cs overdraft usage, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. And as this led to Ms C paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time 
when she was already struggling to clear what she owed, Im satisfied that she lost out as 
a result of TSB failing to act fairly and reasonably towards her. So TSB needs to put 
things right.
TSB has also questioned why our remedy to this complaint is to require it to remove all 
the interest, fees and charges applied to the account from 15 February 2016. TSB says 
even if it had taken action back then, it wouldnt have involved freezing all interest and 
charges or asking Ms C to repay the overdraft in full. Instead it says it would have given 
Ms C options to repay the debt and it would have been her choice to agree a repayment 
or continue managing her account as she was. 
But it was TSBs responsibility to impose a solution should the overdraft have become 
unsustainable, irrespective of whether the consumer wanted this. As it didnt do this here, 
and any corrective action is likely to have resulted in the overdraft no longer being used, or 
at least being significantly reduced, Im satisfied that a full refund of the interest, fees and 
charges applied after the overdraft review in February 2016 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Ms Cs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Cs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 15 February 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments 
have been made TSB should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If TSB considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Ms Cs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the account from February 
2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no 
longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then TSB should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint, TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman