DRN-4413501
The complaint
Miss E complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly gave her a store card and two credit cards 
that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In 2010, Miss E applied for a store card with NewDay. Due to how long ago it was taken out 
there is limited information available. However, NewDay says that at least two credit limit 
increases were applied on this account in 2014 and 2016 (its unclear what the opening limit 
was). The final credit limit was £450. The account has been dormant since 2017 as it held a 
nominal balance of 12 pence that NewDay has written off following this complaint.
In August 2018, Miss E applied for a credit card with NewDay. She was given an initial credit 
limit of £500. The limit was increased to £550 in September 2020 and to £1,550 in 
November 2022.
In November 2019, Miss E applied for a second credit card with NewDay. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £700. The limit was increased twice to £1,300 in November 2020 and to 
£2,800 in April 2021. The account was settled and closed in November 2021.
Miss E complained to NewDay in December 2022 to say the credit cards as well as all 
subsequent credit limit increases had been irresponsibly provided to her. She said that had 
appropriate affordability checks been completed before lending NewDay would have seen 
she couldnt afford the credit.
NewDay said that Miss E had made her complaint about the store card and its credit limit 
increases too late. This is because it was outside of the time limits set by the financial 
services regulator.
NewDay did however agree it shouldnt have increased Miss Es credit limit on the first credit 
card and offered to refund all interest and charges that had been incurred on balances that 
exceeded the opening credit limit of £500. It also upheld Miss Es complaint about the two 
limit increases on the second credit card in the same way. But it didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in providing the initial credit limit on either card.
I sent Miss E and NewDay my provisional decision on 6 October 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint about the store card had been brought too late and I therefore 
couldnt consider any complaint about it. In relation to the two credit card accounts, I said:
NewDay has already agreed that it shouldnt have given Miss E any credit limit 
increases on either of the two credit cards. So, Ive seen no reason to consider those 
lending decisions any further. Ive therefore only looked at whether I think it acted 
fairly and reasonably in opening both accounts and providing the initial credit limits. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website 
and Ive had this in mind when deciding whether NewDay acted fairly.
When the first credit card was opened, Miss E declared an annual income of around 
£14,500. NewDay completed a credit check which it said showed that Miss E had 
existing credit, including active payday loans. It also appeared to use a tool provided 
by a credit reference agency to verify Miss Es declared income. I note this check 
returned a value of Fail, so it appears NewDay simply relied on what Miss E had 
declared on the application.
Generally, it wouldnt be considered sufficient to rely solely on a statement of income 
just from the applicant, but I accept there will be exceptions to this. However, given 
that it appears NewDay tried to verify income in some way and failed, and it could 
see that Miss E was currently using payday loans I think this ought to have been of 
significant concern.
NewDay hasnt provided us a detailed breakdown of the credit checks it completed. 
Instead, its given a broad overview of some key data points. In the absence of this 
more specific detail, Ive relied on a copy of Miss Es credit file that shes provided to 
us as an indication of what I think NewDay likely saw. Her credit file indicates Miss E 
had been in a sustained cycle of borrowing with payday loans for a significant period 
of time leading up to the application of this credit card. As well these she also held a 
number of other unsecured debts. I note that in checks NewDay completed a few 
months after the application it could see a recent history of over 40 payday loans on 
Miss Es credit file. So, I think its likely this was also visible to it during the 
application.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think NewDay made a fair lending 
decision when it opened the first credit card. It hadnt been able to verify or check 
Miss Es stated income (which she had declared to be relatively modest), it could see 
she had a number of unsecured debts and that shed been in a prolonged cycle of 
borrowing with payday lenders. All of this ought to have told NewDay that Miss E was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay more credit without having to borrow even 
more.
I also consider it acted unfairly when it opened the second credit card. This is 
because at the point of application Miss E had held her first credit card with NewDay 
for around 15 months. In that time, she had incurred overlimit fees in 12 of those 
months, including being consecutively over her agreed limit for the previous 11 
months. NewDays credit checks would also have shown that her overall unsecured 
debt had also increased in that time by around 50%. All of this ought to have told 
NewDay that Miss E was not in a position to be able to afford to sustainably repay 
more credit. It therefore shouldnt have lent to her.
For these reasons, I dont think NewDays current offer of redress is fair. I dont think 
it should have granted Miss E either of the two credit cards as it ought to have been 
clear she wasnt able to sustainably afford the repayments.
It isnt possible to completely undo the lending that has happened. As Miss E has 
spent the money on the credit cards, I think its fair she pays back the capital 
amounts she borrowed. However, as I dont think NewDay should have lent to her, 
its fair that it reworks both accounts removing all interest, fees, charges and 
insurances not already refunded. It should also remove any adverse information from 
Miss Es credit file once the capital has been repaid.
Miss E accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. NewDay didnt 
respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. Im therefore 
satisfied that NewDay acted unfairly when it gave Miss E both credit cards and it should 
therefore put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to:
a) Rework both credit cards removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded).
b) For credit card one:
I. If the rework results in Miss E having paid back more than the capital amount 
she borrowed, NewDay should refund any overpayments to her. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. It should also remove any adverse 
information it has recorded on Miss Es credit file in relation to this account.
Or;
II. If the rework results in there still being a capital balance outstanding it should 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss E for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss E has repaid the capital, NewDay should remove any adverse 
information recorded on her credit file in relation to this account.
c) For credit card two, as this has already been repaid in full by Miss E, NewDay should 
refund any overpayments Miss E has made following the rework of the account. It 
should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment (that is 
the date from which each overpayment would have resulted in a credit balance on 
the account) to the date of settlement. It should also remove any adverse information 
it has recorded on Miss Es credit file in relation to this account.
If NewDay has sold any outstanding debt to a third party, it should either buy back the debt 
to carry out these directions or ensure the third party does so promptly on its behalf. 
If NewDay considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Miss E with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman