DRN-3819809
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC (Metro) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr H is represented in this case but for ease, Ill refer to Mr H throughout this decision.
Mr H says that he was contacted on social media by someone Ill refer to as A who said they 
traded in stocks and shares and were FCA regulated. Although he didnt know at the time, A 
was a scammer. Mr H made enquiries with A in 2020 but at the time didnt go any further. He 
says he saw daily posts and testimonials from satisfied customers who had received life-
changing profits and was saving for his wedding, so in February 2021 he contacted A again 
and decided to invest. A suggested an initial investment of £800 to see how things went and 
agreed to trade on Mr Hs behalf for a small commission. Mr H believed this first payment 
was to As accountant. After he made the payment, Mr H received confirmation of his 
payment by email. 
After a few days A told Mr H the investment had done well and that he needed to pay a fee 
of £2,000 to withdraw his profits. The fee would be refunded with Mr Hs profits and didnt 
come as a surprise to him as A discussed this with Mr H before he invested. Mr H 
transferred £2,000 to a different individual in two separate payments. A then told Mr H that 
the £2,000 had mistakenly been invested and his profits were now greater. As a result, Mr H 
was asked to pay another fee of £2,000. This payment was also split into two payments and 
the last one was made to a third payee. 
I have set out in the table below the payments Mr H made to the scammer. Mr H says that 
he didnt receive any warnings or messages from Metro when he set the new payees up. 
Date Amount Payee
05/11/21 £800 1
08/11/21 £1,100 2
08/11/21 £900 2
08/11/21 £1,050 2
09/11/21 £950 3
TOTAL £4,800
Mr H didnt receive any documentation (other than the email confirmation) but got regular 
updates on a messaging platform. In anger and frustration, he deleted the messages though, 
so Ive not been able to see them. He says A sounded professional and knowledgeable. 
A kept reassuring Mr H hed receive his funds, but this didnt happen, and Mr H contacted 
Metro to report the scam on 10 November 2021. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) and has considered Mr Hs claim under it. It says that it 
provided Mr H with warnings at the time the payments were made and that he didnt 
complete enough checks to ensure the investment was legitimate. Metro also said that it 
contacted the banks that received Mr Hs funds in an effort to recover them but was advised 
that none remained.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
there were numerous red flags that Mr H ought reasonably to have questioned and that he 
hadnt completed any checks before deciding to invest. The investment was arranged over 
social media and a messaging service, Mr H received an email from a personal account, he 
made payment to multiple individual payees rather than to a company and it seemed likely 
the rate of return was unrealistic given that Mr H was asked to pay a £2,000 withdrawal fee. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a decision, so his complaint 
has been passed to me. In summary, he said that Metro ought to have picked up on the 
unusual activity on his account and intervened. This is because Mr H made five higher value 
payments to three new payees over four days. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
should have reimbursed Mr H under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect them from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Mr H to receive a refund of the money he lost under the CRM Code. Under the 
CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent. 
*Further exceptions are outlined in the CRM Code, but they do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr 
H and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Metro has raised about the legitimacy 
of the transactions Mr H made are enough to support it can rely on an exclusion to 
reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think he had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payments were for genuine services or that the person he transacted with was 
legitimate and will explain why. I should also say that its the combination of these factors 
that lead me to believe Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis for belief and that none of them 
can be considered alone. -Mr H contacted someone from a social media site after seeing the investment 
opportunity. Social media is not an investment platform.
-All contact between A and Mr H was via a social media site and messaging service, 
which isnt what Id expect if A was a genuine broker working for a genuine company. 
-It seems from Mr Hs discussion with Metros fraud department that A claimed to be 
from a company, but he couldnt remember the name of it. Mr H hasnt suggested 
that he completed any research into this company or checked its FCA registration. I 
consider that Mr H ought reasonably to have at least looked at the companys 
website. 
-Mr H wasnt provided with a contract or any documentation other than an email to 
confirm his initial investment. This email was from a personal account which I think 
ought reasonably to have concerned Mr H and led him to take additional steps before 
making any further payment. Genuine brokers would set out the terms agreed in 
writing. 
-Mr H says he cant remember the rate of return he was offered and no longer has the 
messages from A. But its clear that A offered a quick return (as Mr H was asked to 
pay a fee after three days). I consider it likely the return was high given that Mr H was 
prepared to send £2,000 to withdraw it and the email confirmation he received said a 
fee was payable if profits exceeded £3,000. So, Mr H must have made substantial 
profit in a few days on his £800 investment. An unrealistic rate of return is a sign that 
something is amiss. And all investment involves an element of risk and forex trading 
is particularly risky, but Mr H was told that if the trade failed, hed receive a full 
refund. I think these factors ought reasonably to have led Mr H to be cautious. 
-Mr H paid three different individual payees, none of whom were A. This is not what 
Id expect if he was investing through a genuine company. Mr H seems to have 
questioned the reason for this when he made the initial investment but not after that 
when he was asked to pay two other payees. If Mr H was investing through a 
legitimate company all payments should have been made to that company. So I think 
this was another sign that the investment and broker werent genuine. 
-A provided Mr H with a screenshot that showed her full name and an FCA 
registration number. Whilst Mr H says the name on the screenshot was the same as 
on social media, there was nothing to show that A was the individual registered with 
the FCA. And if Mr H had checked A on the FCA website hed have seen that the 
number on the messages he received from A didnt match her official details. 
Metro says that each time Mr H set up a new beneficiary and payment he was provided with 
a warning. But it hasnt been able to evidence the payment reason Mr H chose or which 
warning he saw. If Mr H had chosen a financial opportunity as the payment reason, hed 
have been given some advice about out of the blue contact likely being a scam, to check the 
FCA website through a link provided, and not to make the payment unless you know the 
money is going to the right place. I dont consider the warning was effective as it didnt bring 
to life what a social media investment scam looks like, but I think Mr H should have been 
alive to the possibility that A wasnt offering a genuine investment opportunity.  
Overall, I consider Metro acted reasonably in relying on an exception to reimbursement set 
out in the CRM Code. 
Should Metro have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr H? 
Im also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Metro should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payments Mr H made were unusual or suspicious. I dont believe the payments Mr H made were so unusual and out of character that Metro 
ought reasonably to have intervened and asked him questions about them. I accept that Mr 
H made a series of payments over a few days and set up three new payees. But the amount 
of each payment was relatively low, Mr Hs balance wasnt depleted, and he had previously 
made faster payments. It seems that the scammer asked Mr H to make smaller payments to 
avoid them being picked up by Metros systems. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, they cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. I appreciate the loss has had an impact on Mr 
H, but I dont believe it would be reasonable to expect Metro to have taken any additional 
steps when the payments were made. 
I note that Mr Hs representative has referred to previous decisions this service has 
published and upheld. Each case is considered on its own merits and whether a payment is 
unusual will depend on an individual customers account activity. I did note though that the 
amounts transferred were significantly greater in the cases Mr Hs representative has drawn 
this services attention to. 
Did Metro do enough to recover Mr Hs funds?
Ive also considered Metros actions once it was made aware of the scam. Mr H reported the 
scam on 10 November 2021. On the same day, Metro contacted most of the banks that 
received Mr Hs funds to see if any funds remained. Each of the banks that Metro contracted 
on 10 November confirmed that no funds remained, so there was nothing more Metro could 
have done. 
Metro appears to have made an error and not contacted the bank that received the first 
payment of £800 until January 2022 so we contacted this bank to see if the delay had an 
impact on the recovery of funds. Ive been provided with evidence that demonstrates the 
funds were removed very soon after they entered the receiving account, meaning they had 
been removed by the time Mr H reported the scam to Metro. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider Metros delay had any impact on Mr H.
Overall, Im really sorry that Mr H has lost money in a cruel scam, but I cant fairly ask Metro 
to refund him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman