DRN-3745509
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold a retirement investment account by Santander 
UK Plc.
What happened
In 1989 Mr M says he was advised by a business, now known as Santander, to contract out 
of the State Earnings Pension Scheme (SERPS) and take out a retirement investment 
account (RIA). Mr M paid contributions into the RIA until 1998 and the policy matured in 
2008. Mr M took a tax-free lump sum and purchased an annuity with the remaining policy 
proceeds.
In 2022 Mr M complained via a representative that the policy had been mis-sold. He said 
contracting out of SERPS in favour of investing his contributions in the RIA was too high risk 
for him but Santander had advised him to do so. He said he had a personal pension that he 
ought to have been advised to increase his contributions to, rather than to opt out of SERPS.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said no advice was given to Mr M  it was an 
execution-only sale  but it considered the policy was appropriate for him as it would help 
with his goal of building extra retirement funds.
Mr M remained unhappy so he referred his complaint to our Service. Mr M said he was 
advised to take out the RIA in a branch but he wasnt given sufficient information about it and 
it wasnt suitable for him in view of his age.
An Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Santander had advised Mr M to take out the RIA. 
Mr Ms representative disagreed, saying that the regulations at the time of the sale show that 
answering questions would be construed as advice. As it believed there was likely a 
discussion with Mr M about his circumstances and the sales person wouldve answered 
questions, it thought advice was most likely given to him.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the Investigator.
Mr Ms representative maintains that advice was given because a meeting was pre-arranged  
with a senior employee in the branch. It says Mr M had no knowledge of the product before 
entering the branch and he didnt know of the benefits or disadvantages of contracting out of 
SERPS. It says Mr M was told the RIA was the best product for him, he was given a 
personal illustration and the paperwork was subsequently completed by adviser  he was 
simply told where to sign. It says Mr M would not have taken the RIA out independently, and 
he has only ever followed advice.
Ive taken what Mr Ms representative has told us about Mr Ms recollections into account 
here. But Im mindful that these events took place over 30 years ago, so Ive considered this 
alongside the documentary evidence I have, as well as what I know about Santanders sales 
processes at the time, to reach my decision.
Although Mr M says that he didnt know anything about the RIA before he entered the 
branch, I think on balance he received a direct mailing from Santander about the account 
and went into a branch with a view to taking it out. I say this because Santander has 
explained that the product was marketed in this way, and has provided a copy of a leaflet 
that Mr M likely received. This shows that the process at the time was for Mr M to make an 
appointment in branch and bring along information that would be needed, as per an 
enclosed checklist.
Furthermore, Mr Ms application form  a copy of which Ive seen  asks where Mr M found 
out about the RIA, and the box for Direct Mailing has been ticked. There were alternative 
options, such as a Personal recommendation or Walked into a branch. If the RIA had been 
proposed to Mr M by Santander in person, I think the application form wouldve reflected 
this. There is also no evidence in any other associated paperwork from the time that Mr M 
received advice to take out the RIA. This would include evidence of payment for the advice, 
such as via commission. So, Im satisfied Mr M most likely approached Santander to take 
out the RIA and that he didnt receive any advice to do so.
Mr Ms representative says that the lack of documentary evidence of advice in this case 
doesnt mean that advice wasnt given to Mr M. It says Mr M was told about the RIAs 
benefits and why it was best for him. It has also pointed to the regulators update on 
execution-only sales, which it says shows that answering questions about anything other 
than price or administration would be considered to be investment advice.
At the time of the sale, Santander wouldve been subject to the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation rules (LAUTRO). Mr Ms representative refers to an 
enforcement bulletin issued by LAUTRO in 1988. Ive considered this but I dont think there 
is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the sale of the RIA was in breach of this guidance. 
The bulletin states that execution-only, will be interpreted very narrowly as covering only 
those situations where a client asks for a specific and accurately described product without 
prompting or advice. And as Ive explained above, I think it is more likely than not that Mr M 
received a direct mailing about the RIA and approached Santander himself with the intention 
of taking it out.
The bulletin goes on to say, A company or appointed representative who answers any 
questions except those on price or administration, will be considered to have given 
investment advice and will not therefore be able to execute a deal for any product other than 
those of his own marketing group which he has the authority to sell without breaching the 
Rules. It is evident that some information would need to be gathered from Mr M to ensure 
he was eligible for the RIA and in order to complete the application. I would also expect the 
sales person to give general information and answer questions about how the policy worked, 
as well as highlighting its advantages and risks. However, Ive not seen evidence to 
persuade me that Mr M was given information about the RIA beyond what I would expect to 
be disclosed in a non-advised sale.
I dont think the provision of a personal illustration of the benefits Mr M could receive at 
retirement constitutes giving advice. Ultimately the personal illustration would help Mr M to 
understand what he could receive at retirement if he invested in it. This is the sort of information Id expect Mr M to be given to help him make a decision about whether or not to 
take out the RIA. I also dont think answering general questions about how the plan worked, 
or highlighting the advantages of the plan would constitute advice either. I appreciate Mr M 
says Santander went beyond this and told him the RIA was best for him, but I dont think that 
is likely, given the other evidence Ive seen that points to the sale being non-advised. So, 
overall, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman