DRN-4225408
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has dealt with
the settlement of his claim under his home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr Cs home was damaged by an escape of water and he made a claim under his home
insurance policy. In September 2021 RSA instructed a surveyor to assess the damage and
accepted that it was caused by an insured event.
The surveyor recommended testing for asbestos and that drying out take place in the
kitchen. RSA appointed a loss adjuster to advise on the strip out of the kitchen and to
provide a scope of works for its contractors. The loss adjuster attended and the scope of
works was sent to Mr C. The asbestos removal was carried out in January 2022 and the
remainder of the strip out works and drying out was completed by the beginning of March
2022.
In January 2022 Mr C was offered settlement options  a cash settlement of £5,565.62
including VAT, or for RSA to carry out the repair work using their own contractors. RSA
warned Mr C that there could be a long wait for reinstatement works to begin and suggested
he also obtain his own quotes from local contractors.
On 19 April 2022 Mr C emailed RSA attaching his contractors quotes and asking it to agree
a quote of £25,770 including VAT. RSA said it couldnt approve the quote as there was a big
difference between their settlement figure and the quote. It suggested its loss adjuster attend
to reassess the work required. Mr C said that hed instructed his contractor to begin work
and whilst he couldnt see that a further inspection was justified, he agreed the loss adjuster
could attend. He said that the cash settlement offered wasnt sufficient to do the work and
that his quote was based on RSAs scope. RSA said that theyd not authorised Mr C to go
ahead with the work and that it couldnt agree to pay more that it would have cost its own
contractors to complete the work. It asked Mr C to arrange for his own contractor to provide
a detailed costing for it to consider.
Mr C complained to RSA about the cash settlement offered as it would not put the property
back into its pre-loss condition. He felt that RSA had encouraged him to get his own quotes
and wanted RSA to agree his own contractors quote as he had already commenced the
work. He was also unhappy about the time taken for the claim to progress.
RSA referred to the terms and conditions of its policy and said that a cash settlement
wouldnt normally exceed the amount it would pay its own contractor. It thought the
settlement offered was fair, and it hadnt agreed to pay the quote from Mr Cs contractor. It
also said it didnt encourage Mr C to use his own contractor but advised him of the option of
doing so. It said it wanted its loss adjuster to re-examine the property following the strip out
to reconsider the costs, particularly as there was such a difference between Mr Cs quote
and RSAs contractors costs. It didnt accept that there had been any avoidable delay. Mr C
then brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that RSA had done anything wrong. She didnt think that RSA
had caused delay and that it wasnt unreasonable for it to refuse to pay Mr Cs contractor as
the quote was not agreed in advance. She said it was fair for RSA to offer a cash settlement
based on what it would have cost it to carry out the work itself.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was never warned by RSA not to commence work without
authorisation. Mr C said he agreed to allow the loss adjuster to re-attend but that the work
had already started. He also said that RSA hadnt provided details of its settlement figure.
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2023. I said: 
RSA offered Mr C two settlement options in their email of 25 January 2022 - a cash
settlement of £4,638.02 excluding VAT for Mr C to carry out the work, or for RSA to do the
work using their own contractors.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. At page 12 it says Where we can offer
repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay our customer a cash
settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we would have paid our
preferred supplier.
Ive seen a copy of RSAs costed scope using its own contractors rates and the total amount
equals £4,638.02 excluding VAT. This is what RSA offered Mr C as this is what it would
have cost it to carry out the work itself. RSA will have relationships with contractors whose
costs are likely to be lower than those charged by a policyholders contractor. If a
policyholder chooses to use their own contractor, it wouldnt be fair to expect the insurer to
pay more than what it would have cost it to carry out the work itself.
I agree with Mr C that RSA encouraged him to obtain his own quotes due to delays in their
contractors start dates. RSA specifically said this in its email of 25 January 2022. However,
encouraging Mr C to obtain a quote is not the same as agreeing to pay the sum quoted.
Mr C accepts that RSA didnt explicitly authorise him to start the works. However, he says
that he wasnt warned not to commence work without authorisation and suggests this could
be seen as implied consent. However, I dont think failure to warn against doing something
necessarily implies that its ok to go ahead and do it without authorisation.
Ive looked carefully at communication between the parties so see if consent can be implied
in the circumstances of this case - and I dont think it can. I can see that RSA encouraged Mr
C to obtain a quote - and I accept that it didnt specifically warn him not to commence work.
However, Mr C sent his two quotes to RSA seeking agreement. This would suggest to me
that he knew the quotes would need to be approved. When the quote he preferred was
refused by RSA, Mr C emailed again asking RSA to reconsider. Mr C was also advised by
RSA that if there was no agreement on costs, he could use RSAs contractors instead.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that there was implied consent for the work to
commence. Mr C was also fully aware that his quote was considerably higher than the cash
settlement offered by RSA, and I dont think its reasonable to assume that RSA would agree
and pay it.
RSA asked Mr C to agree that their loss adjuster reinspect the property to ensure that the
scope and their costings were correct. Mr C initially refused but changed his mind and
agreed the loss adjuster could attend. Mr C said that he thought a further visit meant that the
scope of works would be reduced to match RSAs costings, but I havent seen anything tosuggest this. The scope was carried out before the strip out works and from the
correspondence Ive seen I think RSA was simply trying to ensure it had the correct price
and to see if there was any reason why Mr Cs quote was so much higher than theirs. I also
note that RSA asked Mr C to provide a detailed breakdown of his contractors quote for
consideration, but I dont know that this was done.
I understand that Mr C was keen to get the work completed and that he had been told by his
contractor that there would be delay if work didnt commence straightaway. However, this
wasnt relayed to RSA and RSA had already said that it couldnt agree the quote. In these
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline to pay Mr Cs quote.
Taking all the above into account I dont think that RSA acted unfairly in declining to pay Mr
Cs quote and offering a cash settlement based on their own contractors rates of £4,638.02
plus VAT. I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr C also complains of delay with the progress of his claim. RSA hasnt commented
specifically on this apart from saying there were no excessive or avoidable delays.
Ive therefore looked through RSAs notes of the claim and Im satisfied that during the first
month or so the claim progressed smoothly. There then seems to be some confusion
regarding the strip out works required to allow removal of the asbestos  and who was going
to carry them out. Mr C contacts RSA at the beginning of December 2021 asking if progress
could be speeded up as the kitchen was cold and damp and there were two vulnerable
people living at the property. At the end of December 2021 he was offered an appointment in
January 2022 for the asbestos removal. I think there was some delay during this period as
there seemed to be little progress between November and the making of the appointment in
December 2021.
There was further confusion regarding appointments for the drying out  but I dont think this
led to any significant delay on RSAs part. All drying out was completed by early March 2022
and RSA then contacted Mr C to discuss settlement of his claim.
Mr C says that RSA always kept him updated with his claim, but he was frustrated by the
slow progress. He says that this resulted in him and his family spending the winter in a cold
and damp kitchen waiting for the preparation work to complete. I accept that this was
particularly difficult as Mr C had a young child and another family member living with him
who had serious health issues. RSA were aware of this.
I therefore intend to require RSA to pay compensation of £500 for distress and
inconvenience caused by delays with the progress of the claim.
In April 2022 RSA offered Mr C the sum of £2,000 for disturbance at the property whilst the
works were ongoing and whilst the kitchen was out of use. I queried this with RSA who
confirmed that this wasnt compensation but was offered by the claims department as a
disturbance allowance. RSA said that Mr C declined this and so it hasnt been paid but
confirmed that the offer still stands. As this wasnt part of the complaint or offered as
compensation, I havent dealt with it here and if Mr C wishes to accept it, he should contact
RSA directly.
RSA responded and queried the length of the delay and what evidence there was that Mr 
Cs family had health issues. Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a 
detailed response that I have summarised and dealt with below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all their comments very carefully, 
even if Ive not specifically commented on them below. My decision focuses on whether 
RSAs actions were reasonable and, whilst I know Mr C will be disappointed, Ive not seen 
anything new that makes me change my mind. 
Mr C says that RSA should have used its discretion to depart from its terms and conditions 
at page 12. Whilst I agree that the terms and conditions allow some discretion, my role is not 
to tell RSA to use that discretion but to consider whether it acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. The policy allows RSA to settle on its own contractors rates and, as it had 
offered to carry out the work itself, I dont think it acted unreasonably in declining to pay Mr 
Cs quote. 
Mr C says that RSA made no attempt to negotiate a settlement - but I dont agree. 
Negotiations could only take place once Mr C provided his quotes, and this was only done 
the day before his contractors started work. RSA suggested a further visit by its loss 
adjuster, but this was initially refused by Mr C. I dont think this visit was just to reduce the 
scope as Mr C suggests, but to look at the costs again due to the difference in price. RSA 
also offered to carry out the work itself if there was no agreement on costs after the second 
visit. Whilst Mr C then agreed to allow the visit, the work had already begun. Mr C says he 
wasnt aware that RSA had requested a detailed costing of his quotes, but Ive seen an 
email dated 21 April 2022 asking for this information, so Im satisfied it was requested. 
Mr C didnt think RSA had made it clear that he shouldnt commence works. Ive largely dealt 
with this in my provisional decision, and I havent seen anything new that changes this. RSA 
told Mr C that it couldnt agree the quote as soon as it was received and I think it made this 
clear. Mr C says that by asking him to obtain quotes RSA had assumed the role of advisor 
and that it then failed to properly advise him not to commence the work without 
authorisation. However, I dont think RSA took on the role of an advisor. RSA suggested 
that due to delays with its contractors it might be quicker to use local contractors, but I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that this makes RSA an advisor as Mr C suggests.
Mr C says that the settlement should be recalculated to include inflationary price increases 
since the scope was prepared. However, RSA offered to settle this case in January 2022 
based on its network contractors rates at the time. Mr C didnt accept this, and his own 
quotes werent provided until April 2022. As I dont think RSA acted unreasonably by offering 
to settle at its own contractors rates, I wont be requiring it to recalculate its offer. 
RSA queries what evidence there was that Mr Cs family member had health concerns. RSA 
was aware of health issues due to Covid and had accepted these as mitigating 
circumstances for Mr C not dealing with the original leak more quickly. Mr C had also told 
RSA that there was a young child in the house. As RSA was aware of these issues and 
hadnt challenged them, I see no reason to doubt what Mr C said. 
Ive awarded compensation for delays when there was confusion regarding the asbestos 
removal and strip out works. The asbestos company and drying company were instructed in 
September 2021 and, whilst there was progress in October, there were delays in November, 
December and January that I think were RSAs responsibility. This was over the winter 
period which I think would have caused Mr C and his family considerable distress and 
inconvenience. Mr C thinks the compensation is not sufficient, but I think the award of £500 
is fair in all the circumstances. Mr C also raises the issue of additional heating costs due to the state of the unrepaired 
kitchen during the winter months and the additional electrical costs of running the drying 
equipment. RSA says it offered in an email in February 2022 to reimburse these costs and 
Mr C should contact RSA to arrange payment. Likewise, as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision, RSA has already offered a disturbance allowance of £2,000 and Mr C should 
contact RSA for payment if he wishes to claim this.
On balance Ive not seen any evidence that causes me to depart from the findings in my 
provisional decision. So, my final decision and reasoning remains the same. I dont think 
RSA acted unreasonably in declining to pay Mr Cs quote, but I do think there was some 
delay with progressing the claim and that RSA should pay £500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 02 January 2024. 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman