DRN-3582727
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc is holding him responsible for an overdraft that 
arose from an error.
What happened
Mr D was a business customer of Bank of Scotland. In 2015 he transferred his business 
banking to a different bank. He is unhappy that Bank of Scotland say he is responsible for an 
overdraft of over £5,000 created after that transfer.
Bank of Scotland said that his accounts hadnt been fully closed in 2015 due to outstanding 
borrowings. This debt related to this and his treasury loan. It had records of contact with     
Mr D about the repayment of this in 2016, 2017 and 2018. And on 23 January 2018 hed 
said he intended to repay this, but he thought it would be added to the existing loan. There 
was no record of this happening. Bank of Scotland accepted that it should have transferred 
the borrowing to a specialist team earlier to discuss repayment with him and sent Mr D a 
cheque for £100 for the poor service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr D had 
received a statement in March 2016 showing the balance owing of £5,099.98 and an interest 
rate of zero percent. And Mr D said he expected Bank of Scotland to fix this. But the contact 
notes stated that a formal demand was issued in November 2016. And that Mr D spoke to a 
relationship manager about this in January 2017 saying he would deal with this. Another 
formal demand was issued in January 2018. It further wrote to Mr D in March 2021 about the 
borrowing.
Our investigator said that it probably wasnt a good idea for a loan repayment to have been 
taken from this current account. But that didnt mean that Mr D didnt owe this money. And 
he also considered that the contact notes showed that Mr D acknowledged this amount. It 
wasnt in dispute that any loan was now paid off so he didnt think such statements would be 
relevant. Bank of Scotland accepted it didnt do enough to pursue this amount but that didnt 
mean that it should write this off. And he hadnt seen anything to suggest that the amount  
Mr D owed was in doubt. The compensation was reasonable for the service issues. He 
noted that Bank of Scotland had wrongly written to Mr D stating that a referral to this service 
had been closed. But Mr D reasonably knew he had never made such a referral by then and 
this was in error.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that it was nonsense 
that Bank of Scotland required an active account for the loan and that he wasnt allowed to 
access and believed had been closed. Bank of Scotland had his new account details and 
should have used these. And he maintained it wasnt possible to judge what happened 
without seeing the loan statements. Wed favoured Bank of Scotland. He said he had no 
hesitation in going to court if he needed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the bank statement showing the overdraft amount. And that this was 
created by a transfer on 29 January 2016. The case notes and also email correspondence 
from Mr D to Bank of Scotland support that there had been a loan servicing account from 
which payments would be taken annually in the month of January.
Im satisfied that Mr D was aware of this amount due and that formal demands had been 
made. While I agree with Mr D that by 2016 the payment should likely have come from his 
new business account that didnt happen here. And he had the opportunity to rectify this and 
seemed to have had discussions with Bank of Scotland about doing so. I dont see any 
evidence to support that this amount wasnt fairly due from him. And it isnt in dispute that 
the loan has been repaid and I dont see that statements would assist here.
On one hand its unfortunate that Bank of Scotland didnt pursue this further but thats also 
meant no recovery action has been taken. And Mr D has had the opportunity to dispute 
things over several years. I agree with our investigator that this passage of time doesnt 
mean that this amount is no longer due. I find the compensation he has been paid adequate 
for the service issues.
There have been some issues with complaint handling here. Mr D says that he hadnt made 
a formal complaint although Bank of Scotland treated his issues as such and sent a final 
response letter on 6 August 2021 providing him with referral rights to this service. On 8 
October 2021 it wrote to him saying that his complaint had been closed by this service. And 
then that it was still considering his complaint. But that was an error as he referred his 
complaint to this service with a complaint form dated 1 February 2022. And he states in that 
form that Bank of Scotland had admitted this error to him. I appreciate he says that this was 
harassment, but I find it to be a genuine error. And complaint handling isnt a separate 
regulated activity and I wont fairly be requiring any further action about this.
Im afraid Mr D will need to discuss repayment of his borrowing with Bank of Scotland and Id 
expect it to take his personal financial position into account when doing so. If he doesnt 
accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court as hed indicated he might 
and that would be subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman