DRN-3737019
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as BMW Finance (BMW). 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr S acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMW. The 
cash price of the car was £108,672.51. Mr S made an advanced payment of £13,000, so the 
amount of credit financed on this agreement was £96,672.51 payable over 46 monthly 
repayments of £1,103.94 and an optional final payment of £52,295.80.
Mr S said that since acquiring the car its experienced a number of faults. He said the faults 
included suspension issues, overheating issues and problems with the roof and brakes. 
In January 2022 Mr S raised a complaint to BMW about the problems with his car. In March 
2022 BMW issued a final response to Mr S. They didnt uphold the complaint. BMW said Mr 
S didnt provide any evidence that the issues were present or developing at the point of 
supply, and as the complaint was raised over 18 months after he was supplied the car, they 
felt it was Mr S responsibility to prove the car was faulty.
In August 2022, following diagnostics and job sheets from repairs to the car, provided by Mr 
S, BMW decided to uphold Mr S complaint and agreed to a rejection of the car. 
To resolve the issues BMW offered to take the car back and settle the agreement with Mr S. 
BMW would also refund Mr S deposit and the three rentals made whilst the car was in the 
garage, with 8% simple interest. BMW also agreed to compensate Mr S £300 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr S brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr S 
says he wants BMW to compensate him for the difference in value if he was to acquire it 
now, as he believes the value of the car has increased by approximately £35,000. Mr S says 
he should be put in the same financial position in consideration that the value of the car has 
since increased.
Our investigator recommended that Mr S complaint should be upheld in part. They agreed 
that BMW needed to put things right and honour their offer, but didnt think it was fair to 
expect BMW to pay for a change in market conditions.
Unhappy with our investigators view, Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman. Mr S says, in summary, that BMW should refund to him all of the monthly 
repayments hes made because the car was faulty from the start.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BMW is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BMW supplied Mr S with a brand-new car, priced in excess of 
£100,000. With this in mind, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could be used free from any issues for a reasonable period of time.
Mr S provided evidence of repairs carried out on the car, and BMW have since upheld Mr S 
complaint about the cars quality. From the evidence provided Im persuaded the car was 
faulty and so I think it was fair that BMW upheld Mr S complaint.
Both parties are in agreement that Mr S car wasnt of satisfactory quality, so what appears 
to be in dispute now are the details of BMWs offer to resolve Mr S complaint.  
In an email to our investigator dated 4 August 2022, to resolve Mr S complaint BMW offered 
the following:
Mr S to return the car to the dealer and to settle the agreement, discharging any 
financial obligations Mr S has on the car
BMW to refund Mr S deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
BMW to refund three months rentals to Mr S and pay 8% interest from the date of 
payment to the date settlement
BMW to compensate Mr S £300 for the stress and inconvenience caused
Mr S says BMWs offer was unfair because hed be left in a worse financial position as the 
value of the car had increased by around £35,000.
The dealer provided confirmation that the car was with them for around 81 days due to the 
issues with it. A repairing garage also confirmed that theyd had the car for around 18 days.BMWs offer includes a three-month rental refund. Considering the car was with the dealer 
for 81 days, I think this is fair in the circumstances as it fairly covers that period. I 
acknowledge Mr S was provided with a courtesy car for most of the time the car was being 
repaired, but inconsideration for the loss of enjoyment and likely impaired use whilst some of 
the issues were presenting themselves, I think BMWs offer is reasonable. 
BMW also offered £300 in compensation for the stress and inconvenience. I think this is 
reasonable for the time the car was in the third-party garage and for the inconvenience 
caused because of the time Mr S would have spent trying to sort out the faults on the car. 
I acknowledge Mr S strength of feeling about the increase in value of his car, therefore 
acquiring the same model would likely cost him more. However, Im not persuaded itd be 
fair to ask BMW to cover the rise in market value. The 8% interest on the refunds of the 
deposit and monthly rentals accounts for a reasonable level of lost interest for the payments 
made. However, I think its right that Mr S pays for usage of the car during the time the car 
was with him. And likewise, if the car had fallen in value, I wouldnt consider it was 
reasonable to expect Mr S to have to receive less than what hed paid in order to reflect a 
market decrease.
BMWs system notes show that Mr S requested a rejection of the car when he first raised the 
issues with BMW in January 2022, and Mr S said had they settled things sooner hed 
probably not have suffered much impact from the changes in the market value of the car. 
Ive thought about this carefully, however as the issues were presented to BMW around 18 
months after supply, Im satisfied that BMW decided to uphold the complaint once Mr S was 
able to provide them with the evidence required. 
All things considered, Im in agreement with our investigator that BMWs offer to resolve Mr 
S complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint in part and instruct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as BMW Finance to fulfil their offer to resolve Mr S complaint as per their 
email to our investigator dated 4 August 2022 and as summarised below:
Receive the car from Mr S and end the hire purchase agreement 
Refund to Mr S his deposit paid on the agreement
Reimburse to Mr S the value of three rentals that he paid on the agreement 
Pay £300 Compensation to Mr S for any stress and inconvenience caused 
Pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds and reimbursements calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  trading as BMW Finance considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it 
should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Benjamin JohnOmbudsman