DRN-2003025
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions 
made from his account. And hed like a refund. 
What happened
Mr S says that eight online card payments totalling £500 were made using his NatWest debit 
card to a gambling company, Ill call H, between the 29 February and 3 March 2020. He was 
also credited £30 in return from H. 
Mr S explains that hes never carried out any transactions with H, but hes previously had a 
gambling account with a different provider. 
Mr S contacted NatWest on the 3 March 2020 to query the disputed transactions. But on 
investigating NatWest concluded that Mr S most likely authorised them. The bank said that 
Mr S had two gambling accounts with H and theyd previously advised him about keeping his 
details safe.
 
Mr S didnt accept NatWests response so complained to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator asked Mr S more 
details about how his card details could have been compromised  Mr S explains that on the 
day of the first disputed transaction he spent most of the day out with friends and his debit 
card was stored in a bag. He said its possible they could have gained his card details this 
way  and also accessed to his mobile phone which didnt have any security on it.
 
On gathering more information our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.  In summary 
he said that Mr S had two gambling accounts registered with H, on balance he thought Ms S 
had been notified about a declined transaction to H during the disputed transactions and he 
was surprised Mr S hadnt noticed the transactions sooner.
Ms S didnt accept our investigators conclusion. He agreed that he couldnt explain why 
there were two accounts in his name at H or why the fraudster would have returned funds to 
his account. But he wanted a second opinion on the case, therefore its been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine details were used to 
make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case, the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017, say that is not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him 
liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than 
not that Mr S consented to the transactions being made
.
Im satisfied that there is a possible compromise for Mr Ss long card number and his CVV 
code. Mr S has explained that his card was kept in his bag on the day of the first disputed 
transaction and I accept its possible for his card details to have copied via this route. But 
from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-Ive seen evidence from H that Mr S had two gambling accounts with them. Both of 
these accounts match in a number of significant areas with the personal details Mr S 
has given this service. Including his address, date of birth and email address. On one 
of the two accounts Mr Ss phone number is also the same. If a fraudster had opened 
both of these accounts I find it very unusual theyd use Mr Ss actual contact details. 
-Mr Ss second account with H was opened on the 19 February 2020 but the first 
transaction to H is made on the 29 February 2020. If a fraudster had opened this 
account I wouldnt expect them to wait nine days before depositing using Mr Ss card. 
-Ive seen evidence that to register an account with H a confirmation email is sent to 
the customers inbox. This means its highly likely that when Mr Ss account was 
opened with H on the 19 February 2020 an email was sent to his inbox and his email 
address was confirmed.
-On the 29 February 2020 a transaction to H for £30 was declined. On the same day 
its recorded in NatWests contact notes that Mr S confirmed a transaction on that 
day to be genuine. According to Mr Ss statement this is only transaction which takes 
place on the 29 February 2020  and therefore on balance I think this is the 
transaction that was confirmed as genuine. For this be a fraudster theyd either need 
access to Mr Hs phone to reply to the text message or know his security details to 
make phone contact with NatWest. Both scenarios seem unlikely. 
-NatWests online banking records show that Mr S logged on a number of times 
during the disputed transactions  including on the 29 February 2020. Mr S says he 
tried to make contact with NatWest to notify them about the disputed transactions on 
the 29 February 2020  however theres no evidence of this. I find it odd he waited so 
long before notifying them about the transactions. 
-Mr S explains that he normally accesses his online banking and online activity via his 
mobile network provider, Ill call V. The evidence from H indicates that some of the 
online gambling activity was carried out via V. 
-During the disputed transactions Mr S received a £30 credit from H  I find it strange 
that a fraudster would withdraw funds to Mr Ss account when theres no evidence 
they had access to his online banking or his debit card. I also find the overall 
disputed activity unusual, because a fraudster wouldnt stand to gain financially from 
these transactions. Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr S authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that NatWest is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman