DRN-2414913
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr Z says he received a letter from Vanquis telling him he had been pre-approved for a 
credit card account. He says he applied but shouldnt have been offered the account as he 
had a poor credit score and County Court Judgements (CCJs) as well as defaults recorded 
against him. Mr Z says he was in obvious financial difficulty and would like his debt written 
off and any interest and charges refunded.
Vanquis says it carried out appropriate checks and says Mr Z didnt have any CCJs and the 
default was registered some 4 years before the application. It says Mr Z told it he had a 
household income of over £30,000 and limited outgoings. Vanquis says it offered a relatively 
modest credit limit of £1,000 and Mr Z made required payments.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought appropriate checks were carried out and the credit limit hadnt been increased. And 
also thought whilst Mr Zs credit file was not perfect, he didnt have any CCJs and the 
default was of some age.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view and says he had a number of payday loans and it ought to 
have been obvious he was in financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders ought to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit application. 
Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of lending and the amount. Im 
satisfied that Mr Z applied for a credit facility rather than for example a loan or mortgage and 
so I accept in those circumstances any checks would not have been as detailed.
I can see that Mr Z declared a household income of over £30,000 and told Vanquis he had 
relatively low outgoings. I can also see that Vanquis carried out its own checks and 
assessed the affordability of the application. I appreciate Mr Z says he had CCJs and 
defaults but having looked at Mr Zs credit file I dont that he did have a CCJ and that the 
default was some time before this application.
I appreciate that Mr Z does have adverse information recorded on his credit file, but I dont 
think that means that Vanquis ought not to have approved the credit application. Im satisfied 
that appropriate checks were carried out that were proportionate to the type of lending and 
that a relatively modest credit facility of £1,000 was approved. I also think it appears that Mr 
Z made regular required payments which provides further evidence that the lending was 
affordable at the time of the application.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically and Mr 
Z can contact Vanquis to discuss any such difficulties and options available to him.
Overall, I dont think Vanquis acted irresponsibly by approving Mr Zs application. So, it 
follows that I cant fairly order it to either write off the debt or refund any charges or interest 
which I think were applied in line with the agreed account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman