DRN-3668970
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) have mishandled and 
unfairly declined their legal expenses insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B wished to pursue a trespass claim against their neighbours following 
damage to a wall that they said was on their land. The wall has since been rebuilt by 
Mr and Mrs B, who are now pursuing their neighbours for the cost of the rebuild and 
associated legal fees.
However, UIA initially said the trespass claim would not be covered as it was 
recommended by Mr and Mrs Bs surveyor that a claim of adverse possession be 
brought instead, as there was a risk that the boundary regarding whose land the wall 
was built could be challenged. Mr and Mrs B submitted a prospects assessment from 
their own solicitor in February 2020 who considered they had reasonable prospects of 
pursuing a claim against their neighbours (albeit they did not specify which legal claim 
that would be), so UIA sought a barristers opinion in May 2020.
The barrister advised that he was unable to give prospects with regards to establishing 
the boundary because Mr and Mrs B would first need to instruct an expert survey to 
show that their April 1928 plan was used for the conveyance of their property, and that 
this pre-dated the conveyance of the neighbours property. However, the barrister also 
said that Mr and Mrs B could claim to have adversely possessed the land as of 1990, 
which would have a 65% chance of succeeding in court.
UIA requested that Mr and Mrs B obtain the further evidence required by the barrister 
with regards to establishing the boundary for a trespass claim. But Mr and Mrs B did 
not provide the specific evidence required. As a result, the insurer declined the claim, 
as the only aspect of their dispute that had any reasonable prospects was an adverse 
possession claim, which was not an insured event under the policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she thought that UIA ought to reconsider the 
claim given the barrister had opined 65% prospects of success for adverse possession. 
She also said that it should fall to be considered under the property damage section of 
the policy if a trespass claim could not be pursued. UIA disagreed, so the matter was 
escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022. I said I was minded 
to reach a different outcome to the invesitgator as I didnt indend upholding it. I set out 
the following reasoning:
In terms of property disputes, the policy terms and conditions state that UIA will 
cover
3. Property
A dispute relating to visible property which you or your family own following
An event which causes physical damage to your or your familys 
visible property including your home
A public or private nuisance or trespass provided that where any 
boundary is in dispute, you have proof of where the boundary lies.
The barrister advised that he couldnt determine whether there were any 
reasonable prospects of establishing that the wall fell within Mr and Mrs Bs 
boundary without first receiving further evidence.
Mr and Mrs B provided further details from their surveyor, as well as further 
pictures from an ordnance survey. UIA passed this along to the barrister, who 
said it did not fulfil what he said would be required to determine prospects, 
namely:
a. Evidence that the April 1928 plan was used for a conveyance of 
No.150 and when.
b. Evidence to support the April 1928 plan pre-dating No.148 boundaries 
being set.
c. An expert report plotting the plans boundaries onto the features on 
the ground.
As the requested information has not been submitted by Mr and Mrs B, it still 
cannot be said that there is any reasonable prospect of establishing that they 
own the strip of land where the wall was built. Therefore, it cannot be said that 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim satisfies the requirements of cover under the Property 
section of being a dispute about property which you or your family own as 
they have not been able to evidence that they do in fact own the relevant land.
The policy sets out that it is for Mr and Mrs B to submit the evidence to show 
where the boundary lies if this is in dispute (which it is here). But they have not 
supplied the necessary evidence required by the barrister to make a proper 
determination on this. As a result, I do not think it was unreasonable for UIA to 
decline cover for a trespass claim, given that prospects could not be 
established with regards to clearly establishing the boundary, and because 
there is no policy cover generally for establishing where a boundary lies.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have had their own surveyor consider the 
matter, who said:
The title deeds show a dimension for the width of the properties front boundary 
and from an assessed perpendicular line from the property to the front 
boundary, coincidently, gave the said dimension to the far side of the brick pier 
on the boundary in question, which indicates the wall / boundary line is within 
150s demise. However, as the boundary between 150 & 152 could be 
challenged I went with the more certain route of adverse possession [My 
emphasis added].
I appreciate that the preference for a claim of adverse possession was 
considered the safer option rather than being the only option. However, claiming adverse possession would effectively be an acknowledgment that the 
strip of land on which the wall was positioned didnt belong to Mr and Mrs B, 
such that they now wish to adversely possess it. There was therefore doubt 
surrounding the ownership of the strip of land, or at least it could not 
categorically be stated by the surveyor that it belonged to Mr and Mrs B.
The barrister also said that a claim for adverse possession was an option open 
to Mr and Mrs B, for which he considered there to be 65% prospects of 
success. However, adverse possession is not an insured event under the 
policy. The property section of cover requires the insured to already own the 
property in dispute, which would therefore not extend to cover a claim that 
seeks to adversely possess the property title from somebody else. The same 
also applies to a claim for damaged property  i.e. it must first be shown that 
the damaged property is actually owned by the insured. So, I do not consider 
UIA have acted unfairly by declining to cover this either.
Mr and Mrs B say they are not claiming for adverse possession, and neither 
would they categorise their claim as a boundary dispute. Theyve said it is a 
money claim for their neighbours to cover the costs of the wall which they 
removed. But Im afraid there is no such insured event under the legal 
protection section of their policy. The only section that would feasibly cover 
such a scenario is the Property disputes section (set out earlier in this decision). 
But as Ive already outlined above, this cannot apply in these circumstances 
given that the professionals cannot say with any certainty who the land belongs 
to, so it cannot be said that Mr and Mrs B own the disputed property.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B dispute this, and feel they have enough evidence to 
demonstrate that the land belongs to them. But Im afraid their view is not 
supported by the opinion of the appointed professionals that have considered 
this matter.
Therefore, Im not persuaded that UIA have unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim in these circumstances. If they are subsequently able to provide further 
evidence in line with what counsel required to determine prospects for a 
trespass claim, then I would expect the insurer to pass this on for further 
consideration. But overall Im not satisfied that UIA has done anything 
substantially wrong or can be said to have mishandled Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
I note that Mr and Mrs B have raised several concerns about the service they 
received from the initial solicitor appointed by UIA (Jane). However, the role of 
this service is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in light of the policy 
terms to determine whether they have fulfilled their obligations reasonably and 
dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of legal advice or 
service provided by solicitors, as the actions of such legal professionals falls 
under the remit of the Legal Ombudsman.
Having considered UIAs handling of matters, I can see that they have looked 
into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns as and when they were raised, and have also 
funded the cost of further opinions (such as that of the barrister), as well as 
passing along further evidence when it was submitted by Mr and Mrs B. So, 
overall Im not persuaded that theyve done anything substantially wrong, or that 
would warrant an award of compensation.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, who understandably feel strongly that they havent been treated fairly. But I do not 
intend asking UIA to take any further action. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my 
provisional decision. However, neither party responded with any additional comments 
by the deadline set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments or evidence to submit, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out above in my provisional decision. 
As a result, I will not be asking UAI to take any further action as I do not consider it has 
handled the claim unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman