DRN-3196291
The complaint
Mrs H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard treated her poorly.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont set them out again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says when her husband passed away Barclaycard closed their joint credit card 
account which left her without access to a card. Whilst I can understand this must have been 
a very difficult time for Mrs H, my understanding is the card holder was her husband  she 
was an additional card holder. It was therefore necessary for Barclaycard to close the 
account to further spending when it became aware of the contracting parties passing. I 
accept this may have left Mrs H without access to a card, but I dont consider Barclaycard to 
have acted in error here.
Mrs H decided to open a Barclaycard account in her own name. I can see from 
Barclaycards records she applied on 5 August 2020. She asked for a £3,500 limit and opted 
for paperless statements and alerts by SMS or email.  Mrs H was offered a £200 credit limit, 
which she felt was insulting and impractical. Given what Mrs H has told our service about her 
finances I can understand why she felt this way. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
Barclaycard treated her unfairly. 
Barclaycard has explained when it receives an application and cant validate the income a 
customer has declared it will open an account with a low credit limit while it waits for 
validation documents. Thats what happened here. Barclaycard couldnt validate Mrs Hs 
income, so it opened an account with a £200 credit limit while it waited for her to provide 
bank statements to demonstrate her income. My understanding is Mrs H was asked to 
upload these documents as part of the application and by way of reminder emails, which 
Barclaycard has shown were sent on 7 and 12 August 2020 and 17 September 2020. 
Ultimately Barclaycard didnt receive what it needed so it decided to close the account on 
4 October 2020. I dont find this inherently unfair or unreasonable given Barclaycards 
obligation to lend responsibly. 
Naturally when Mrs H found out her account would be closed, she was dissatisfied. Shes 
explained she had previously been the victim of fraud and receives various scam emails, so 
she didnt think Barclaycards emails were genuine, or necessarily see or take notice of 
them. Mrs H is of the opinion Barclaycard should have contacted her by other means such 
as by letter, secure message, a notification within online banking or by calling. I take her 
point that this would have been helpful for her. But she opted in for emails, emails are a 
durable medium and its for Barclaycard to choose how to communicate with its customers. 
So while I accept Barclaycard could have communicated with Mrs H differently, Im not 
satisfied it was wrong to communicate in the way it did.
Mrs H is unhappy with the way her complaint was handled. This is primarily because 
Barclaycard didnt issue a final response letter. It did, however, issue a letter setting out 
Mrs Hs right to contact our service if it didnt respond by a deadline, which is what she did. 
So like our investigator, Im not persuaded Barclaycards poor service in this regard led to a 
loss for Mrs H. In any case, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity (or ancillary to a 
regulated activity) so even if I thought Barclaycard had caused Mrs H a loss here it wouldnt 
be within my powers to require Barclaycard to compensate her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman