DRN-3974894
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with an 
insurance claim she made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms R got in touch with Lloyds after a fire caused damage to her home. Lloyds 
accepted a claim and took steps to put the damage right.
During the claim, Ms R has made three complaints. She referred all of them to this 
Service. In this decision Ill only be considering the issues she raised within the third 
complaint. Broadly these are related to the availability and suitability of the contractor 
appointed by Lloyds and the impact on the policy of the repairs carried out by Lloyds. 
These are the things Ill focus on.
Lloyds appointed contractors that had to travel for around three hours each day to 
reach Ms Rs property and return home. Lloyds said it had reduced options for 
contractors at the time and, in any case, it had no impact on Ms Rs claim.
Its for Lloyds to decide which contractors it appoints. Any issues about working 
conditions such as travel time, is a matter for Lloyds and the contractor to resolve 
between themselves. I would consider it further if it had a material impact on the 
claim, for example if it led to delays or poor workmanship.
I havent seen anything to show the travel time had a material impact on Ms Rs 
claim. Whilst she has concerns about the standard of work carried out, I cant 
consider those concerns in this complaint. But I dont think theres any suggestion 
that the standard of work was impacted by the travel time.
Ms R is concerned about terms of her policy which say Lloyds wont pay to put right 
faulty workmanship or defective materials  or provide cover if her home is in a poor 
state of repair. She says the work Lloyds carried out amounts to faulty workmanship 
and used defective materials  and has left her home in a poor state of repair.
Again, I cant consider the standard of work carried out in this complaint. But I dont 
think Lloyds has sought to rely on any of these policy terms, so they havent had any 
impact on the claim.
If Lloyds were to apply these kinds of terms, I would expect it to take into account the 
reason why there was a problem at Ms Rs home  and if that resulted from the work 
its own contractors had carried. If so, it may not be fair and reasonable for it to apply 
such a term. But unless or until it did so, this is all hypothetical, so I dont think theres 
any further action for Lloyds to take on this point at the moment.
Overall Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly in relation to the third complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman