DRN-4127274
The complaint
Mr B, through his representative, complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk (Valour), lent to him when he could not afford it.     
What happened
Mr B applied for one loan in November 2020. He was offered £1,000 but took £400 
repayable at £100 a month over eight months. The loan was repaid on time. 
Mr Bs representative complained in October 2022 and Valour issued its final response letter 
in late December 2022. It explained the checks it had carried out and gave some details 
about the telephone call Mr B had with one of its representatives in November 2020. 
That had been a comprehensive call and the Valour representative had questioned Mr Bs 
high disposable income from the checks carried out during that call. Mr B had explained 
what he spent it on  discretionary spending. And so, the Valour representative had altered 
some of the figures to reflect the high spend in the category labelled socialising and 
entertainment with which Mr B had agreed. Still the loan at £100 a month looked affordable 
and the funds were credited to Mr Bs account. 
After this Mr Bs representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of 
our adjudicators did not think that Valour had made an irresponsible decision to lend Mr B 
£400. Mr Bs representative said: 
We dont agree that the initial decision to lend to the consumer was responsible, he 
had defaulted accounts, credit recovery accounts, a number of missed payments, 
cash advances and other short-term loans in the 3 months prior which should have 
raised red flags with the lender to do further checks.
Had they done further checks they would have seen that the disposable income was 
less than mentioned due to the other loans etc.
Our adjudicator issued a second view in which she addressed some of the points it had 
made. Her view remained unchanged. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr B s income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
My view is that none of these bullet points applied to Mr Bs situation as he had an income of 
around £2,800 a month after tax which Valour had verified and I do not consider that to have 
been a low income. Plus, this was a first loan for a relatively modest sum over a relatively 
modest term. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B . But a pattern would not have 
developed here as Mr B took one loan only. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr B  could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr B s complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and I explain here. 
Valour carried out proportionate checks as it verified his income and checked his credit file 
which did not show any elements to prompt it to be unduly concerned. There was nothing 
there to indicate that Mr B was in financial difficulties or had been falling behind in his 
payments. 
The adverse entries (defaults in 2016 and 2017) related to accounts which were well before 
he applied for this one and a lender such as Valour would have been used to lending to 
customers with some adverse credit history. 
Our adjudicator has made reference in her second view to a default in May 2020 which 
I have not traced in the credit search Valour did. If I am wrong on that point, still it would not alter my view as one default a few months before Mr B applied as a new customer for a 
£400 loan would not be a reason for Valour to refuse the loan or consider that further checks 
were required. 
The telephone call Mr B had with Valour in November 2020 was recorded and we have 
received a copy of that call which I have listened to. 
Mr B confirmed several elements of the application and explained his income and 
expenditure. He was single, working full time, had no dependents or child-care or child 
maintenance costs. He lived at home with his parents and contributed to the household but 
in an informal way  he paid some money to them but he did not pay for Council Tax, home 
insurance, utilities, internet or home TV contracts or TV licence. 
Valour was aware he spent around £789 a month on credit commitment costs one of which 
was a hire purchase agreement for his car. He accepted he spent a lot on socialising, 
holidays, clothes, and other discretionary spending.  
The income and expenditure assessment Valour carried out indicated that Mr B had enough 
disposable income to repay the £100 a month. It said in its FRL: The assessment 
demonstrated a total monthly income of £2800.00 and a total monthly expenditure of 
£2116.39, including your existing debt repayments. This means that your available monthly 
surplus was £683.61.
I do not consider that the submissions Mr Bs representative has made on his behalf have 
been made out. Reviewing its complaint letter, I have seen that many of the loans listed 
showing dependency on credit were taken out after this loan with Valour was approved on 
14 November 2020. And so are irrelevant for the assessment of the sale of this loan. 
In all the circumstances I have decided that I do not uphold Mr B s complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman