DRN-2892267
The complaint
 Mr H complains about the service provided by a broker, Brightside Insurance Services 
Limited (Brightside), in respect of his motor insurance policy. Mr Hs complaint is about the 
quote he received for a change to his policy and the high cost of cancellation of the policy.
What happened
 Mr H was considering changing his vehicle and phoned Brightside to discuss the additional 
premium. Mr H then received a revised financial agreement from his credit provider that 
indicated his revised monthly premium was significantly higher than that he thought was 
quoted online. Brightside said the sum he had seen in the online quote was the additional 
premium, not a new premium. Mr H didnt feel the difference had been made clear to him 
and said he would have cancelled his policy immediately given the significant increase. 
Brightside said it would cost £376 to cancel the policy including commission (£122), a 
cancellation fee (£60) and the fee for making a change to his policy (£17.50), and the time 
Mr H was covered. Mr H then cancelled his policy.
Mr H was unhappy with this cost. Brightside said Mr H was quoted £1,056 as the additional 
premium due (including the £17.50 fee for the change) and amended policy documents were 
emailed to Mr H at the same time, referring to the additional premium.
 
Brightside noted that as they were not the insurer of the policy, they couldnt consider the 
amount of additional premium itself. But Brightside did say that when Mr H discussed the 
additional premium over the phone with them, they didnt consider Mr Hs specific policy 
information. And they didnt call him back subsequently as they had said they would. They 
also considered that they could have made it clearer to Mr H that the £1,056 was an 
additional premium. In recognition of this and the overall level of service provided, Brightside 
offered to waive the fee to change (£17.50), the cancellation fee (£60) and to halve the 
commission (£61). So the amount Mr H would have to pay reduced from £376 to £238.
Mr H was unhappy at Brightsides response and complained to this service. The main 
elements of his complaint were that the size of the additional premium hadnt been made 
clear to him in the online quote nor subsequent discussion with Brightside. He also didnt feel 
that Brightsides offer was sufficient. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. They concluded Brightside should do 
more to put things right, by putting Mr H in the same financial position had he 
cancelled the policy at the point the change he put through took effect. Brightside 
said this would reduce the amount Mr H had to pay to £113.26. This comprised the 
cost of cover provided (less what Mr H had paid in premiums) together with amounts 
for commission and the cancellation fee payable under the terms of the policy.
Brightside disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They noted that while they had acknowledged they could have been 
clearer about the additional premium, Mr H did process the change to his policy online. They 
also felt (from the screenshots of what Mr H saw when obtaining the quote and making the 
change) that it was clear to Mr H what the additional premium was and that a change to the 
policy was being made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether Brightside has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The main part of Mr Hs complaint is that it wasnt clear to him that when he obtained his 
quote online for his change of vehicle what the impact on his premium would be. And that 
this also wasnt clear from his subsequent discussion with Brightside.
 
Ive considered what Mr H has told us, together with what Brightside have said. Ive noted 
that Brightside have acknowledged that they could have been clearer in communicating the 
impact of the change to Mr H. And Ive also noted that they have offered to reduce the 
amount that Mr H would have to pay.
 
Ive looked at the insurance documents that were sent to Mr H when he made the change 
online. I can see that the covering letter is headed Heres confirmation of the changes you 
made to your policy. I can also see that it refers to: Your additional premium amount is 
below. Further references are made to your additional premium now due is £1056.71 and 
that the changes will affect the amount paid through monthly instalments. Similarly, the 
Insurance Schedule refers to additional [premium]. 
While I think these documents do indicate that there was an additional premium, having 
listened to the call between Mr H and Brightside when he became aware of the impact on his 
monthly payments its clear that he wasnt expecting the significant increase and he was 
expecting significantly lower monthly payments (about half). Its also clear from the call that 
he wouldnt have put through the change had he been aware of the impact and that he 
therefore asked what would be the cost of cancellation.
Ive also looked at the sceenshots provided by Brightside in support of their disagreement 
with our investigators view. Ive noted that they arent screenshots of the actual quote Mr H 
obtained at the time and what he would have seen, but an illustrative example of a change. 
They also use an example of where a quote is then taken up by a single payment by credit 
card  not, as in Mr Hs case, monthly payments. So its not possible to form a definitive view 
about whether Mr H was presented with a clear indication of the increase in premium. But 
looking at the screenshot example, while it refers to amended details and amended policy, 
there is no mention that I can see of additional [premium]  it only refers to your premium. 
While your premium could be interpreted in different ways, it could be understood to be the 
amount payable for the policy as a whole - not additional to the existing sum. So, despite the 
caveats Ive mentioned, Im not persuaded from this evidence that it was clear to Mr H when 
he put through the change that it was an additional premium, which is the key issue in Mr Hs 
complaint. Particularly given what Ive noted about Mr Hs discussion with Brightside.
 
Having reached this conclusion, then Ive considered what would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome. As I think Mr H would have cancelled his policy had he been 
fully aware of the additional premium, then Ive considered what financial impact there 
was from his not immediately cancelling and looking for alternative cover. Ive noted 
that Brightside have provided this service with an estimate (£113.26) of the cost had 
Mr H simply cancelled his policy at the same date as his original change took effect. I think its fair and reasonable that this is the most that Brightside should charge Mr H, 
rather than the £238 that Brightside have offered.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Services Limited to:
Charge Mr H no more than the sum of £113.26 in respect of the cancellation of his 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman