DRN-2151349
The complaint
Mr T complains about a loan from Lloyds Bank PLC which he says was made irresponsibly.
He wants a freeze on interest and an affordable payment arrangement.
What happened
Mr T tells us that he took out a top up loan in March 2019 for over £18,000. He says hes 
got a gambling problem. He doesnt believe that the checks made by Lloyds were adequate.
And he feels the loan should never have been offered to him.
Lloyds told us that the application had been made online. And that Mr Ts application had 
passed its credit reference checks and internal scoring process. It said it hadnt been aware 
of Mr Ts gambling issue until August 2019. And that it had since taken steps to offer him 
assistance in the repayment of the loan including a freeze on interest and a payment 
arrangement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Lloyds 
had carried out checks. And that Mr Ts existing loan with it had a good repayment history. 
She found that Lloyds hadnt known about Mr Ts gambling problem at the time the loan was 
granted. And that his credit file didnt show adverse information or suggest thered be any 
difficulty in him making repayments.
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with Mr T and accept that it can be very difficult to realise when a perfectly 
normal leisure activity such as gambling, becomes out of control. And I understand the upset 
and stress that this can cause along with the attendant financial difficulties.
I think its helpful to explain that where theres a complaint about irresponsible or 
unaffordable lending, the decision I have to make is based on the circumstances at the time 
the loan was made. And not upon subsequent events.
In short, Ive to determine what a business knew, or ought reasonably to have known, when 
it made the lending decision. And whether based on those factors it was reasonable for it to 
provide the loan.
Before granting a loan, a business is expected to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to see if the lending is affordable for the applicant. Theres no fixed list of checks and 
each business would be entitled to carry out such enquiries as it considered necessary in the 
light of the particular circumstances.
What is reasonable and proportionate depends, amongst other things, on the size of the 
loan, the cost of the repayments, the applicants lending history, and what the business 
already knew about the applicant.
The application made by Mr T was carried out online. Mr T provided details of his monthly 
salary. Although it seems he provided no details of outgoings. But lenders typically make 
certain assumptions about expenditure (in addition to that information which a consumer 
provides). So that even where a consumer doesnt declare outgoings there will be a sum for 
living expenses factored into the assessment.
Ive seen that Lloyds carried out a credit check and applied its internal scoring process to Mr 
Ts application. Whilst Mr T has said that hed applied numerous times previously  and 
been rejected - each application would be separately assessed on the date of application. 
And as the elements which affect credit scores are frequently updated or changed its not 
unusual for an application to have been declined before later being accepted.
Ive looked at Mr Ts credit record. And at the time the loan was made I didnt see any 
adverse information or other cause for concern which mightve alerted Lloyds to potential 
future problems. And it also had the benefit of seeing how Mr T had discharged his existing 
debt with it. This showed a good repayment record.
The loan settled the outstanding debt with Lloyds. And the £10,000 remaining was then 
largely used to settle other debts. Again its not usual for individuals to seek the convenience 
of consolidating several existing loans into one payment.
Whilst Lloyds didnt ask to see Mr Ts bank statements before granting the loan, had it done 
so it wouldve confirmed his salary. And also that he appeared to be adequately managing 
his finances. Whilst living up to the level of his income, he seems to have had a small credit 
balance at the end of most months. And I wouldnt expect that the presence of gambling 
transactions on a statement  in the absence of other factors relating to vulnerability or 
affordability  to be sufficient to prevent a loan being offered.
The information with which Ive been provided, indicates that Lloyds was unaware of Mr Ts 
gambling issue until August 2019.  My understanding is that Lloyds has subsequently 
referred Mr T to its Customer Priority Team. And that it also agreed a repayment plan and a 
freeze on interest whilst it conducted a full budget assessment.
In summary, I find that Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate checks prior to 
granting this loan. And that based on the information available at the time, it made a 
reasonable decision to provide the credit to Mr T. Accordingly, I dont find this loan was 
made irresponsibly or that it was unaffordable. I dont uphold this complaint.
Going forward, wed expect Lloyds to show forbearance and due consideration to Mr T in his 
efforts to repay the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman