DRN-4068393
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy about the advice she was given to transfer her private medical insurance 
cover to a new insurer.
What happened
Ms D held a private medical insurance policy with a business Ill call insurer X. Shed held 
this policy for many years. 
During 2019, Ms D became dissatisfied with insurer X  both in terms of the service shed 
received and the level of premiums. She approached ActiveQuote Limited to explore 
cheaper options, and also approached another insurer, insurer Y, to discuss her needs.  
Following several conversations with ActiveQuotes adviser Ms D transferred her cover to a 
new insurer Ill call insurer Z. Her new policy, which started in March 2020, was incepted on 
a moratorium basis. She says she only realised the cover shed been recommended by 
ActiveQuotes adviser wasnt suitable for her needs when she contacted insurer Z about a 
potential claim.
Ms D complained to ActiveQuote who agreed the adviser hadnt been as clear as he could 
have been. It offered to cover the cost of a private consultation with one of Ms Ds doctors.
Mr D remained unhappy. She said shes now in a much worse position without cover for a 
life-threatening condition. She says she discussed her health with the adviser, and he should 
have known the policy he recommended wasnt suitable for her.
An investigator here considered her complaint. He wasnt satisfied the policy recommended 
to Ms D was wholly suitable for her needs, but he was persuaded Ms D wanted to transfer 
her cover to a different insurer, in exchange for a lower premium. He thought ActiveQuote 
should honour its offer to cover the cost of Ms Ds visit to one of her doctors and should also 
pay Ms D £300.00 for the trouble and upset caused.
ActiveQuote agreed with our investigators findings, but Ms D did not. She calculated she 
might need the equivalent of £71,100.00 of private medical treatment for the conditions that 
are now excluded. Because Ms D disagreed, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.  In my provisional decision, which forms 
part of this decision, I said.
Its clear from the call recordings Ive listened to, Ms D was unhappy with insurer X, both in 
terms of the cost of her policy and the service shes received. This is a strong theme of her 
conversations with ActiveQuotes adviser so Im conscious she was clearly dissatisfied with 
her existing arrangements.  
Alongside speaking with ActiveQuotes adviser over many months, shed also approached 
an alternative insurer, insurer Y to explore her cover options. However, Im satisfied the cost 
of her policy wasnt her only consideration.
In a conversation with ActiveQuotes adviser, Ms D made it clear she didnt want to rely on 
the NHS and that one of her conditions was potentially life threatening. During one call the 
adviser appears to be researching the conditions shed mentioned on the internet, so Im 
satisfied he was aware of her health problems. 
Ms D also told the adviser on multiple occasions about the medication she needed to take 
every day. And although at the time she said her conditions were being managed by her GP, 
she was clearly aware of the on-going risks posed to her health. She talked to the adviser 
about being taken to hospital in an ambulance due to her heart condition and wanted to 
make sure ambulance transfers from the NHS to a private hospital were included in her 
cover. 
Having listened to the calls between Ms D and ActiveQuote, it seems ActiveQuotes adviser 
wasnt as knowledgeable about how medical insurance policies work in practice as he 
perhaps wanted Ms D to believe. And he was less than balanced in his comments about her 
existing insurer, insurer X, to the point I consider it reasonable Ms D was encouraged to 
believe she was being treated unfairly and paying unnecessarily high premiums for a very 
basic level of cover. 
And in the sales calls with the adviser in January 2020  three calls on the same day - she 
reminds him that shes not a good prospect as shes had lots of things wrong. She talks 
about recent claims shes made and treatment shes due to start. The adviser explains that 
because of her recent claims she cant switch to another policy (on no worse terms). He 
goes on to explain that a transfer to a fully underwritten policy would exclude existing 
conditions, so the other option is a moratorium scheme.
But when Ms D refers to the moratorium scheme rules its clear shes confused. She 
believes the moratorium means she cant claim for pre-existing conditions initially for three 
years. The adviser attempts to corrects her but says the moratorium period is two years not 
three and goes on to say the moratorium would be best for her, but she must realise she 
needs to go for a two year period. Im satisfied Ms D genuinely believed shed be able to 
claim for her pre-existing conditions after two years not least because she contacted insurer 
Z towards the end of the two-year period about making a claim for one of the conditions 
shed discussed with ActiveQuotes adviser.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ds strong desire to find alternative cover. And I appreciate the 
demands and needs statement and the policy information ActiveQuotes adviser sent to her, 
clearly referred to medication in the moratorium scheme rules. However, I think it was 
reasonable for Ms D to rely on the advice given to her by the adviser. This was an advised 
sale and under the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), ActiveQuote was under an obligation to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and that any customer, in this case Ms 
D, is entitled to rely on its judgement. ICOBS goes on to say that ActiveQuote should have 
informed Ms D of any of her demands and needs not met by its advice and highlight to her 
any limitations or conditions of the policy. And Im not wholly satisfied this is what happened 
here.In its final response letter of March 2022, ActiveQuote accepts the adviser wasnt as clear as 
he should have been about the moratorium terms when he spoke with Ms D in January 
2020. 
And although ActiveQuote has offered to pay for Ms D to visit a private consultant, along 
with the £300.00 recommended by our investigator, Im not satisfied this goes far enough. I 
think its unlikely Ms D will ever be able to find insurance cover for the conditions she 
manages with daily medication  or if she can, the premium may not be affordable for her. 
Whilst she can call on the NHS to support her on-going needs, she made it clear in her 
conversations with the adviser that isnt what she wanted to do.
Unfortunately, I cannot put Ms D back in the position she would have been in if the transfer 
from insurer X to insurer Z hadnt happened. I cannot direct insurer X to reinstate her cover 
or compel insurer Z to offer her improved terms. That isnt the contract insurer Z entered into 
with her.  
Im also conscious Ms D does have the benefit of cover for new conditions or for pre-existing 
conditions for which she hasnt needed any advice, treatment, medication, or diagnostic 
tests for at least two years from the point the policy with insurer Z started. 
Im also not satisfied awarding Ms D the £71,100.00 shes requested is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. Whilst Ms Ds long-term cover needs have been impacted, I 
cannot say if she would have continued to pay for insurance cover many years into the 
future, given her concerns about the premiums, or that she will need the treatments shes set 
out in her further submissions to me.
So, Ive thought carefully about what ActiveQuote need to do to recognise the impact of the 
poor advice given by its adviser. Ms D is clearly worried about needing treatment for her on-
going health conditions. Shes explained how worried she is that falling ill will mean she has 
to rely on the NHS at a time when its under extreme pressure. She also says shes been 
given additional medication by her doctor due to the impact of this situation on her health.
I therefore direct ActiveQuote to:
Pay Ms D a total of £1000.00 (which includes the £300.00 already recommended by 
our investigator) for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced having 
discovered some of her long-term conditions are no longer covered by insurance. 
And to honour its offer to cover the cost of a private consultation with one of her 
doctors.
ActiveQuote responded and accepted my provisional findings.
Ms D responded but did not agree. She reiterated the impact of ActiveQuotes error on her 
and asked me to reconsider the level of compensation awarded. 
Ive considered Ms Ds most recent testimony carefully and I fully appreciate the frustration, 
anger, and upset she feels towards whats happened. Im very sorry to hear shes recently 
faced delays in accessing NHS care due to some of her medical records having been lost. 
But overall, her later comments dont change my mind about the level of compensation to 
award for ActiveQuotes mistake. As Ive said, I cannot put Ms D back in the position she 
would have been in had this situation not occurred. But my award reflects the substantial 
distress Ms D has experienced because of ActiveQuotes error. Putting things right
ActiveQuote should put things right by following my previous direction. For the avoidance of 
doubt, it should:
Pay Ms D a total of £1000.00 (which includes the £300.00 recommended by our 
investigator)
And honour its offer to cover the cost of a private consultation with one of Ms Ds 
doctors.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct ActiveQuote to put things right as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman