DRN-3958011
The complaint
Mr W complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) failed to execute his instruction 
to purchase units in an investment fund in a timely manner. He says that the information he 
was given about the pricing cut off point was misleading, and as a result he has lost out on 
around £3,500.
What happened
Mr W holds pension savings with HSDL in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). That 
pension is provided on an execution only basis. In other words, Mr W is entirely responsible 
for deciding what investments he wishes to hold, and when to make any changes to his 
holdings. Mr W can provide instructions to HSDL for any changes via its online service, or by 
telephone.
At 9:17am on 13 April 2022 Mr W instructed HSDL to purchase units in a specified 
investment fund. HSDL says that instruction was received after its 9:15am cut of time for 
dealing to take place on that day. So it says that, in accordance with its published policies, it 
placed the trade at the next valuation point, the following day.
Mr W complained to HSDL. He said that the information it provided on its website was 
misleading, and caused him to think that the cut off point for same day trading would be at 
11:15am. So he says he placed his instruction well in advance of that time and that it should 
have been executed the same day. He says that the delay has caused him to lose out on 
around £3,500. HSDL didnt agree with Mr Ws complaint so he brought it to us.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that HSDL had 
acted entirely in line with its published policies when deciding the effective date for Mr Ws 
instruction to be executed. And he didnt agree with Mr W that the wording on HSDLs 
website should have given him a different expectation of those timings. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by HSDL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In deciding complaints such as this I will generally be guided by the written terms and 
conditions that are applicable to the relevant product or service. And so I will start my 
decision by considering what HSDLs published policies suggest should have happened. But 
it is also reasonable for Mr W to rely, to some extent, on the more informal information he 
might be given as part of the online servicing that he was encouraged to use. So I will go on 
to consider that information before reaching my conclusions.
The SIPP that Mr W holds with HSDL makes use of the Halifax Share Dealing Service for 
any buying or selling transactions. The relevant part of the terms and conditions for that 
service, in relation to this complaint, can be found in section 8.14. It says;
We carry out orders in accordance with best execution. Best execution is our 
obligation under the regulatory requirements to take all sufficient steps to obtain, 
when executing orders, the best possible results for our clients on a consistent basis 
in accordance with our Order Execution Policy (OEP).
The relevant part of the OEP is that concerning dealings in Funds (Open-ended Investment 
Companies and Unit Trusts). And it says;
Fund trades can only be executed with the funds management company so market 
counterparties dont compete for these orders. Unlike shares, funds only trade once a 
day. When you buy or sell units in a fund, we send the order to the fund manager for 
execution at the next valuation point. Most funds are priced once a day at the 
Assured Valuation Point (AVP), when its assets are valued and the price per unit is 
set. As an example, for a fund with an AVP of 12 noon, orders would ordinarily need 
to be placed by 11:15am to meet the days cut-off time. Any orders placed after this 
time would not be placed with the Fund Manager until the next working day. Each 
fund can have different AVPs and cut-off times, and if you wish to know what these 
times are you will need to contact us to check prior to trading. The price achieved will 
be confirmed to you within the trade confirmation. 
The AVP for a particular fund is set out in the Fund Prospectus. For the particular fund in 
which Mr W had instructed the purchase to be made, the relevant section of the prospectus 
says;
Each of the Sub-funds will have a regular valuation point at 10 a.m. on each 
Dealing Day.
So I think it is clear that the relevant terms and conditions, when followed through in a logical 
progression as Ive set out above, would lead to a conclusion that there is an AVP for the 
fund at 10am, and so a dealing cut-off would be in place earlier than that time. And based on 
the examples that HSDL provided in its documentation it wouldnt seem to me to be out of 
line that the cut-off point for same day dealing in this particular fund was 9:15am. I think it 
most likely that, had Mr W made enquiries of HSDL as is suggested in the OEP, that would 
have been the information he was given.So based on an assessment of the relevant terms and conditions I think HSDL treated 
Mr Ws instruction correctly. It was received at 9:17am so after the daily trading cut-off. So it 
seems to me that it was right that the purchase was concluded at the AVP for the following 
business day. 
But, as I explained earlier, that shouldnt be the end of my consideration of this complaint. It 
is also reasonable, as Mr W rightly suggests, that I should consider the information that was 
presented to him by HSDL on the online screens he used to place his instruction.
HSDL has provided me with example screens that show the online information that it says 
Mr W would have seen. It says that, on the screen where he would have placed his 
instruction, was the following text;
Your trade will be sent to the Fund Manager and executed in accordance with our 
Order Execution Policy at the price given on the next available valuation point for this 
fund.
But Mr W has given us an additional screen image that appears to show some further 
explanation of how the valuation point will be determined. That text says;
Most funds are priced once a day at the Assured Valuation Point when its assets 
are valued and the price per unit is set. This is often at 12 noon, so orders need to 
be placed by 11.15am to meet the cut off time. Any orders placed after 11:15am 
cannot be placed with the Fund Manager until the next working day. The price 
achieved will be confirmed to you within the trade confirmation.
Mr W says it was reasonable to rely on this information when placing his instruction. He says 
it clearly states that orders needed to be placed by 11:15am to meet the fund cut off time. 
And he says that, since his order was placed around two hours before the 11:15am cut off 
time, it should have been processed that day.
I am sorry to tell Mr W that I dont agree with his conclusions, and think that he has 
misinterpreted the information HSDL provided on the webpage. The information HSDL gave 
was an example  shown by the statement that [my emphasis] This is often at 12 noon. 
That would suggest that there are times, such as we see here, when the valuation point is 
not at 12 noon. And if the valuation point has a different time, it wouldnt be surprising that 
any cut off time is similarly changed.
I dont think that the wording above, that Mr W says he relied upon, contradicts the formal 
terms and conditions that I have set out. I think that, in an attempt to provide a more 
customer friendly approach, HSDL has provided an example, perhaps based on the most 
common valuation point. But I cannot agree with Mr W that the wording above suggests that 
all valuation points will be set at 12 noon, or that all funds would have a dealing cut off at 
11:15am.
So although I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr W, I am not upholding his 
complaint. I think that the way HSDL has treated his instruction was in line with its terms and 
conditions for that service. And I dont think the information provided on the website should 
have reasonably led Mr W to conclude that all funds would apply the same valuation point of 
12 noon.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman