DRN-3199847
The complaint
Ms C complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Pc didnt intervene when 
cashing in a number of investments she held with it; money which she says she 
subsequently lost to scammers. 
What happened
Ms C had recently returned to the UK following the breakdown of a relationship. She is a 
single mother of two and had previously left the finances to her ex-partner. One day she 
came across an advert online to trade in Contracts for Difference (CFDs). She showed 
some interest and was contacted by a number of companies offering their services. Two 
companies persuaded her to invest, Maxigrid Limited and ProfitiX Ltd.
  
During the course of these investments, Ms C was persuaded to cash in existing 
investments held with St. Jamess Place, and invest in CFD trading instead. Between 
January and March 2020, she cashed in over £342,000 of her investments. When she did 
so, she told St. Jamess Place that she was buying a property. 
Ms C lost of all of the money she invested with Maxigrid and ProfitiX. And she turned to St. 
Jamess Place for help and subsequently complained. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong, the banking codes that Ms C had referenced didnt apply to the cashing in of her 
investments; and it paid the monies into an account held by Ms C and it said that was where 
its liability ceased. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She was satisfied that as Ms C had 
previously posed buying a property with her investment funds St. Jamess Place had no 
reason to question her further as she had continually told them this was the reason for her 
withdrawals. She also found it had followed correct procedure when processing the 
withdrawals and St. Jamess Place wasnt the cause of Ms Cs loss. 
Ms C asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she said:
The issue she has with St. Jamess Place is that it is a bank with who she had a very 
close long-standing relationship. She always deferred to it for making decisions 
regarding her savings. 
Before she moved abroad, shed had the same advisor for a number of years. And 
they met upon her return. Ms C was told her advisor was retiring and she would have 
a new adviser. She doesnt believe information was passed on about her 
vulnerability, nor that she needed her savings for her retirement as well as ideally a 
bigger home for her and her children.  
She believes that if shed still had her previous adviser, very gentle questioning from 
them would have allowed her to talk about what was really happening. She believes 
it would have been possible for her previous adviser to break the scammers spell. 
As she was keeping funds for her retirement, she believes St. Jamess Place ought 
to have questioned her more closely when she made the withdrawal requests. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to determine the complaint between Ms C and St. Jamess Place. It isnt my role to 
comment on, or making any finding in relation to, how her complaint has been handled by 
the investigator (of which she also complains). So I wont be making any comment about that 
here. 
Ms C has made substantial submissions about what has happened and the devastating 
impact this has had on her. I dont doubt the difficulties this has caused or how distressing 
this has been. And I want to acknowledge the strength of feeling Ms C has about her 
complaints and the lengths she has gone to in providing further evidence and arguments for 
my consideration. 
My brief summary of what has happened, and the concerns Ms C brought to us isnt meant 
as a discourtesy; it reflective of my considering the crux of Ms Cs complaint about St. 
Jamess Place. 
Ms C has referenced St. Jamess Place being a bank. Although it has a banking arm, her 
complaint concerns the withdrawals she made from several investments held with it  
therefore her complaint is against the investment part of St. Jamess Place, not the bank. 
That means any arguments she has made about banking codes, protocols or bank fraud 
prevention are not relevant to my consideration; she wasnt dealing with the bank nor were 
her investments banking products.  
St. Jamess Place managed a number of investments for Ms C. She had her own personal 
adviser, albeit they had changed just prior to the events complained of. Although St. Jamess 
Place provided Ms C with financial advice and she left it to make decisions about where she 
placed her savings, I havent seen any evidence to show she requested advice in relation to 
the withdrawals she made  in the sense of whether or not it was the right decision for her to 
make. And Im not aware of any obligation for it to provide or offer any. 
Ms C was clear in her instructions to St. Jamess Place, and she told them she needed the 
money for a house purchase; indeed she elaborated on this further when telling St. Jamess 
Place a house purchase had fallen through which she was trying to salvage. Given buying a 
house was one of the aims for her savings, along with retirement, I dont think this ought to 
have prompted further questioning from St. Jamess Place, and it wasnt obligated to 
question her in any event. And she has told us that didnt feel able to tell St. Jamess Place 
what was really going on, so even had it questioned her further Im not persuaded Ms C 
would have opened up - I think she would have continued with the same story. I appreciate 
she feels her previous adviser would have questioned her further and that would likely have 
broken the spell, but I dont think I could fairly uphold her complaint on that basis  her 
previous adviser had retired and so wasnt available for discussion. 
Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable to uphold Ms Cs complaint; St. Jamess Place 
wasnt under any obligation to question or second guess her motives for cashing in her 
investments and she wasnt forthright about what was happening. It was her choice to 
mislead St. Jamess Place that she was buying a house, when she wasnt; and it was 
entitled to rely on what she told it about that in good faith. It followed her instructions as 
given and cashed in her investments accordingly. The proceeds were subsequently paid into 
an account held by Ms C. Overall, Im not persuaded St. Jamess Place did anything wrong 
in that process. I do have a lot of sympathy for the situation in which she finds herself, as did St. Jamess 
Place. But I havent found St. Jamess Place did anything wrong. I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint and I make no award against it. 
 
St. Jamess Place My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman