DRN-3554578
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about the service Lloyds Bank PLC provided when changes were 
made to their contractual monthly mortgage payments following changes to interest rates. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K have a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Following changes to 
interest rates, Lloyds made changes to the contractual monthly payments (CMP) due from 
Mrs K and Mr K. Lloyds wrote to them to let them know. 
Mrs K and Mr K say the letters they received didnt set out the new CMP. They were worried 
about why the amount they were paying had gone down despite interest rates increasing. 
Lloyds said they could forward copies of the letters theyd sent Mrs K and Mr K that did 
contain the CMP information. In fact, Lloyds system didnt allow them to generate copies. 
But they wrote to Mrs K and Mr K on 24 February letting them know the amount of the CMP 
going forward.
Mrs K and Mr K were unhappy theyd been given wrong information Lloyds could provide 
copy letters. And they found the 24 February letter confusing as it said changes had been 
made at their request, which was inaccurate. 
Lloyds apologised for the confusion theyd caused concerning the copy letters and sent    
Mrs K and Mr K £50 compensation and £10 to cover their expenses in communicating with 
Lloyds. They explained the 24 February letter was in standard form and couldnt be 
amended to reflect fully what had happened. But they apologised for the confusion and said 
the information about the CMP it contained was accurate. 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt feel the compensation Lloyds paid was enough to cover the distress 
and inconvenience theyd been caused overall. They felt a letter tailored to their situation 
should have been sent instead of the standard form letter they got. And they were unhappy 
with how their complaint had been handled. So, they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator thought Lloyds had done enough to put things right. Since 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs K and Mr Ks strength of feeling about what happened. I acknowledge they 
were worried about why their CMP had changed. I can understand that was distressing 
given the financial difficulties Mr K has mentioned. And I appreciate Mr K spent time 
discussing things with Lloyds, which will have been inconvenient.
Lloyds records suggest they sent Mrs K and Mr K letters explaining the new CMP, although 
Mrs K and Mr K didnt receive them. I can see Mr K spoke to Lloyds about his concerns and 
the position on the mortgage account on 17 February 2022. Lloyds said theyd send copies 
of the missing letters. They explained, and I think Mr K will have understood from that 
conversation, what the CMP was and the reasons it had changed. 
Following the conversation, and other calls, Mrs K and Mr K reasonably expected to receive 
the copy letters setting out the CMP. I acknowledge the 24 February letter Mrs K and Mr K 
got wasnt the letters they were expecting, and it inaccurately said changes had been made 
to their account at their request. I think that would have been confusing initially. And Lloyds 
could have written a more bespoke letter or called Mrs K and Mr K to let them know they 
couldnt provide the copy letters after all. But I think Mrs K and Mr K could reasonably have 
concluded the 24 February letter was sent as a result of the earlier conversation. And it 
provided the confirmation about the CMP they needed.
I understand it wasnt until mid-March Lloyds finally confirmed they couldnt provide the copy 
letters. And I understand Mr K felt the need to take things further. He was unhappy with how 
Lloyds handled the complaint and the compensation they paid. I appreciate this will have 
added to the time Mr K spent dealing with the matter and his overall frustration. But we arent 
generally able to consider complaints about complaint handling. 
Whilst Lloyds didnt accept theyd made a mistake in sending the standard form letter, they 
did apologise for the confusion they caused. And they paid compensation of £50 and 
expenses of £10 for their mistake in promising to provide copy letters they couldnt then send 
and apologised for that as well.
Mrs K and Mr K knew why changes had been made to the CMP and the position on their 
account once theyd spoken to Lloyds on 17 February. Although the 24 February letter 
caused some confusion, it confirmed the CMP, which was Mrs K and Mr Ks main concern. 
And Lloyds had explained they couldnt provide copy letters by mid-March and responded to 
the complaint by 26 March. I appreciate Mrs K and Mr K were hoping for a higher level of 
compensation. But, bearing everything in mind, I think the apologies and compensation 
Lloyds paid Mrs K and Mr K were fair and reasonable to reflect the impact of the mistakes 
they made. So, whilst I understand Mrs K and Mr K will be disappointed, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 July 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman