DRN-4233430
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Revolut Ltd unreasonably refused to refund several disputed 
transactions which he says he didnt authorise which were paid from his Revolut account. He 
complained that Revolut didnt stop the transactions when he especially told it to at a time 
when they were still pending. 
Revolut also refused to initiate Mr Ms chargeback request. 
What happened
Mr M said that on 17 October 2022 he made a transfer from another banks current account 
into this Revolut account as he was due to travel for work in mainland Europe and he always 
used this account when travelling.
 
The next day as he was packing and getting ready to go to the airport, he noticed payments 
into his current account with another bank which he didnt recognise and then payments out 
of his Revolut account to a merchant he said he knew nothing about. Mr M is adamant he 
wasnt making these payments. 
As they were still pending in his Revolut account, he asked Revolut to stop them, but it 
refused.
Revolut said as the transactions were coherently authorised, it wasnt entitled to stop the 
transactions completing. There was no point of compromise and consequently it didnt think 
raising a chargeback would be successful. 
So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Revolut hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
I am also dealing with Mr Ms complaint against his current account bank which I have dealt 
with separately. So, this decision simply deals with Mr Ms complaint against Revolut. 
The transactions at issue are the following but please note there does appear to be roughly 
an hours time difference with some of the transactions possibly due to the difference 
between UK time and that on mainland Europe.
Time Method Amount From To IPDevice
13:26:22 mobile $1,800 (US) Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
13:30:54 mobile $3,060 (US Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
13:36:01 mobile $900 (US) Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
13:47:37 mobile $3,000 (US) Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
13:49:01 mobile $3,000 (US) Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
13:50:30 mobile $3,000 (US) Revolut disputed merchant iPhone 15,2
Under the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) Revolut is under a duty to pay authorised 
transactions. Authorisation and consent under the PSRs are a formal requirement.
 
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer .. 
if the payer has given its consent to the execution of the payment transaction or 
series of payment transactions of which that payment transaction forms a part.
Such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
As the investigator explained Revolut said each of the above disputed transactions was 3D 
Secure verified which required the transaction to be authorised through the Revolut app on 
Mr Ms phone after a push notification was sent. 
Revoluts evidence shows me that for each of the above transactions a notification was sent 
to Mr Ms app. FaceID was then used to log into the app and authorise the transaction by 
entering the app passcode. Therefore, once each transaction was authorised it remains 
pending as Revolut explained until the merchant collects it. Under the PSRs Revolut is 
under a duty to allow the merchant to collect the transaction, once it had been properly 
authorised. So, I consider it didnt do anything wrong in refusing to stop the transactions 
when Mr M asked it to do so. 
Crucially in my view, the evidence also shows Mr C used the same mobile phone just 
minutes later to log into the app using Face ID to report the transactions as disputed via the 
chat option. And the evidence shows Mr M used the same phone to log in the day before too 
which is not disputed. There is no evidence of any failed logins either.
There is also no question that Mr M never lost his phone or that other people knew his 
passcode. 
Revolut explained that because the transactions were coherently and properly authorised 
under the rules for chargebacks any such chargeback would have been unsuccessful and 
therefore, they didnt pursue this. I dont consider that was wrong in these circumstances. 
There is no evidence to show me how someone other than Mr M could have made these 
transactions given how they were processed and authorised and the fact that Mr M clearly 
had his phone given he contacted Revolut via the chat option some minutes after these 
transactions. Mr M also told us that Apple told him his phone wasnt compromised in any 
way.
Consequently, based on the evidence available I dont consider Revolut did anything wrong 
in refusing to refund these disputed transactions to Mr M.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman