DRN-4199579
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wakam declined his claim on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr R had home insurance that was underwritten by Wakam. In October 2022 he made a 
claim after a spell of bad weather caused damage to his kitchen and conservatory.
Wakam sent a loss adjuster to review the damage but subsequently declined the claim. It 
said it had checked weather reports and the weather on the day didnt amount to a storm. 
Instead it said the sealant that joined the conservatory to the house was defective and thats 
why the water entered the building and caused damage. So it said the claim wouldnt be 
covered.
Mr R complained but Wakam maintained its position. So he brought the complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that while she agreed the 
weather on the day of the damage didnt meet the definition of a storm, she thought some of 
the damage should be covered under the accidental damage cover in the policy. So she 
thought Wakam should accept Mr Rs claim for the flat roof, ceiling beneath it and the 
internal damage to the conservatory. And pay 8% interest on any repairs Mr R had already 
had carried out.
Mr R accepted our investigators outcome, however Wakam didnt. It said in order for there 
to be cover under the accidental damage section of the policy, thered need to be evidence 
of what the sudden event was that caused the damage. And as there hadnt been a storm it 
wasnt clear what that cause was. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wakam declined Mr Rs claim as it says the weather in the area at the time didnt meet the 
policy definition of a storm. 
When a claim is made for damage caused by poor weather, this will usually be considered 
under the storm peril in the policy.
Ive looked at the weather data tools we have available, as well as evidence provided by 
Wakam. The policy doesnt define what would constitute a storm, but this service would 
generally consider this to be very strong winds of around 50mph or very heavy rainfall. While 
there was sustained rain during the period when the damage happened, it wasnt heavy 
enough at any time that wed say it reasonably amounted to storm conditions. Based on this 
Im satisfied it made a fair decision to decline the claim under the storm peril in the policy. 
However, as our investigator identified, Mr Rs policy includes cover for accidental damage. 
The policy states it:
Covers you for unexpected and unintentional damage or breakage to your buildings, and 
any property for which you are legally liable (including domestic oil. gas and water pipes, 
cables, sewers, drains and septic tanks) by a single and one-off event resulting from a 
sudden and external means
It is a long established approach of this service, that if a storm claim is declined by the 
insurer due to the weather conditions not being severe enough, but the policy contains 
accidental damage cover, then wed expect the insurer to consider the internal damage 
under this section. 
Here, there is no evidence or suggestion that the damage to the internal part of the building 
had happened over time. Its clear from both Wakams report and Mr Rs own that this 
happened when there was a spell of bad weather. As the accidental damage section 
provides cover for unexpected and unintentional damageby a single and one-off event 
resulting from a sudden and external means, its reasonable to say that the spell of bad 
weather was unexpected and it caused sudden damage. So I agree with our investigator that 
Wakam should cover the interiors under this section.
I note Wakams comments that the damage could be covered under another section of the 
policy so wouldnt be covered under accidental damage. However it has declined the claim 
as there wasnt an insured peril  a storm. So I dont agree that this argument has merit. 
Additionally, Mr R has provided a report from his own expert which states that a tile from the 
roof appears to have been displaced and fallen onto the flat roof which has caused water 
ingress into the room below. As this damage would also reasonably meet the definition of 
accidental damage, I also agree that Wakam should cover the damage to the roof under this 
section too. 
Wakam has said that the damage to the conservatory roof that allowed water in wouldnt be 
covered as this was due to a gradually operating cause. And I agree this issue with the roof 
itself wouldnt fall under policy cover. However for the reasons outlined above, internal 
damage to the conservatory should be covered under accidental damage.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Wakam should accept Mr Rs claim for 
the flat roof, ceiling below it and all the internal damage to the conservatory. As Mr R has 
carried out some of the repairs, Wakam should pay 8% simple interest on any he has from 
the date he paid for the repairs until the date settlement is paid to make up for the time he 
has been without the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive give, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Wakam to:
Accept Mr Rs claims for the damage to the flat roof, ceiling below and all internal 
damage to the conservatory and settle them in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Pay Mr R 8% simple interest on all amounts already paid for any of these repairs 
from the date he paid for them until settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman