DRN-3977236
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly and failed in its 
duty of care by providing an overdraft facility when it should have identified by the way his 
account was managed he was a gambling addict and vulnerable. 
What happened
Mr B held two accounts with Lloyds. Both accounts had overdraft facilities. Account ending 
4260 closed on 9 July 2014 and account ending 2768 closed in July 2019.
Mr B complained to Lloyds that it provided him with overdrafts irresponsibly. Mr B believes 
that Lloyds failed in a duty of care to prevent high value transactions being authorised.
Lloyds declined to look at the complaint regarding account ending 4260 as it says the 
complaint was brought out of time. 
But Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint regarding account ending 2768 accepting based on the 
account activity it shouldnt have increased Mr Bs overdraft limit to £400 in January 2017. 
To settle Mr Bs complaint it agreed to:
Pay £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
Refund all charges associated with the account from 23 January 2017 which totalled 
£105.68. 
But Lloyds didnt agree that it shouldnt have authorised the payments Mr B was making to a 
certain merchant out of his account. It says Mr B had a long history of making payments to 
this merchant and that the merchant was registered as an investment site so large 
transactions to this company werent unheard of. And this being the case it had no reason to 
query the larger transactions Mr B made as it wasnt unusual. 
Mr B was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think there were indicators from 
Mr Bs bank statements that he had a gambling problem and didnt think Lloyds failed to flag 
gambling transactions as the merchant Mr B was transacting with was considered an 
investment company. Our adjudicator thought that the offer Lloyds made was fair and in line 
with our guidance.  
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Why I can only look at part of this complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed we can look at Mr Bs account number ending in 4260. 
Mr Bs complaint was made in 2022. This is more than six years after the last charges were 
applied to Mr Bs account and it was closed on 9 July 2014 - which is the event Mr B is 
complaining about here. To be within the six year rule Mr B needed to complain at the latest 
by July 2020. So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of 
when Mr B should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
When applying this rule Mr B doesnt need to know the specifics of the complaint  just that 
something may have gone wrong. Mr Bs account was closed in 2014. So I think Mr B should 
reasonably have been aware that the overdraft and charges applied to his account were not 
affordable for him and that Lloyds did something wrong by allowing him an overdraft when 
his account was closed in 2014. 
Three years from this is 2017. As this is earlier than the six year rule referred to above it 
means Mr B needed to make his complaint about the lending by 2020 (6 years after the 
event complained about). As he didnt complain until 2022 his complaint is out of time under 
the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr B has told us that he believed 
he complained in time but there is no evidence he complained about this account earlier 
than 2022. And believing you raised a complaint earlier isnt something I would consider 
exceptional circumstances.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply and because Mr B didnt refer 
his complaint regarding account number ending 4260 in time my decision is Im unable to 
look at this aspect of Mr Bs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.In this case after reviewing Mr Bs statements, I agree that the increase of in Mr Bs overdraft 
limit to £400 in January 2017 was not appropriate. I say this because had Lloyds conducted 
a manual review of Mr Bs statements it wouldve seen although he often saw a credit 
balance there were a number of transactions to and from payday lenders which I think 
indicates Mr B was financially struggling and managing his debt with further high-cost 
borrowing.  
Lloyds has already upheld the element of Mr Bs complaint regarding the overdraft lending 
and agreed to settle the complaint in-line with this finding as well as compensating Mr B an 
additional £100. 
Mr B believes Lloyds shouldve done more. He is unhappy that he was allowed to make 
high-cost transactions to gambling sites. Mr B believed there was enough on his bank 
statements to indicate he was vulnerable and had a gambling problem. I sympathise with Mr 
B and his struggle with gambling, but although I agree that his bank statements show 
borrowing from other high-cost lenders indicating potential financial difficulties, I dont agree 
that there was enough on the statements alone to say Lloyds ought to have known Mr B had 
a gambling problem and that it shouldnt have authorised certain payments to a merchant.
The gambling transactions in question were to and from a merchant that was a stock trading 
website and recognised as an investment company by Lloyds. Given Mr B regularly used 
this merchant and hadnt ever raised an issue with the transactions Lloyds didnt have a 
reason to query the transactions. So I dont think Lloyds have made an error here. And even 
if it was recognised as a gambling website, I cant say this wouldve made a difference as Mr 
Bs account was regularly in credit, he hadnt informed Lloyds of his gambling problem and 
Lloyds wouldnt be able to put a block on these transactions unless Mr B had authorised it to 
do this.
So although I think his statements do show some signs of financial vulnerabilities  I dont 
think there is enough to say Lloyds ought to have known this was caused by a gambling 
addiction and that it shouldnt have authorised transactions to certain merchants. 
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case and Im not requiring 
it to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman