DRN-2625230
The complaint
Miss N complains that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss N entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor for a 
used car. The car was five years old and had a mileage of around 56,500.
Miss N says that on the way home from the dealership she heard a noise and thought that 
the brake pads may need changing. She says she returned the car to the dealership who 
said everything was fine and returned the car to her.
In March 2020, Miss N noticed a loud rattling noise coming from the car and so called out a 
roadside assistance company. The engineer who attended said the car had no oil as there 
had been a leak around the sump.
Miss N took the car to a third-party garage who undertook an inspection which included 
removing the engine. This garage prepared a report stating that due to a lack of lubrication 
the crankshaft bearings had failed along with the timing chain idler pulley bolt snapping off 
inside the engine block. The garage said this was due to the timing chain tensioner working 
loose and resulting in oil loss.
Miss N complained to Blue Motor and said that car had been provided to her with a fault. 
Blue Motor arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The independent engineer 
reported similar findings as the third-party garage but said the damage had been caused by 
the car being used with insufficient oil in the recent past. They said the current issues would 
not have been present at the point of sale as the car couldnt have been driven in this 
condition.
Blue Motor didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint about the quality of the car. It said that as Miss 
N had acquired the car over six months ago it was her responsibility to provide evidence that 
the fault with the car had either been developing or present at the point of sale. Blue Motor 
said that the evidence of the independent engineer didnt support that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when Miss N had acquired it.
Miss N disagreed with Blue Motors view and complained to this service. She said that the 
independent engineer had actually only spent a short time assessing the car and she 
strongly denied failing to maintain it.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Miss Ns complaint. He said he had spoken 
with the third-party garage and had it said that in its opinion the oil leak had happened all at 
once rather than there being a slow leak. The garage said it wasnt able to say whether the 
fault would have been present or developing at the point of sale. Our investigator said that in 
light of that information there was insufficient evidence to say the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Miss N disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she didnt think the third-party 
garage could say whether there had been a slow leak or if the oil had drained all at once as 
when it had seen the car the oil had already drained away.
Miss N also said she didnt think the car was durable as she had only driven 4,000 miles in it 
since shed acquired it. Looking at both the cars overall mileage and the length of time she 
had it, she said this showed the fault had been present since the point of sale. She was also 
concerned about the noise she had raised back when she first taken the car as the cause of 
this hadnt been explained to her.
Miss N said that the car had received an oil service in November 2019 which was proof she 
looked after it properly. She said that the third-party garage had reported that the timing 
chain tensioner had worked loose resulting in the oil loss and this meant that the tensioner 
would have been loose from the start and eventually the nut had come off.
As Miss N didnt agree with our investigator the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances .
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being five years old and with a mileage of 56,500. I think that, 
taking into account these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to be 
issues with maintenance and repair over time since components of the car would have 
been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt be 
expectation that the car was fault free.
Ive seen that it isnt disputed that the damage that has resulted to the engine means 
substantial repairs are required. Its also agreed that this damage has arisen due to the 
timing chain idler pulley bolt having snapped and the tensioner working loose. However, 
there were a number of different opinions that had been given as to the cause.
The third-party garage that had first seen the car and had removed the engine said that 
this hadnt been the fault of Miss N and in its experience, it hadnt seen a timing chain 
tensioner come loose on its own before. The garage said that the timer chain tensioner 
working loose had resulted in oil loss. It also said that this issue should have been spotted 
and reported at the cars last service.
The independent engineer said that the damage found to the engine was due to the car 
being used with insufficient oil in the sump resulting in cavitation causing the timing chain 
tensioner retaining bolt to fatigue fracture. They said the bolt had self-loosened because of 
the engine vibration.
Blue Motor disagreed that the timing belt/chain would be checked during a service and contacted a manufacturers approved garage to have this confirmed. The technician at 
that garage confirmed that the timing chain can fail due to a lack of oil and the tensioner 
can work loose during use. However, this part could also fail because it is a mechanical 
part.
Ive seen that the third-party garage has now agreed that an oil leak would be an indicator 
for the timing chain to be inspected during a service. So, on the evidence Ive seen this 
isnt a part that would be routinely looked at during a service unless there was another 
issue such as an oil leak present.
Miss N disputes the conclusion of the third-party garage that there was a sudden oil leak. 
She raises the possibility that there was a slow oil leak which would have been present or 
developing at the point of sale. However, I dont think the evidence supports that there 
was a gradual oil leak. The car was subject to an MOT in June 2019, a periodic 
maintenance inspection in June 2019 and an oil service in November 2019. At none of 
these inspections was an oil leak reported and I think it would be reasonable to expect 
that, if it had been present, it would have been reported and investigated.
Miss N also says she properly maintained the car and as this would include checking the 
cars oil levels as per the handbook. I think if the oil was being checked then its 
reasonable to have expected Miss N to have been alerted to a loss of oil via a leak before 
there was insufficient oil in the sump such that engine damage resulted 
It is possible that there was a mechanical failure of the timing chain. Miss N says that she 
had raised a concern about a noise the car was making when she first acquired it. Ive 
seen that at the time she raised this noise she had attributed it to the cars brakes. I dont 
know what action, if any, the dealership took but there is no evidence of any temporary 
repair to the timing chain. Further, in light of the very substantial damage caused to the 
engine I think its reasonable to say that the original noise wouldnt have been linked to the 
timing chain issue as she has been able to drive the car for around eight months and 
4,000 miles. I think its more likely than not that if the noise had been linked to the timing 
chain then the car would have broken down far earlier than it did.
Miss N says that looking at the age and mileage of the car that it cant be considered 
sufficiently durable and so it isnt of satisfactory quality. She says that if the timing chain 
tensioner worked loose then it must have been loose from the point of sale and eventually 
failed. However, the mechanical evidence that has been produced doesnt support Miss 
Ns view.  
I think its fair to take into account this car was five years old and at the point it broke down 
had travelled around 60,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would expect some 
maintenance and repairs to arise at this point. Timing chains can and do require repair 
and looking at the evidence that has been provided I dont have enough to be able to say 
that this car wasnt reasonably durable.
So, looking at the evidence presented I dont think it supports that the car had a long-term 
problem, in particular a slow oil leak. I think its more likely than not that the issue with the 
timing chain arose after the point of sale and I cant reasonably say on the evidence that I 
have seen that this was a premature failure indicating the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at its point of sale to Miss N.
So, for the reasons given and although I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment 
to Miss N, particularly due to the substantial repairs the car requires, but Im not upholding 
her complaint.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above. Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman