DRN-2504443
The complaint
Mr A complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) failed to provide a 
hire car in a timely manner when his car broke down whilst abroad. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything here. 
But Ill provide a summary of whats happened, and Ill then give the reasons for my decision. 
In August 2020 Mr A purchased a European Breakdown Cover policy from Acromas. The 
policy was purchased to cover a family trip by car to Germany, lasting around ten days. 
On 19 August 2020 Mr A contacted Acromas whilst in Germany to explain that his car was 
displaying a warning light, and he didnt feel safe driving it. The car was taken to a local 
garage, but the garage estimated the repair would take four weeks to complete. As Mr A 
needed the car it was moved to an alternative garage where the repairs could be completed 
sooner. The repairs were completed on 24 August, when Mr A picked the car up. 
Mr A has complained that although he asked for one, Acromas didnt supply him with a 
replacement vehicle for him to use whilst his car was being repaired. Mr A says he paid €150 
to get a taxi to the garage where his car was repaired, which he hasnt been reimbursed for. 
Acromas considered Mr As complaint and paid him £150 compensation for the fact that it 
didnt provide a replacement vehicle. It explained that whilst it couldnt be held responsible 
for the actions of third-party companies, it agreed that it was unacceptable that Mr A and his 
family were without a vehicle for five days. 
Mr A didnt agree with Acromas resolution. He didnt agree that £150 adequately 
compensated him for the disruption to his holiday. And he also explained he was out of 
pocket because hed had to pay for the taxi to pick his car up whilst in Germany. So he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered everything, but he didnt think Acromas needed to do anything 
else to put things right. He explained that Acromas hadnt made an error, so it wasnt 
responsible for the fact that Mr A hadnt been provided with a replacement car. And whilst he 
understood the inconvenience, he thought that £150 compensation from Acromas was a fair 
way to compensate Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
- Ive seen Acromas claim file and Im satisfied that throughout the course of the five 
days between 19 and 24 August 2020, it repeatedly chased the third-party 
companies it was relying on to arrange a replacement vehicle for Mr A. I do certainly 
acknowledge that there doesnt appear to have been much co-operation between 
Acromas and the companies it was dealing with in trying to secure a vehicle for Mr A, 
but from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that was Acromas fault. The claim file 
shows that Acromas was chasing the other companies several times a day, by phone 
and email, as well as attempting to get Mr As car fixed as quickly as possible by 
following up with the company organising the repairs. I can also see that Acromas 
kept Mr A updated by phone and text message and provided him with a phone 
number so that he could try to contact the car rental company himself. Mr A refused 
to do this, explaining that Acromas should do it on his behalf.
- The terms and conditions for the breakdown policy that Mr A purchased explain that 
a replacement vehicle will be provided if theres availability. They state:
3.   Replacement/Hire vehicles
1.   Car hire availability or equivalent replacement for Your 
Vehicle cannot be guaranteed. Multi purpose vehicles, four 
wheel drive vehicles, minibuses, vans, motorcycles and 
vehicles with automatic transmission in particular are 
difficult to hire. 
 
- Acromas had requested a nine-seater car for Mr A, as hed explained that he needed 
a large vehicle in order to accommodate all of the familys possessions. After a 
couple of days, during a phone call with Mr A, Acromas realised he didnt specifically 
request a nine-seater, but a large car similar to his own. Acromas changed the 
request to include five- and seven-seaters, but there was still difficulty in obtaining a 
replacement car. So although requesting a nine-seater car mightve initially been 
wrong, I dont think this significantly affected what happened here. I say this because 
the problem persisted even when Acromas requested a smaller vehicle, as it still 
wasnt able to provide one. And I also have to bear in mind that the nine-seater 
appears to have been requested with good intentions, following Mr As request. 
- Acromas informed Mr A that he could rent a hire car and claim back the cost of it, if 
he preferred. And it also informed him he should keep any other receipts used for 
travel, such as by using public transport or taxis, as he could claim this back too. So 
although Mr A had to get a taxi to collect his car, hes able to claim this back if hes 
able to provide proof of payment to Acromas. I know Mr A says that Acromas didnt 
tell him to keep receipts for travel so hes lost some of them, but I dont think its 
unreasonable for Acromas to require these before it reimburses Mr A for anything. 
Its standard practice for an insurer to require receipts before reimbursing out-of-
pocket expenses, and I think Mr A wouldve known this, even if he wasnt explicitly 
told. 
I certainly understand that Mr As travel plans were disrupted by the fact that he didnt 
receive a replacement vehicle when his car was being repaired, and Im very sorry that this 
affected his trip. But in considering what happened here, I have to decide on whats fair. And 
as a replacement vehicle wasnt guaranteed by Acromas, as well as the fact that it wasnt 
Acromas that made an error in not delivering a vehicle, I dont uphold the complaint.I think that Acromas has been fair to pay Mr A £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
that this caused him, and I dont require Acromas to do anything further. Despite this, Id like 
to remind Mr A that if he has any receipts for the expenses he incurred as a result of this 
situation, he should contact Acromas to discuss reimbursement. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman