DRN-3894606
The complaint
Mr F complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by The Financial Planning 
Centre Limited, referred to as FPC, or the business.  
In short, hes unhappy that:
Despite economic changes over the past year, the adviser didnt have his best 
interests in mind when dealing with his investments. 
The adviser failed to react to changes in the market  causing a significant impact on 
his investments  resulting in financial loss. 
Since the beginning of 2022, the adviser has failed to take the necessary action to 
mitigate the losses to his portfolio. 
The adviser informed him that he was taking advice from a third-party business  an 
accomplished risk-rating and investment research analyst  but this wasnt true.  
The portfolio included Baillie Gifford holdings, but he doesnt think this was in line 
with his attitude to risk. 
Following his complaint, the adviser gave him a seven-day notice that the adviser 
was ending the relationship with him. He believes this is unreasonable. 
Hes unhappy about the way the complaint has been handled. 
To put things right, hed like the business to repay his losses since January 2022.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr F has been a client of FPC and has generally been happy with the advice 
provided. However, since the beginning of 2022, hes raised concerns about the 
performance of his investments and was advised to remain invested. 
Mr Fs concerned that the adviser failed to take adequate action by suggesting 
alternative investments. Instead, he was advised to remain invested. In other words, 
the adviser failed to react to the wider economic changes resulting in financial loss. 
In terms of performance, our service is unable to uphold a complaint based on 
performance alone. 
Based on Mr Fs answers to the risk questionnaire, he was prepared to take a 
cautious risk. 
Within the annual review dated 25 June 2021, a reference was made to a risk 
questionnaire which indicated that Mr F was a level four cautious risk investor. 
It was explained that each portfolio was designed to hold different asset class 
weightings based on his attitude to risk. In other words, the higher up in the risk 
scale, the higher the equity content which increases volatility and the potential for 
greater capital growth. 
FPC stated that by holding a certain percentage of his investment in each of the four 
asset classes  cash, property, bonds, and equities  would give him an opportunity 
to build a successful and diversified portfolio. It was noted that: 
oMr F may tend to see himself as quite a cautious person and would tend to 
view risk negatively rather than as a source of opportunity.  
oHe may also have limited or moderate experience of investments and 
wouldnt usually feel comfortable making financial decisions unaided unless 
they were of a less significant nature. 
As a cautious investor it was recorded that he was inclined to: 
oLook for safer investments, although he might consider taking some risk in 
exchange for increased potential returns; 
oconsider investments in exchange for increased potential returns; 
oconsider investments that could be considered higher than cautious risk, if 
these were part of a portfolio containing lower risk. 
It was agreed that he could hold around 26% in UK Equities and 16% in worldwide 
equities. 
oIt was generally accepted that equities have historically outperformed cash 
and fixed interest assets. 
Although Mr F specifically referred to Baillie Gifford, his America holdings 
represented only 2% of the portfolio, and his international holdings represented only 
5% of his overall holdings. Despite what Mr F says, she cant say that this fell outside 
of the objectives of the overall portfolio. Or that FPC failed in its duty by not 
suggesting that Mr F dispose of the holdings. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, FPC isnt responsible for any losses sustained 
by Mr F. It wasnt providing a discretionary service, so wasnt required (or able) to 
provide changes to the portfolio that a fund manager could make.  
Given the historic trend of the stock market, and without the benefit of hindsight it 
wasnt unreasonable to remain invested. This service has seen situations where 
knee jerk reactions have resulted in losses crystalizing when investments have 
bounced back. So, on balance, there was a good case for Mr F remaining invested, 
even through the challenging times. 
In the past few years a number of challenges have affected the global financial 
economy, including the war in Ukraine. FPC provided the best advice it could with the 
resources available so she cant say the advice was unsuitable. On balance, the 
business hasnt done anything wrong by not advising Mr F to crystalise his losses. 
Despite what Mr F says, theres no evidence that it was obliged to seek advice from a 
third-party business. In any case, theres nothing wrong with a business utilising 
research from a third-party analyst, which specialises in investment research 
analysis. 
FPC explained that it has a number of model portfolios and these are constructed by 
their investment committee, and its research is backed by a third-party investment 
research analyst. 
FPC also made clear that its portfolio proposition consists of ten investment portfolios 
aligned to ten different risk levels. These are constructed using top-down strategic 
asset allocation methods where it selected asset classes, geographic locations, and 
specific allocation weightings to create diversified portfolios based on the level of risk 
a client wishes to take. FPC then rebalance every six months (if necessary) to ensure 
the portfolio weightings have not drifted.  
The FPC model portfolios invest across the four main asset classes: Cash, Property, 
Bonds, and Equities. It says that investing across multiple asset classes increases 
diversification, spreading risk within the portfolio and can help reduce loss in poor 
market conditions. The practice is common and considered prudent. 
Mr F is unhappy about the way hes complaint has been handled. But complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore not a complaint our service can 
consider. Thats said FPC provided referral right in case Mr F was unhappy with the 
outcome of his complaint. 
Hes unhappy that whilst he was away FPC gave him a seven-day notice to terminate the relationship. 
On 6 May 2022, FPC turned off its charges and offered to carry out any instructions 
until 16 May 2022, such as de-risking by converting his investments to cash, but no 
instructions were provided.  On 9 May 2022, FPC provided a seven-day notice to 
cease services.  
Mr F appointed a new adviser by 26 May. As the original meeting with FPC wasnt 
booked until 25 May, it wouldnt have made a difference. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
The crux of his complaint is that he doesnt believe that the adviser conducted a 
review of his investments when he was clearly showing concern about the fall in 
value. 
He, and his husband who has a separate complaint against the business, repeatedly 
asked if the asset mix in his portfolio was suitable, to help him make an informed 
decision about de-risking. But all he received in return was generalities about the 
broad reasons attached to these losses  the impact of inflation and the fall away in 
the value of Gilts or assurances - and that he was in regular dialogue with the third-
party analyst. 
Whilst FPC wasnt providing a discretionary service, the terms of his Premier Service 
agreement stated that he could request a review of his investments. 
He asked the adviser repeatedly the basis upon which the adviser believed the 
portfolio was appropriate for his investment needs and/or risk appetite, bearing in 
mind the changes to the market conditions. In other words, he asked the adviser to 
review the make-up of his portfolio in order to ensure that it was right for him, but the 
adviser never answered him beyond advising him that he was having meetings with 
the third-party analyst.  
Despite agreeing to a meeting on 25 May the adviser chose to end the relationship 
before this date. This reluctance suggests that he was keen to avoid having to 
explain his actions. 
He thinks its unfair that hes unable to challenge the adviser not responding to his 
complaint fully. Instead, the adviser chose to end the relationship whilst he was out of 
the country which caused him additional stress, leaving him with no recourse.
FPC was duty bound to treat him fairly but failed to do so. The adviser treated him 
most unfairly.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, I cant safely 
say that the advice to remain invested  not to crystalise his losses  in the circumstances 
was unsuitable.  
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling, about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F and FPC, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In the circumstances, I dont need any 
further evidence to make my decision.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, I cant safely 
say that the advice to remain invested in early 2022 was unsuitable. Despite his 
concerns, on balance I cant say that the advice wasnt prudent given the volatile 
state of the markets and there being no reason to think things wouldnt improve in the 
future. 
Despite what Mr F says, in the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that 
the recommendation didnt consider the wider economic environment. I appreciate 
that investing in alternative investment and crystalising losses was an option, but this 
wasnt without risk given the circumstances. Without the benefit of hindsight, its 
difficult to know which option wouldve produced the better result financially. 
Whilst other portfolios with a similar risk profile (with other IFAs) mightve done better, 
this doesnt mean that the advice given by the adviser was unsuitable. 
FPC gave Mr F the advice to sit tight, it did so in good faith. Each time he contacted 
the business (between January and May 2022) regarding his concerns, he was duly 
notified of what was going on. Mr F wasnt obliged to accept the advice and was free 
to do something different. 
Even though he wasnt comfortable making his own financial decisions, in order to 
address his ongoing concerns Mr F couldve chosen, of his own volition, to instruct 
the business to de-risk his investments by lowering the risk or by converting all, or 
some, of his assets to cash. But he chose to follow the advice and remain invested 
instead.  
The above notwithstanding, even if the business had actively answered Mr Fs 
questions and queries in the way that he wanted, on balance I cant safely say that 
he wouldve done things differently. Without the benefit of hindsight, on balance, Im 
unable to say that Mr F wouldnt have remained invested, because thats what he did 
ultimately despite having concerns. 
I appreciate Mr F is unhappy with the performance of his investment but performance 
alone isnt something that our service can consider a complaint about. In other 
words, the business is unable to control or predict how the investment is likely to 
perform as thats dependent on the financial markets and something FPC has no 
control over. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that Mr F probably had a 
cautious risk attitude and was willing to take risk for better returns. 
Its important to note that he wasnt risk averse, so wasnt unwilling to take any risk at 
all. On the contrary, to achieve his aim, Im satisfied that he was willing to take a risk 
- and some greater risk - in exchange for increased potential returns.  
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr F had a diversified portfolio. And that it didnt carry 
any more risk than he was willing to take. 
I note it was agreed that he could hold around 26% in UK Equities and 16% in 
worldwide equities. Notwithstanding what Mr F says about Baillie Gifford, I note that 
2% of his holdings overall were American and 5% of his overall portfolio was in 
international holdings. On the face of the evidence and on balance, I dont think that 
was unreasonable, because it wasnt at odds with his general attitude to risk. 
In any case, I note that that FPC wasnt providing a discretionary service, so wasnt required (or able) to make a change without authority from Mr F.
Based on the investigators submissions, I note the stock market has performed in an 
upward trend with some notable dips, therefore it isnt unusual for an adviser to 
recommend staying invested during this period. In any case, its not unusual for 
investments to recover after some volatility, whereas encashing/de-investing can 
lead to losses being crystalised with no recourse.  
Of course, past performance isnt a guarantee for future performance, however, there 
was nothing to say that Mr Fs portfolio wouldnt perform better in the future, similar to 
the way other portfolios he has referred to did. So, in the circumstance, and on 
balance, I cant say that the business did anything wrong by not advising Mr F to 
crystalise his losses. 
Im mindful that Mr F tends to view risk negatively rather than as a source of 
opportunity, therefore its arguable that it was probably better for him to remain where 
he was and try and ride out any volatility. 
That aside, Im aware that several extraneous factors have affected the financial 
markets which in turn has affected Mr Fs investment, but this isnt something that I 
can blame FPC for. 
Mr F says he was informed that FPC was seeking advice from another company but 
that this wasnt the case and he was misled. But despite what Mr F says, theres no 
evidence that there was an advisory relationship between the relevant parties and 
therefore no obligation on FPC to seek advice from this third-party on his behalf. 
However, based on what FPC says, its more likely (than not) it sought some 
assistance from the third-party analyst in question. I note FPC maintains it has a 
number of model portfolios which are constructed by their investment committee and 
its research is backed by the third-party investment research analyst. Overall, and on 
balance, I cant say that Mr F was misled.
Despite what Mr F says, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore 
generally not something that we can consider a complaint about in isolation. 
Despite what Mr F says, a business is entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement  to end a relationship with a consumer. So, in the 
circumstances and on balance, FPC hasnt done anything wrong by ending the 
relationship with Mr F with adequate notice. 
A business isnt obliged to provide a service if it doesnt want to. In this instance, its 
unfortunate that Mr F was abroad when the notice was given, but Im aware that he 
was able to find an adviser a day before the original meeting was due, thereby 
minimizing any disruption this may have caused. 
Overall, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr F was treated unfairly such that 
this complaint should be upheld, and compensation paid.  
I appreciate that Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, I cant safely say that FPC behaved unreasonably such that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman