DRN-4090771
The complaint
Mrs V has complained Lloyds Bank PLC closed her accounts and added a fraud-related 
marker to her record.
What happened
In 2022 Mrs V discovered Lloyds  whod closed her personal accounts  had added a 
fraud-related marker to the industry database, CIFAS, for misuse of facility. She didnt 
understand how this could have happened and was unhappy that Lloyds had behaved as 
judge and jury without providing her an opportunity to explain her circumstances. Mrs V 
understood this involved her being the bank signatory for a business account. This account 
was held in the name of M, a limited company.
Mrs V had ceased to be a person of significant interest in M from mid-2020 and had resigned 
as a director later that year. Lloyds, however, noted that she was the only named person on 
the business bank account despite Mrs V stating that she didnt use the account.
In 2021 Lloyds noted that M had received what they were told was a significant loan. 
However their investigations had led them to believe otherwise. It was after this date that the 
account was closed and a CIFAS marker loaded against Mrs Vs name.
Lloyds wouldnt remove the marker so Mrs V brought her complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our adjudicator reviewed the evidence. He didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong and 
wouldnt be asking them to remove the fraud marker.
Mrs V has asked an ombudsman to review her complaint as she firmly believes no marker 
should apply as she had nothing to do with the running of M at the time of what Lloyds 
believed was fraudulent activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Lloyds must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed 
and Mrs V was involved. 
I have been able to review the evidence Lloyds has collated. The following pieces are 
particularly relevant:
Mrs V is the only named person associated with Ms business bank account; 
Her online banking log on was used for the transactions under review; 
Lloyds was able to contact the supposed provider of the disputed loan (which was 
paid into Ms account in September 2021) who confirmed the paperwork provided by 
M was not valid.
I dont dispute Mrs V was no longer a director of M at the time of what happened. However 
she had been involved with M since its inception being a director or acting as secretary, 
along with family members, at different times. The onus was on Mrs V to notify Lloyds of any 
corporate changes which would impact the running of the business account. She didnt do 
that. Therefore I find it odd that she wouldnt have realised she was the only name on the 
Lloyds bank account and that her online banking details must have been being used to 
facilitate any business M was carrying out.
Overall I believe Lloyds has made their case for lodging a CIFAS marker against Mrs V. I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman