DRN-3621847
The complaint
Mr J and Miss D complain about changes to a plan they hold with Vitality Corporate Services 
Limited and the service they have received.
What happened
Mr J and Miss D complained to Vitality about two issues:
- changes to partner rewards and the cashback structure of the plan
- incorrect information given to Miss D about the need for a blood test
Vitality considered the issue about changes to the plan and said that partner rewards and 
benefits can change at any time which is confirmed in the terms and conditions. They 
apologised for the incorrect information given to Miss D about needing a blood test as this 
was incorrect. To resolve that aspect of the complaint Vitality paid a total of £62.50 which 
was a refund of £12.50 for the cost of a Healthcheck which included the unnecessary blood 
test and £50 compensation. 
Mr J and Miss D remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service where one of 
our Investigators looked into what happened. Whilst appreciating the frustration the changes 
to the reward and cashback structure caused, they didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly. 
They said the terms and conditions allowed for changes to be made and that Vitality had 
sent letters and anniversary statements showing the changes. Regarding the unnecessary 
blood test they felt the £62.50 compensation was fair.
Mr J and Miss D didnt accept the outcome of our Investigator saying the £50 compensation 
wasnt right and they wanted the level of cashback they say they were promised. So the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and Miss D have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised some aspects of what happened which reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Its clear the reward partner offering and cashback structure has changed since the plan was 
first taken out. Its not unusual for businesses to change how plans like this work over time. 
However I would expect the ability to make those type of changes are made clear in the 
terms and conditions and that plan holders are sufficiently made aware of any changes. 
Having looked at what happened here Im satisfied Vitality has acted correctly in both those 
areas.
The Vitality terms and conditions say that discounts and offers need to be revised from time 
to time and will depend on third party providers. They also say that Vitality may change 
partners and the rewards they offer. The Vitality Life Cover Plan Provisions say that changes 
can be made to the plan and that plan holders will be notified of any changes.
Vitality provides plan holders with annual anniversary statements showing information such 
as the amount of cashback applicable. The statements ask that plan holders check the 
details and to log onto the website for more information about partner rewards. The 
statement goes on to say We occasionally update the Vitality Programme, so our discounts 
and rewards could change from time to time. 
Vitality also keep plan holders informed of changes in separate letters such as in 
January 2022. Then Vitality wrote to explain changes in reward partners and to how the 
cashback structure worked.
Overall Im satisfied that Vitality are allowed to make changes to the plan and that they 
sufficiently made plan holders like Mr J and Miss D aware of those changes. I can see why 
Mr J and Miss D are disappointed with the changes, however I think Vitality acted fairly and 
reasonably when making the changes they did.    
Vitality gave wrong information about Miss D needing to have a blood test. To put things 
right they refunded the £12.50 cost and paid £50 compensation for the trouble caused. 
Looking at what happened I think the payment is a fair and reasonable way of resolving the 
complaint. I know Miss D was put to some trouble, and this was also linked to changes in the 
cashback amounts, however Im satisfied the payment is fair for the trouble caused. Ive also 
taken into account, as Ive explained above, that Vitality are able to change how any 
cashback is paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman