DRN-2782607
The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly 
increased the credit limit on her credit card account.
What happened
Miss N says Barclaycard increased the credit limit on her account from £400 to £800 in 
December 2018. She says the increase was unaffordable and she was in financial difficulties 
at the time. Miss N would like the interest and charges refunded and any adverse 
information removed from her credit file.
Barclaycard says it carried out appropriate checks before increasing the credit limit and says 
Miss N managed the account appropriately. It says Miss N didnt tell it about any financial 
difficulties until March 2020 and it carried out detailed checks which took into account her 
bank account balance.
Miss N brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Miss N had been charged over limit fees in the months before the 
increase and thought the use of payday loans had inflated Miss Ns bank balance. The 
investigator recommended the charges and interest be refunded and 8% simple interest 
added to any refund over the amount owed.
Barclaycard doesnt accept that view and says in summary it did carry out appropriate 
checks and says Miss Ns spending was not essential. It also says the credit agency it uses 
had confidence in Miss Ns ability to repay any debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit or borrowing 
application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of lending and the 
amount. Lenders must make fair lending decisions and consider how a customer would 
repay any debt. The lending Im asked to consider was not a loan for example but a credit 
facility.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard increased Miss Ns credit limit in December 2018 by a 
relatively modest amount of £400 to what I also think was a relatively modest overall credit 
limit of £800. I accept that Barclaycard did carry out checks on that increase before offering it 
and that the increase was approved by its systems and by the Credit Reference Agency it 
uses. I also accept that Miss N made regular required repayments in the months leading up 
to the increase and that she hadnt told Barclaycard about any financial difficulties. But I 
dont think those checks went far enough for the reasons I will explain and think that overall 
Barclaycard shouldnt have increased the credit limit as any increase was unaffordable in the 
circumstances.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards account statements in the months leading up to the 
credit limit increase in December 2018. I can see the account balance remained either close 
to the £400 limit or in excess of that amount. Im satisfied that Miss N didnt clear the balance 
at any stage and incurred over limit charges. And that her repayments were on the whole 
close to the minimum required. So, I think Barclaycard ought reasonably to have been aware 
of that information when it considered the credit limit offer.
I appreciate Barclaycard says it did consider Miss Ns bank account balance when 
considering the increase. So, I have looked at that account and Miss Ns credit file. And Im 
satisfied that its clear that Miss N was heavily reliant on payday lending. I can see that in 
December 2018 Miss N borrowed over £1,500 using various forms of payday lending and 
that looking at Miss Ns credit file there are numerous examples of payday lending on other 
occasions. So, I think its clear that Miss Ns income was being increased by this type of 
borrowing which ought reasonably to have been clear to Barclaycard and which ought to 
have raised its concerns about the affordability of the credit limit increase.
I have also looked at how Miss N managed her account following the credit limit increase 
and can see that she used the new limit straight away. I appreciate what Barclaycard says 
about the type of spending and if it was essential. But I think following the increase Miss N 
was unable on occasions to make required payments and was unable to repay the debt 
which I think provides further evidence that the lending was unaffordable.
Overall, I accept the credit limit and borrowing amounts were not particularly high. But I think 
for whatever reason Miss N was in financial difficulties and those difficulties ought 
reasonably to have been clear to Barclaycard by looking at the information it had from the 
account statements. And from her credit file, which would have shown the level of payday 
lending and applications for that type of borrowing. In summary I find that further checks 
should have been carried out which ought to have reasonably revealed the full picture or 
based on the evidence Barclaycard had it ought to have realised the lending was 
unaffordable due to the reliance on high cost borrowing.
Putting things right
I find that Miss N had the benefit of the borrowing and so it would be unfair for Barclaycard to 
write off the account balance. Miss N should be put back in the position she would have 
been in before the December 2018 credit limit increase and Barclaycard should refund any 
interest or charges over the £400 credit limit amount. Any refund should be deducted from 
the account balance. I intend to order Barclaycard to remove any adverse information from 
Miss Ns credit file as a result of what took place and repay any refund at 8% simple interest 
if the amount of refund is greater than the amount owed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to refund any charges or interest from December 2018 applied on a balance 
over the previous credit limit of £400. It should pay 8% simple interest from that date until the 
date of settlement if that refund is greater than the amount owed. It should also provide Miss 
N with a certificate of tax deducted and paid to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs if 
appropriate and remove any adverse information from her credit file again if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
David Singh
Ombudsman