DRN-2504318
The complaint
Mrs W complains  through a claims management company (CMC)  on behalf of herself 
and the estate of her husband Mr W, that he was given unsuitable investment advice by 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam). 
In short, the CMC says:
The recommendation to invest in the Money Programme (the MP) wasnt the most 
suitable and was probably motivated by commission. 
A 10-year Investment Programme (the IP), also offered by Sanlam, wouldve 
produced better returns owing to its lower charges. 
What happened
In 1989, Mr W was advised to invest in the MP, an open-ended saving plan with a £6,000 
annual contribution and a (minimum) term of 20 years. It was recorded that Mr W planned to 
put the policy in trust for his grandchildren. 
Between 1989 and 1992, Mr W paid four annual contributions before ceasing to make any 
further contributions. In 1993, the policy was assigned to Mrs W, as a gift, and in 1998 it was 
partially surrendered with £17,500 being withdrawn. In 1999, the MP was fully surrendered, 
and Mrs W received a further £17,652. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes unable to say that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Having compared the MP to the IP, she found that the MP was probably more cost 
effective for Mr W, than the IP.
A direct comparison of the two products revealed the following:
oWhilst both products are unit linked whole of life policies, the MP, from the 
outset, was designed to accumulate savings over a term of at least 20 years, 
whereas the IP was only for 10 years with an option to extend.  
oThe MP is non-qualifying unlike the IP. 
oIt included a life assurance benefit of £100, whereas the IP offered life cover 
of 75% of the contribution, payable over the 10-year period which wouldve 
amounted to around £45,000 in Mr Ms case. 
oBoth plans are made up of 10 programmes or segments, with the MP allowing 
the withdrawal of a regular income after 10 years, as well as partial 
surrenders, whereas the IP only allowed partial surrenders.  
oThe MP set-up charge  which was age dependent  was 5.25% of the 
contribution, whereas the IP was 5% of the contribution. Both included 
monthly charges of £1.04 and £1 respectively. 
The evidence suggests that Mr W, when he took out the policy in 1989, intended to 
place the policy in trust for his grandchildren. 
Although the CMC says, Mr W didnt have any grandchildren  Mrs W is unable to 
shed any light on Mr Ws objective  the documentation from the time suggests that 
Mr W did intend to put the policy in trust for his grandchildren. So, the policy wouldve 
been suitable for this purpose. 
Its likely that Mr W will have preferred the MP that also allowed him the option to 
withdraw an income  without having to surrender the plan  as there was no 
guarantee hed have grandchildren.  
Shes unable to say exactly what advice was given, as Sanlam wasnt required to 
record its advice. 
The Personal Equity Plan (PEP) was a relatively new product so it probably wasnt 
available at Sanlam, therefore wouldnt have been offered as an alternative. 
Mr W had numerous capital policies  totalling £150,016  which suggests that he 
was an experienced investor, and (probably) making use of a PEP elsewhere. In any 
case, he wouldve had a good understanding of how the MP operated.  
The MP charge was only 0.25% higher, with a four-pence higher monthly charge.
Sanlam has explained that its not possible to calculate a reduction in yield as it 
would need information regarding Mr Ws health from the time which it doesnt have. 
Its also not something that the adviser wouldve been required to consider or had 
access to at the time. 
Given Mr Ws age and circumstances  and the cost of a £45,000 life cover benefit  
the IP wouldve cost more than the MP, and probably wouldnt have produced better 
returns. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr W was looking for life cover. Its also not clear why 
he only made four annual contributions but its unlikely that affordability was an issue 
as Mr W took another policy for £70,000 after starting the MP. 
Mr W isnt likely to have benefitted from the qualifying nature of the IP, as he didnt 
maintain payment for the 10 years that wouldve been required.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Although it considers the IP, for all the reasons stated, is a superior product to the 
MP, neither product was suitable for Mr W. 
The policy only ran for four years and consequently a significant amount of Mrs Ws 
money was lost in charges. 
It struggles to see how Mr W received suitable advice, therefore will have to agree to 
disagree with the investigator.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the MP was unsuitable for Mr W. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Ws 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the recent loss of Mr W, I 
appreciate it must be a difficult time for her. The CMC has provided submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs W and Sanlam, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate the regulatory rules from 1990 required financial advisers to exercise 
reasonable care and skill to know your customer and to give recommendations that were 
suitable for the clients circumstances. At that time, many advisers may not have completed 
fact finds, and reason-why letters werent obligatory until 1995, despite this Sanlam has a 
fact find so in the circumstances I cant blame Sanlam for not keeping a better note of the 
advice.  
Notwithstanding what the CMC says about the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO) requirement at time of sale, or whether the IP was the more 
superior product of the two  Im not here to decide which of the two was more suitable. 
My role is to consider whether (or not) the recommendation was suitable. On the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, given Mr Ws objective, I cant safely that the recommendation to 
invest in the MP was unsuitable. 
I note that in terms of set up cost, and monthly cost, the MP was technically more expensive, 
however, this was only marginally so as set out in the background. Although the IP included 
life cover, this wasnt an additional benefit that Mr W wanted, so it wouldnt be right for him to 
pay for something he didnt want notwithstanding the potential tax benefits that come with a 
qualifying policy.  
 
Im mindful that having initially raised concerns about the IP not being discussed, the CMC 
now says that neither it nor the MP, were suitable for Mr W. Despite inferring that under 
LAUTRO he shouldve been recommended the IP as the superior product (capable of better 
returns over 10 years) the CMC is now suggesting he shouldnt have been recommended 
either product. In any case I dont think this means the MP recommendation was unsuitable.
Im mindful of the CMCs points about reduction in yield, but I havent considered this as this 
wasnt something that the adviser wouldve been obliged to consider in 1989. Besides, 
Salam says its unable to do this without Mr Ws health details at the time.  I note Sanlam 
says:
The advisors at that time would not have had the reduction of yield information readily at 
hand and would have complied with the Life Assurance and unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO) requirements at the time to just discuss the charges as set out in 
the programme literature. From April 1988 until December 1994 insurance providers had to 
use standardised charges specified by the then regulator (LAUTRO) when producing policy 
illustrations and quotes. These standard charges were normally considerably lower than the 
provider's actual charges. Therefore requesting a reduction in yield now would be using 
hindsight and looking at information that would not have been considered at the point of 
sale.Given that it was Mr Ws plan to place the policy in trust  for the benefit of his grandchildren 
 Im unable to say that the recommendation to invest in a longer-term policy was unsuitable 
for this purpose. I appreciate that he may not have had grandchildren at the time, but there 
was nothing to say that he wouldnt in the future, or that he couldnt invest/save for their 
future benefit, if thats what he wanted. 
A term of 20 years would mean that any potential grandchildren would reach the age of 
adulthood before they could have access to the policy. In any case, its an important piece of 
evidence  from the point of sale  that gives me an insight into what Mr W was probably 
looking for at the time. In fact, it was the only handwritten note on the update sheet. 
I appreciate that the policy was paid into for four years, but without the benefit of hindsight I 
dont think that the adviser in 1989 couldve foreseen Mr W choosing not to contribute any 
more money after 1992. Even though its not clear why he did stop payments  its likely 
something happened  but this couldnt have been foreseen at the time of sale.  
Despite Mr W deciding to stop paying into the MP from 1992, and fully surrendering the plan 
in 1999, Ive seen nothing to suggest that he was specifically looking for a short to medium 
term product. 
  
I note that Mr W had the option to draw an income or surrender segments of the plan  
rather than surrendering the whole plan  if his circumstances changed and/or he needed 
money, but there was nothing to suggest that he couldnt afford the MP. I note the 
investigator says that Mr W went on to invest a substantial amount of money in a different 
investment after taking out the MP. 
Im conscious that surrendering an investment early, will generally attract charges  as part 
of general industry practice and not unique to Sanlam. In this instance Im unable to say that 
this was something that Mr B wasnt aware of, as it was made reasonably clear in the 
documentation. But if this was something that Mr W was unhappy with, he ought reasonably 
to have complained about it at the time. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the 
withdrawal/early surrender fees mean the recommendation was unsuitable. 
 
I note that Mr W wasnt without investment experience. I note Sanlam says he had capital 
investments of just over £150,000 and on numerous occasions used a third-party (a member 
of the London Stock Exchange) to make fund switches on behalf of the MP. So, it seems 
that Mr W wasnt incapable of making his own decisions or unrealistically expecting a quick 
return. Im conscious the documentation made it reasonably clear that it would be some time 
before the value of his investment exceeded the contributions he made.  
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ws frustration, Im unable to ask Sanlam to do anything because I 
dont think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman