DRN-1489388
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Select 
account in November 2002.
He says he was led to believe that he had to have the account to get a loan and wasnt told 
that hed have to pay a monthly fee for the account.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed Mr Ms complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold 
the Select account.
Mr M disagreed with their assessments on his complaint and asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ms complaint. And having done 
so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute, I have to decide what I think 
was most likely to have happened, based on all the information and evidence that Mr M and 
Lloyds have provided.
Mr M says that he was told that by taking out the Select account, this would help him secure 
a loan. However, I understand that Mr M had held a fee-free account with Lloyds for many 
years prior to upgrading his account to a Select account. And I understand that Mr M was 
able to successfully apply for loans in the years prior to taking out the Select account  for 
example Lloyds has provided evidence to suggest that Mr M had a loan for £6,000 in 
September 2001. So I think Mr M understood that he didnt have to have a Select account in 
order to be able to obtain a loan.
Based on what I know about the Select account in November 2002, I understand one of the 
benefits it offered was lower rates of interest on personal loans. Looking at Lloyds records, I 
can see that Mr M applied for a loan of £15,700 around the same time he took out the Select 
account. So by agreeing to upgrade to the Select account, Mr M wouldve been able to 
potentially save a sizeable amount in interest on this loan. 
I can also see that Mr M was paying a fair amount in overdraft interest just prior to the sale  
for example he paid £21.88, £16.74 and £18.47 in overdraft interest in August, September 
and October 2002 respectively. Therefore he was clearly using his overdraft at the time. And 
another feature of the Select account was that it provided an interest free overdraft facility on 
the first £50 of an overdraft, and reduced interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than 
that amount (when compared to the overdraft interest on a fee-free account).
Given all of this, I think its more likely that Mr M agreed to the Select account because of the 
benefits it offered, rather than because, as he says, he was misled into thinking he had to 
get it to secure his loan.
Mr M says that Lloyds never explained to him that he would be charged a monthly fee for the 
Select account. Whereas Lloyds says that it wouldve been part of its sales process at the 
time to explain all of the key features and cost of the account. Having considered the 
competing points here, I dont think I can say its likely that Mr M was not told about the cost.
Firstly, I note that the event that is being considered here took place nearly 18 years ago. So 
I think theres a strong likelihood that the monthly cost (alongside the features of the 
account) of the account was mentioned, but Mr M simply forgot that he was being charged. 
This seems particularly likely given that Mr M has said that he rarely used to check his bank 
statements and had years of unopened bank statements in a draw at home. 
Furthermore, I note that when Mr M first complained to Lloyds about the Select account in 
2015, he said it was mis-sold because he was told he had to have it to obtain an overdraft. 
But Lloyds explained that he didnt take an overdraft out at the time (as he already had one) 
but did take a loan out. Then, when Mr M referred his complaint to our service, he said that it 
was sold to him to obtain a loan. Therefore based on what Mr M has said, I dont find his 
recollections from the event to be particularly strong or persuasive. And when trying to 
determine what I think was most likely to happen, Im sure Mr M can understand why in the 
circumstances Im not able to place much weight on his recollections.
Mr M has said that Lloyds mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) on various loans 
(including the loan taken out in 2002). He says that if it did that, then the Select account 
must also have been mis-sold. However, whilst I cant comment on what mayve happened 
when he was sold other products, I dont think one necessarily follows the other. I will explain 
why. 
I am satisfied that Lloyds recommended this account to Mr M. This meant it had to check 
that this account was a reasonable fit given Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
At the time, the Select account provided reduced interest rates on loans. Although I dont 
know how much Mr M actually saved on his loan, the information available to me suggests it 
was at least 1%, but couldve possibly been more. And alongside this, Mr M was also paying 
less in interest when using his overdraft, as a result of having a Select account  which as 
established above, he was frequently using at the time. 
So based how much Mr M was borrowing at the time, I think it was likely Mr M wouldve 
saved more in loan interest and overdraft interest each month than the £5 he was being 
charged to have the account. So even if Mr M didnt have a particular need for the insurance 
benefits, I think recommending the Select account to Mr M in the circumstances wasnt 
unreasonable or inappropriate. On the contrary it was saving him money, at least to start off 
with. I accept that Mr M may not have been provided with all of the important information about all 
of the benefits the account provided. But Ive not seen anything about Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had 
he been given even more information about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr M may feel that hes received very little 
value for money  particularly as his circumstances mayve changed over time and he was 
paying for the account for a number of years and not using the benefits it provided. But that 
doesnt mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to him when it did. And it wouldve been 
up to Mr M, not Lloyds, to decide whether to downgrade his account if he felt that it was no 
longer meeting his needs or providing good value for money  which I can see he did in 
2014. 
Given what Mr M mayve read recently about PPI and wider mis-selling issues, I can 
understand why Mr M may now feel that the Select account was mis-sold. But looking at all 
the evidence that is available, I cant reasonably conclude that it was. 
I understand that this may be disappointing for Mr M, but I hope Ive been able to explain the 
reasons why Im unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman