DRN-2261873
The complaint
Mr R complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wont 
reimburse him for the cost of repairs to a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
a used car was supplied to Mr R under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance that he electronically signed in November 2019;
Oodle Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the 
price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr R was more than six years old, had been driven for 
86,461 miles and had a price of £12,775;
he had the car checked by a garage soon after the car was supplied to him and the 
garage identified some issues with the car, including that engine revs raise when 
clutch is operated but the biting point is high (possible worn clutch), so he contacted 
Oodle Car Finance about those issues  the dealer repaired the car but not the clutch 
as it said that it didnt need to be repaired;
the clutch failed in May 2020 and Mr R contacted Oodle Car Finance again but, 
because he needed to continue to use the car, he paid a total of £816 for it to be 
repaired (£456 for a clutch kit and flywheel and £360 for it to be fitted);
Oodle Car Finance said that the car had been driven for 3,700 miles since it was 
supplied to Mr R and it didnt consider that the clutch failing caused the car to have 
been of unsatisfactory quality;
Mr R complained to this service and our investigator was persuaded that the clutch 
problem was present and developing at the point of sale and that the dealer had the 
chance to repair it but chose not to when the problem was brought to its attention  
so he recommended that Oodle Car Finance should refund to Mr R the cost of 
repairing the clutch, totalling £816, and one months finance repayment;
Oodle Car Finance has provided the dealers response to the investigators 
recommendations which says, in summary, that the car was six years old, had been 
driven for 83,597 miles and was fit for purpose at the point of sale, it had passed an 
MOT test in August 2019 and Mr R was able to drive almost 4,000 miles in it before 
the clutch failed;
Mr R had the car checked soon after it was supplied to him and some issues were 
identified, including a possibly worn clutch  most of those issues were repaired but 
not the clutch which then failed less than six months after the car had been supplied 
to him;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was an issue with the cars clutch 
when the car was supplied to Mr R and that the issue wasnt dealt with by the dealer 
or Oodle Car Finance when he contacted them about it; and
I consider that the issue with the clutch caused the car not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R so I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to reimburse Mr R for the cost of the repairs to the 
clutch and to pay him the other compensation described below.
Mr R has also complained that hes found out that the car doesnt have a service history. 
That didnt form part of his original complaint to Oodle Car Finance so Im unable to consider 
it in this decision. If he wants to complain about that he should first complain to Oodle Car 
Finance and then, if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to make a complaint 
to this service.
Putting things right
Mr R paid a total of £816 for the cars clutch to be replaced. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to pay him £816 to reimburse him for those costs.
He was unable to use the car in May and June 2020 because the clutch had failed. I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to refund to Mr R one monthly 
payment under the agreement to compensate him for that loss of use of the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. Pay £816 to Mr R to reimburse him for the cost of the repair to the cars clutch.
2. Refund to Mr R one monthly payment under the agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman