DRN-3164968
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt registered in her name.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle.
In or around July 2021, Miss Hs car was clamped for not having road tax. She rang DVLA 
and discovered that the car wasnt registered in her name.
Miss H complained to Oodle. She said the dealer had told her that the car was a no tax 
vehicle. She said that Oodle should have ensured that the dealer transferred the registered 
keeper to her when the agreement started. Miss H said that if she wasnt the registered 
keeper, she shouldnt be liable for payments under the agreement and she wanted a refund.
Oodle investigated the issue with the dealership. It apologised to Miss H for any 
inconvenience caused and offered compensation of £100 plus £218 to reimburse the clamp 
removal fee and loss of earnings.
Miss H remained unhappy and complained to this service. She said Oodle had breached the 
contract and she wanted a full refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In relation to the road tax, he said the dealer 
had provided Miss H with the correct information because he cost of the tax was zero. The 
investigator said it was still Miss Hs responsibility to tax the car, even if the cost of the tax 
was zero. The investigator said that if Miss H had applied to tax the car, its likely that she 
would have realised that the car wasnt in her name.
In relation to the car not being registered in Miss Hs name, the investigator said this wasnt 
something he could hold Oodle responsible for, but that it was something that Miss H should 
take up with the dealer. The investigator said it wasnt reasonable to ask Oodle to refund 
Miss Hs payments because shed had full use of the car.
Miss H didnt agree. She said that as a consequence of the car not being registered in her 
name, her insurance premiums had increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has said that the supplying dealer told her that the car didnt require tax. In order to 
find that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the dealer made 
an untrue statement of fact which induced Miss H to enter into the agreement. There are no 
notes of the discussion between Miss H and the dealer. I wasnt present so I cant be certain 
of exactly what was said. Ive checked the details for Miss Hs car, and it is a zero road tax 
car. So, Im unable to say that the dealer made an error when he told Mss H that the car 
didnt require road tax to be paid.
Based on what Ive seen, it seems that Miss H didnt tax the car. A car still needs to be taxed 
even if the cost of the tax is zero. Its Miss Hs responsibility to do this. In the circumstances, I 
cant hold the dealer of Oodle responsible for Miss Hs failure to tax the car, or for the 
consequences which flowed from it.
Every car has a V5C certificate that contains details of the current registered keeper. In 
order to transfer the car to a different registered keeper, its necessary to fill in the new 
keeper slip on the V5C and send this to DVLA. 
There are no rules about who is responsible for updating DVLA about a change of registered 
keeper. Where a car is purchased from a dealer, the dealer is usually responsible for 
changing the register keeper with DVLA or providing the necessary information to the new 
owner so that they can do this.
I dont know what was agreed between Miss H and the dealer. Oodle has asked the dealer 
what was agreed, and it said that it provided the V5C to Miss H together with a DVLA 
addressed envelope.
I appreciate that Miss H is unhappy that the dealer didnt arrange the transfer of registered 
keeper. But the dealers action  or inaction as the case may be - isnt something I can hold 
Oodle responsible for. I agree with the investigator that this issue is best pursued with the 
dealer and /or The Motor Ombudsman.
Ive taken account of what Miss H has said about her increased insurance premiums. But 
because these are likely to be related to the failure to register as the keeper of the car, this 
isnt something I can fairly hold Oodle responsible for. 
Taking everything int account and for the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint. I wont be asking Oodle to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman