DRN-1687108
 
The complaint
Mr B complains at the delay by the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in transferring funds from his 
account and of its poor service when he tried to resolve the issue.
What happened
Mr B wished to buy a property, the completion of which needed to take place by 24 January 
2019.  On 15 January Mr B paid in 2 cheques totalling £32,500 at his local branch towards 
this purchase and says he was told they would take 4 working days to clear. On 17 January 
he wrote a cheque for £51,000 to his solicitors expecting the funds would have cleared by 
the time the cheques was presented.
On 22 January the cheque was returned and when Mr B  queried this in branch, he was told 
the funds wouldnt be cleared until 25 January.  But on 23 January his local branch told him 
the funds could be transferred the following day so Mr B went back the next day. At this visit 
he was told the bank couldnt make the transfer and his solicitors would need to re-present 
the original cheque.
At this point Mr B went to another branch, where the manager arranged for the funds to be 
transferred that day. As a result Mr B was able to complete his purchase as required.
However on 28 January Mr B was advised that the payment had again been returned. He 
went to his local branch to find out why. He had to wait for 15 minutes to speak to a cashier 
and was then told the problem was with the mandate on the account. Mr B says at this visit 
the cashier shouted across the branch "If you didn't go about writing cheques that you didn't 
have money to pay, there wouldn't have been a problem". Mr B considers this to be 
slanderous and says it will have affected his and his business reputation in the local area. 
He doesnt feel the £250 compensation offered by RBS is sufficient for the distress and 
inconvenience hes had. 
RBS acknowledged that the second payment was returned because of problems with the 
mandate and not because there werent sufficient funds in the account. Its also apologised 
for the poor service in branch. It says its paid Mr B £250 for his trouble and inconvenience. It 
feels this is reasonable and notes that, despite the problems, Mr B was able to complete his 
purchase on time.
Our investigator agreed there'd been a number of problems in the way RBS had dealt with 
this. He could see Mr B had to make a number of visits to the local branch to sort matters 
out. This was in addition to the additional worry of not knowing whether hed be able to 
complete his purchase on time and feeling the staff in branch didnt appreciate the 
seriousness of the situation. He felt RBS should have been able to resolve the issue with the 
mandate before returning the second payment as unpaid.
 With regard to the comment made in branch on the 28th, there wasnt any objective 
evidence as to what had been said that day. But Mr B had reported  his concern the day 
after the visit and he'd been very consistent with his version of events. RBS hadnt disputed 
the claim and  had accepted there'd been poor service and, on balance, he felt Mr Bs 
version was correct. However while he agreed with Mr B that the comment was 
inappropriate and also factually incorrect, he felt the compensation already offered was 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused in this case. 
Mr B disagreed. He said, in summary,as a result of RBS' handling of this matter, he'd had to 
make a number of additional visits to the branch between the 15 and 28 January. He said 
RBS could have checked the validity of the mandate at any time or resolved it after the 
payment and  he felt the staff didnt seem to understand the urgency of the situation or the 
financial implications of his not completing on the 24th. He considered hed had very poor 
service from the staff in branch. 
He didn't feel the compensation reflected the impact of what had happened on him and 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory, incomplete or missing Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, that is whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this case there are two key issues. The first is why the payment to Mr Bs solicitors was 
twice returned unpaid and the second is the service Mr B received when he was trying to 
resolve the situation.
Looking at the payment, I cant comment specifically on what Mr B was told when he first 
went into the branch to pay in 2 cheques.  This is because I dont have any information 
about what was said and the clearance times. But at the time the first payment was made it 
appears Mr B didnt have cleared funds in his account so I don't consider RBS was 
responsible for this payment not going through.
However RBS agreed that by the time the payment was sent the second time on the 24 
January, the funds werent an issue. The problem this time was the mandate. RBS hasnt 
been able to say exactly what the problem was but I can understand why Mr B feels that, if 
there was an issue, RBS should have picked up either when the first payment was returned 
or on any of his visits to the branch after that. I've seen that Mr B had explained very clearly 
why he needed to complete by 24 January so Id have expected RBS to have made sure 
everything was in order to avoid any further delay. It didnt and I consider that this was poor 
service.
The second issue is the service in branch. Ive seen what Mr B has said about this and that 
he feels very strongly that the staff didnt appreciate the seriousness of the situation. I can 
also see that Mr B was becoming increasingly anxious about the possibility that he wouldnt 
be able to complete in time and what this would mean and it does appear that he was given 
conflicting information by different staff at different times which would have added to his 
stress. 
I can understand why Mr B was particularly upset at the comment suggesting the second 
payment failed was because there werent enough funds to cover it. Again theres no 
information to show exactly what was said but Mr Bs given a consistent and detailed account of this incident starting from the day after it happened - and RBS hasnt provided 
any information to challenge it - so on balance, I think its reasonable to accept what Mr B 
has said.
And having done so, I can understand Mr B's concern.The remark was factually inaccurate 
but also inadequate as it didnt give Mr B the correct explanation that he was entitled to so 
that he could put matters right. Id also add that information about Mr Bs account should 
have been confidential and saying it in a way that meant anyone else could hear was clearly 
poor service. 
Mr B says this comment wil seriously have affected his reputation in the local area and feels 
it was slanderous. I should explain that slander or defamation is a legal issue thats needs 
to be determined by the courts and, for that reason, I wont be looking at that in my decision. 
I have however gone on to consider the impact of whats happened on Mr B and whether the 
compensation already paid is reasonable.
I know Mr B feels the comments in branch will have impacted on his business but in order to 
make an award for financial loss I'd need to see its actually been incurred. In this case 
there's nothing to show this has happened so I'm only considering the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B.
There's no precise way of calculating such awards but I've taken into account the additional 
visits to the branch that Mr B had to make along with the stress caused by his very real 
concern that this purchase would not complete on time and the financial implications of this 
for him. Taking this together along with the poor service in branch which Mr B found so 
upsetting, I consider that a higher award of compensation is required to reflect the impact on 
Mr B. I've therefore decided to increase the compensation to £350. RBS has already paid Mr 
B £250 which can be deducted from this award.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
Mr B the sum of £350 compensation for his distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service. As Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid Mr B £250 this should be deducted 
from the total award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before  17 September2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman