DRN-1933741
The complaint
Mr H complains Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as General Accident) didnt properly 
investigate a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 15 October 2019 Mr H was involved in an incident in which he says another vehicle hit 
his car while he was parked at a petrol station. Mr H made a claim under his Aviva motor 
insurance policy and Aviva arranged for his car to be repaired soon after. 
But Aviva recorded this as a fault claim, which Mr H was unhappy with. He thought Aviva 
should have got CCTV evidence, not repaired his car until liability was established, and 
given him the option of not going ahead with the repairs and the claim if it knew liability was 
going to be disputed. So Mr H complained to Aviva.
Aviva rejected Mr Hs complaint, saying Mr H hadnt mentioned CCTV in his claim and it 
didnt raise it as it initially seemed to be a non-fault incident. Aviva said Mr H claimed and so 
it arranged repairs and started liability investigations, and it wouldnt hold off repairs while it 
established liability. Aviva explained the other drivers insurer (the third party insurer, or 
TPI) disputed liability and asked Aviva to prove its driver damaged Mr Hs car. So Aviva 
asked its engineer to comment. And its engineer thought the damage to Mr Hs car wasnt 
consistent with the given circumstances or size of the other vehicle, and was pre-existing. 
Aviva said it recorded this as a fault claim because it didnt have enough evidence to fully 
recover its costs from the TPI.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He said Aviva hadnt investigated properly as it 
didnt get CCTV evidence, and it should have told him sooner it was for him to tell Aviva 
about any potential CCTV evidence. Mr H said he had in any case mentioned CCTV in a call 
to Aviva, and was unhappy the fault claim meant hed lose some of his no claims bonus.
Our investigator said the policy terms entitled Aviva to handle the claim as it saw fit, without 
Mr Hs approval. She didnt agree Aviva failed to investigate properly, saying it had reached 
a reasonable conclusion based on its engineers report. And she wasnt persuaded CCTV 
evidence would be sufficient to challenge the engineers report.
Mr H disagreed, saying Aviva should have got CCTV evidence and hadnt asked him about it 
when he claimed, but that hed mentioned CCTV to Aviva anyway. Mr H thought he hadnt 
been given the chance to challenge the engineers report because Aviva didnt tell him there 
was pre-existing damage before repairing his car, and those repairs had now been done. 
As Mr H disagreed, his complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this isnt the answer Mr H hoped for, but Ill 
explain my reasons. 
My role here is to consider whether Aviva investigated Mr Hs claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. I think it did, and Ill explain why. Ive seen from the email exchanges between 
Avivas claims agent and the TPIs claims agent that on 29 October 2019, Aviva said I have 
been in contact with the petrol station who are looking at their cameras to see if there was 
any CCTV that picked up this incident. From this, I think Aviva attempted to get CCTV 
evidence, though Ive seen nothing to suggest its attempt was successful. 
In those email exchanges, I can see the TPIs claims agent told Avivas agent that it disputed 
liability on 7 November 2019. Aviva later went on to ask its engineer to comment on the 
photos of the vehicles involved, and Ive seen the engineers comments. They said theyd 
expect to see paint transfer to Mr Hs car, but didnt note any. They said the damage heights 
didnt match and some of the damage wasnt where theyd expect, given the direction of 
travel. They also noted Mr Hs rear bumper looked more like poor paint adhesion and 
peeling off rather than impact damage. Based on the engineers comments, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Aviva to conclude it didnt have enough evidence to say the other 
driver was responsible for the damage to Mr Hs car.
I know Mr H thinks Aviva should have raised CCTV evidence with him at the start of his 
claim. But I dont think Aviva did anything wrong on this point. In the online claim form Mr H 
submitted, I see he said Parked in the [petrol retailers] garage. Lorry hit me side on and 
damaged the car. Driver gave me details after admitting crash.  As Mr H told Aviva he was 
parked and the other driver admitted liability, I dont think Aviva had any reason to tell him 
CCTV evidence might be needed in this case, though as Ive said, its claims agent did make 
an attempt to get it. 
If Mr H felt there might be evidence, such as CCTV, that supported his claim, then its 
reasonable to expect hed tell Aviva about it as part of his claim, as Avivas contact notes 
suggest he did regarding another, separate, potential claim he called it about on 
20 December 2019. But Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr H told Aviva there might be CCTV 
in relation to this claim before that call on 20 December 2019, in which Mr H went on to ask 
for an update about this claim and to mention there might be CCTV evidence for it too. 
As Ive said, Ive seen nothing to suggest Aviva did get CCTV evidence. But I dont think 
CCTV wouldve made any difference to the outcome of Mr Hs claim in any case. Thats 
because I think its unlikely CCTV would show the relevant parts of both vehicles in as much 
detail as the photos that were taken of them, and which the engineer based their comments 
on. So while CCTV might have provided broader footage of the incident, I dont think it would 
provide more detailed evidence of the disputed damage than that already seen by the 
engineer. 
Avivas contact notes show Mr H said he was unhappy it didnt wait to do the repairs until 
liability was determined, and he thinks it should have given him the option of not going 
ahead with the repairs or the claim. But the General conditions section of Mr Hs policy 
terms and conditions says, We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings 
or the settlement of any claim. From this, I think Aviva was entitled to handle Mr Hs claim as 
it saw fit and without needing his approval for anything. And Ive not seen anything to make 
me think Aviva handled his claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr H told our service he didnt have an opportunity to challenge Avivas engineer, as it didnt 
tell him there was pre-existing damage before it carried out the repairs. Avivas contact notes 
suggest the repairs were completed around the end of October 2019, just over two weeks 
after Mr H made his claim. And the emails between Avivas agent and the TPIs agent show liability wasnt disputed until after this, on 7 November 2019. It was because of this dispute 
that Aviva needed to refer the matter to its engineer, who then raised pre-existing damage. 
So pre-existing damage wasnt raised until after the repairs were carried out and liability had 
been disputed. And Aviva didnt need to hold off repairing Mr Hs car while it established 
whether there were any liability issues because, as Ive said, Aviva was entitled to handle 
Mr Hs claim as it saw fit. 
For these reasons, I think Aviva took reasonable steps to investigate Mr Hs claim and has 
acted in line with the terms of Mr Hs policy. Therefore, Im not asking it to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman