DRN-3900319
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco), trading as Tesco Bank, 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2016 Mr B entered into an agreement with Tesco to have access to credit by way of 
a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £7,000. Mr B had previously 
opened another Tesco card, in 2009, which had an available credit limit of £8,000. 
Mr B says that Tesco didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
second credit card account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Bs financial circumstances before granting him the card. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Tesco acted unfairly in 
approving the opening of the account.
As Tesco didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Tesco looked into Mr Bs financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about his personal situation included in the application he 
provided, showing he was homeowner with a mortgage who was working full time. 
The searches found that Mr B was generally managing his other credit accounts well, with 
no arrears, defaults or history of missed payments on his existing borrowing. Tesco 
assessed Mr Bs regular outgoings using average costs data. It then set an opening credit 
limit based on these factors. It recorded his annual income as £33,000 with a net monthly 
income of £2,200. It also recorded his total debt as being around £140,000, taking into 
account his mortgage, existing loans of £17,000 and revolving credit of around £3,400. 
Based on the data it used for assessing applications like this, Tesco estimated that Mr B had 
to make mortgage repayments of £660 per month, loan and revolving debt repayments of 
£510 and pay for living expenses of £660. This would leave Mr B with around £300 of 
disposable income, taking into account estimate monthly repayments of £172 on his new 
card.  
Our adjudicator also looked into Mr Bs financial situation, taking into consideration the total 
credit that would have been made available to him by Tesco on his two cards, which was 
£15,000. He also relied on a lower mortgage figure of £460 rather than the figure of £660 
that Tesco had estimated in its calculations. Allowing for sustainable repayments on the two 
Tesco cards, our adjudicator thought the total maximum figure for sustainable payments 
would be £750 per month. That would leave him requiring £2,320 per month to meet all his 
credit commitments  which is more than his net monthly income of £2,200. Our adjudicator 
therefore concluded that Mr B wasnt in a position to sustainably use the borrowing that 
Tesco was making available to him. 
Tesco disagreed with our adjudicators uphold finding. It said it considered that it was 
reasonable to allow a 3% deduction from Mr Bs monthly income to fund his revolving debt. It 
also disagreed with our adjudicator having decided to use the higher percentage figure of 
5% for this purpose. Tesco also disagreed with Mr Bs monthly payments being calculated 
based on his using all of the available credit  that is, using the entirety of the £15,000 of 
credit that Tesco had made available. 
I think the key issue in this complaint is the question of whether Mr B would be able to pay 
back what he might owe in a reasonable period of time. From what Ive seen, I am not 
convinced that Tesco took adequate steps to ensure that the credit was both affordable and 
sustainable for Mr B. 
I say this given that Tescos calculations dont take into consideration that by having two 
Tesco cards, Mr B would have access to a level of unsecured credit that was far greater than 
his current outstanding balance. It was open to him, if he wished to, to immediately increase 
his level of indebtedness by a very substantial amount. Tesco needed to take that into 
consideration alongside what it already knew about Mr Bs circumstances when assessing 
affordability. This would include thinking about any reasonably foreseeable changes in his 
level of expenditure  such as increased indebtedness on the total credit Tesco had granted 
him access to. 
Based on his income and existing financial commitments, I agree that Mr B wouldnt have 
had enough disposable income available so as to make sustainable payments with the level 
of exposure available to him from both cards. I therefore agree with our adjudicator that 
Tesco ought to have seen from the checks it carried out at the time that the opening credit 
limit was unlikely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Tesco should have granted Mr B the £7,000 credit limit when 
opening this account, taking his total available credit limit with Tesco up to £15,000. Had the 
account not been opened, Mr B would only have had access to the credit limit of £8,000 that 
was available on the first card. So in order to put Mr B back into the position hed be in had 
he not been granted the second card, Tesco will need to calculate its redress based on the 
assumption that Mr B would only have used the credit limit available to him on the first credit 
card and that it wouldnt be reasonable for Tesco to charge any interest or charges on 
spending that exceeded that credit limit of £8,000. 
Tesco hasnt been clear about whether the interest rate for the second card was 18.9% or 
15.9%. However, whichever it is, a fair remedy will mean that any re-work on the interest 
charged to Mr B should be at 15.9% as that is the rate that would have been applied to his 
first credit card and the only interest rate he would have been charged if the second card 
had never been opened. 
I therefore set out below what Tesco needs to do. Putting things right  what Tesco needs to do
As my finding is that Tesco ought not to have opened this account, I dont think its fair for it 
to be able to charge any interest or charges for the extra £7,000 credit Mr B was given. From 
what Ive seen and been told, the interest rate on this second card was likely to have been 
18.9%, whilst the rate on the first card he was granted was 15.9%. When calculating redress 
for this card Tesco therefore needs to look at Mr Bs spending on both accounts and re-work 
them as if all the spending had occurred on the first card. 
But I also think Mr B should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco 
should:
For the level of combined spending that is more than £8,000 across both accounts, 
being the credit limit Mr B was granted with the first card, Tesco will need to re-work 
each account by removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
For any combined balances up to £8,000 across both accounts, Tesco should 
re-work the accounts so that only interest at 15.9% is charged. This being the rate 
applicable to first credit card and what Mr B would have had to repay if the second 
card had never been opened.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. Once Mr B has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman