DRN-3644725
The complaint
Miss P complained that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua (NewDay), irresponsibly granted 
her a credit card account that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Miss P took out a credit card with NewDay in May 2018 (card number ending 7900). This 
card account was closed in June 2020, and Miss P then took out another in September 2021 
(card number ending 4479). The credit limit on the first card was £450.00, and on the second 
£900.00. There were no subsequent credit limit increases on either card.
Miss P said that her spending on the first card went up to the credit limit very quickly, and 
she incurred late payment charges and was only making the minimum monthly payment. 
The account was eventually referred to a debt collection agency, after which she made 
payments to clear the balance in full. The account was then closed. 
In September 2021 Miss P took out the second card. Again, she said, she spent up to the 
credit limit very quickly, and the balance is now the subject of a payment arrangement as 
Miss P has financial difficulties.
Miss P complained that the second card was issued without the appropriate checks, and she 
thought that NewDay should cancel the card, write off the debt and refund the fees and 
interest paid. NewDay said that it had carried out appropriate affordability checks, and told 
Miss P that it did not uphold her complaint. 
Miss P then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and thought 
it should be upheld. NewDay didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint about the second credit card. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether NewDay completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss P would be able to make the repayments 
on the credit card account in a sustainable way.
NewDay provided a list of the checks it completed when opening both of Miss Ps accounts, 
and its records of what was checked. It said that, for the first card, Miss P had stated that 
she was employed, with an annual salary of £13,580, and had an unsecured debt of £200. 
Its credit checks showed no defaults, no adverse records, no payday loans, and no accounts 
in arrears. 
For the second card, Miss P had an annual salary of £20,500 and an unsecured debt of 
£700. Again, its credit checks showed no defaults, no adverse records, no payday loans, 
and no accounts in arrears. 
On that basis, NewDay said that it considered that both cards were affordable for Miss P. 
In relation to the first card, Ive concluded that NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Miss P about her ability to repay. Ive reviewed the 
information and evidence NewDay gathered, and having done so Im satisfied that the 
checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable for Miss 
P. I say this because there was no evidence of financial difficulty on the credit checks, and 
Miss P only had a small amount of unsecured debt, so her salary indicated enough 
disposable income relative to the credit limit of £450. So I dont think NewDay acted unfairly 
in granting the first credit card. 
However in relation to the second credit card, I dont think NewDay carried out sufficient 
checks before granting the credit. 
The records NewDay sent in for the first card confirm what Miss P had said  that is, that 
shortly after the card was issued, Miss P had used almost all the credit available to her. The 
balance history shows that Miss P was unable to significantly reduce her debt, and on 
occasion exceeded her limit. And there were arrears on the card for some months. 
The underwriting note for the second card refers to high indebtedness, but theres no 
evidence that NewDay made any additional enquiries of Miss P, such as discussing her 
income and expenditure (I can see a number of active accounts are recorded on the 
underwriting record), or that it took account of the payment history on the previous card - as 
the first card was issued by NewDay the detailed records would have been available to it. I 
can also see that the underwriting note doesnt reference Miss Ps rent or living expenses. 
Miss Ps bank statements from around the time of the application for the second card show 
her rental payments and associated costs, and a number of credit commitments. There 
were, in fact two sets of rental payments  one being to family. We asked Miss P about this, 
and she told us that she was living with her family  and paying rent to them  while 
redecorating and furnishing her new home. I can see this wouldve been a temporary 
situation, but it is unclear how long this wouldve continued. I can also see payments on two 
credit cards, quite large payments to a mobile phone company and a number of statement 
entries relating to buy now pay later companies. There are also entries related to short term 
credit with a company that is clearly related to the furnishings that Miss P mentioned. And in 
the two statements before she took out the second credit card her statements show she was 
at or near overdraft just before being paid. 
NewDay argued that Miss Ps problems with the first card stopped in February 2020, after 
which she repaid the whole balance over four months and was not then charged any over-
limit or late payment fees. It said that credit records showed her total unsecured debt was 
falling during this time, so she was not using additional borrowing to repay this account - so 
using the negative information from around two to three years earlier to reject her application 
wouldve been unfair.Ive thought about what NewDay said. But Ive no evidence to suggest that NewDay 
explored how Miss P was able to make quite large monthly payments to repay the card 
balance on the first card, after having only been able to make the minimum payment in 
preceding months. And the second credit card was granted only 15 months after the first 
card had been closed  with a credit limit twice that of the first card. Ive also kept in mind 
that consumers who have had repayment difficulties in the past are more likely to experience 
similar issues again, so I wouldve expected NewDay to consider Miss Ps record with the 
earlier card. 
Taking all this into account, Im not satisfied NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before issuing the second credit card. I think it should have looked at 
Miss Ps income and expenditure in more detail. Had it done so, I think its likely that such 
checks wouldve demonstrated that Miss P was already very committed  as Ive set out 
above  and based on that evidence Im not satisfied she wouldve been able to make the 
repayments sustainably. So I think Miss P has lost out as a result, and therefore I have 
decided to uphold her complaint about the second credit card (card number ending 4479).
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss P should 
pay back the amount she has borrowed. Therefore, NewDay should:
Rework the account (card number ending 4479) removing all interest and charges 
that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss P along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Miss Ps credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss P for the remaining amount. Once Miss P 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply 
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. NewDay Ltd 
should compensate Miss P as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman