DRN-2904423
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Carnwyllon Wealth Management Ltd 
(CWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017.
Mr W approached CWM for advice in July 2017 as he was worried about his BSPS pension. 
CWM completed a fact find and a risk assessment. Mr W says the first meeting with CWM 
felt like a sales meeting for the personal pension product.
As CWM didnt have the right regulatory permissions to advise Mr W on a DB pension 
transfer they referred him to another firm, which Ill refer to as Firm B for this advice.
Firm B completed another fact find and risk assessment and issued a suitability report 
advising Mr W to transfer his DB benefits to a new personal pension. The transfer went 
ahead in November 2017.
Mr W says he wasnt told about the risks of a transfer. He says he never met anyone from 
Firm B and all discussions and completion of paperwork was done through CWM.  He says 
he never received a suitability letter and he doesnt recall seeing some of the documents he 
has since been provided with during the course of his complaint. He also says he doesnt 
recognise some of the signatures as his own. Mr W doesnt think he was given suitable 
advice and feels both CWM and Firm B are responsible for him losing valuable guaranteed 
benefits by transferring.
Mr W made complaints against both firms. CWM said they didnt provide the pension 
transfer advice. They had referred him to Firm B who was responsible for this advice. Firm B 
has since gone into liquidation and so the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider the 
complaint against them.
Mr W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. Mr W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme, 
however the firm responsible for this advice as well as the product recommendation is Firm 
B. They were the firm who had the relevant permissions and provided the formal 
recommendation both to transfer out of BSPS, where to transfer to and how to invest. They 
also provided the required confirmation that Mr W had received qualified advice to the DB 
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr W could not have transferred his DB pension 
without Firm Bs advice.
I considered whether CWM should be held for Mr Ws losses here, however I dont think they 
do. I dont know exactly what CWM discussed with Mr W. Whilst I dont doubt that Mr W has 
described his honest recollections, the paperwork from the time of the advice does not 
indicate that he was provided with a personal recommendation by CWM to transfer. 
Its possible CWM were speaking positively about transferring out and about the pension 
product which Mr W ended up transferring into. The intention was that if Mr W transferred 
out, CWM would have provided ongoing advice on the pension if Mr W wanted this. And 
CWM and Firm B were sharing the advice fees. So CWM may have been hoping Mr W 
would transfer. And Ive considered the possibility that CWM inadvertently strayed into 
advice, even though I havent seen sufficient evidence to say that this is what happened. 
However, even if they did, in my view none of their interactions with Mr W and possible 
failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential losses he suffered.
It was Firm B who gave Mr W the advice which allowed him to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. Notes on CWM fact find say they explained to Mr W he would need to speak to a 
pension transfer specialist about his DB transfer and that CWM could not advise him on that. 
The notes say CWM can refer Mr W to Firm B and that advice fees would be split between 
them. Its possible that Mr W didnt have any or much direct contact with Firm B. However, I 
find it difficult to believe that he didnt know another firm was involved. Firm Bs adviser was 
noted as his adviser on his personal pension application form, he signed a pension transfer 
questionnaire on Firm Bs headed paper and he signed a client agreement with Firm B which 
included their charges. In my view there was no reason for CWM to withhold information 
from Mr W that another adviser with the necessary permissions was involved. On balance I 
think Mr W did sign these documents and was aware of Firm Bs involvement.
Mr Ws representatives say CWM and Firm B should both be liable for his losses. They say 
both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They say 
CWM failed to act in Mr Ws best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly collaborating 
in a manner that led to unsuitable advice. 
CWM did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so they 
couldnt be expected to recommend Mr W not to transfer. I think there was nothing generally 
wrong with referring Mr W on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension. Mr Ws representatives say CWM referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were 
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely 
CWN referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice 
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable 
or not. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide 
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have 
those permissions was unsuitable. I think CWM were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B, 
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary 
qualifications, to provide suitable advice. 
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mr W with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr W to transfer and Firm B, as the experts in this field, had 
clearly told him so and provided reasons why, I dont think any previous discussions with 
CWM would have likely made Mr W go against this advice.
In summary, I think it was Firm Bs advice that caused Mr W to transfer and that they are 
fully responsible for any losses if their advice was unsuitable. I dont think Mr Ws potential 
losses here are caused by CWMs actions and so I dont consider it fair or reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman