DRN-2031264
The complaint
In summary Mr C has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied a default to his credit file 
when it closed his bank account.
What happened
In February 2018 HSBC wrote to Mr C to tell him that it was closing his account. It told him 
that the account would be closed on 3 May 2018. The letter also explained what would 
happen when his account closed and what would happen if the account was in credit or 
overdrawn. 
There were further exchanges of correspondence between Mr C and HSBC regarding the 
account and the overdraft balance. A default notice on the account was issued at the 
beginning of May 2018, requesting that the balance of the account be brought within the 
overdraft limit. 
Mr C spoke to one of HSBCs call handlers. A three-month payment plan of £50 a month 
was agreed by HSBC. Mr C was informed that although the account would be held from 
collection calls, a default notice and final demand letters might still be issued.
At the end of May 2018 HSBC wrote to Mr C again. It explained that it was sending him a 
final demand. 
Mr Cs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. She explained to Mr C why 
she wasnt upholding his complaint. Mr C disagreed with her view and the investigator 
responded to the points Mr C made. As Mr C didnt agree with the investigators responses, 
the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that in addition to the concerns that Ive summarised above, Mr C is also unhappy 
that HSBC decided to close his bank account. For the avoidance of any doubt, I have not 
considered HSBCs decision to close his account as part of my review. Mr Cs concerns in 
respect of that issue were considered under a separate complaint by the investigator. And 
she explained why she thought the complaint had been made to our service out of time. My 
findings in this complaint apply solely to the complaint Ive summarised above. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
When HSBC wrote to Mr C to inform him that it was closing his account, it explained what 
would happen when the account was closed if it was overdrawn, or in credit. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr C has said about not receiving the letter informing him that his 
account was being closed. And I accept that its his honest recollection that he didnt receive 
it. 
But I can see that the letter and other correspondence sent by HSBC was correctly 
addressed. And whilst I recognise that some post can go astray, most post correctly 
addressed is delivered. And Im not aware of any problems Mr C was having with his post at 
that time. Also, HSBCs internal records indicate that the correspondence was sent to Mr C. 
As a result, I think its more likely than not that the correspondence HSBC sent to Mr C 
regarding the closure of his account and the repayment of his overdraft were delivered. 
 
Ive also thought carefully about the repayment plan that was agreed with Mr C by HSBC. 
HSBC has acknowledged that Mr C didnt miss any payments. But I can also see that HSBC 
explained to Mr C when it wrote to him about the repayment plan, that it didnt change the 
agreement terms. It also went on to explain that although his account would be withheld from 
collection calls, a default notice and final demand letters might still be issued.
Ive also listened to the call of the conversation Mr C had with one of HSBCs call handlers 
when he rang to discuss making payments to reduce the overdraft amount. Although a 
repayment plan was agreed, the call handler did explain to Mr C that the account would 
close on 26 May 2018. And he went on to also explain that this would result in the account 
defaulting and a marker being recorded on Mr Cs credit file.  
 
Consequently, I think Mr C would have been aware that his account was being closed and 
what would happen if the overdraft wasnt settled by the account closure date.
Also, before the repayment plan was agreed, HSBC had already written to Mr C to ask him 
to bring the balance of his account within the agreed overdraft limit within 21 days. And a 
final demand requesting payment was sent to Mr C at the end of May 2018. And the letter 
explained what help was available. 
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that in this particular case, HSBC gave Mr C 
notice of its requirement for the overdraft on his account to be repaid in full and of the 
consequences if he didnt do so by the timeframes it gave. And according to the information 
provided by HSBC, a default wasnt applied to Mr Cs credit file until the third week of June. 
As a result, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in registering a default to Mr Cs account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman