DRN-4115132
The complaint
Ms T and Mr W complain that TSB Bank plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss they 
suffered when they sent a payment to one of its customers accounts because of a scam.
Ms T and Mr W have used a representative to bring their complaint, but for ease of reading, 
Ill mostly just refer to and will ascribe the representatives comments to Ms T and Mr W.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will keep my summary 
of what happened brief and focus on the reasons for my decision.
In September 2022 Ms T and Mr W sent just over €16,500 to an account held with 
TSB Bank. The money was for the purchase of a vehicle which theyd found online and was 
to be delivered. Ms T and Mr W say after theyd sent the money, the seller ceased 
communication, and the vehicle was never received. When Ms T and Mr W realised they 
might have fallen victim to a scam they contacted their own bank, B who notified TSB Bank. 
No funds were returned, so Ms T and Mr W complained to TSB bank that it had likely failed 
to: meet its obligations when allowing its customers account to be opened; monitoring the 
account; and in its response when notified of the fraud. 
TSB Bank didnt uphold Ms T and Mr Ws complaint and the matter was referred to our 
service. Our Investigator concluded as there had been no failure by TSB Bank which had 
resulted in a loss to Ms T and Mr W it didnt need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. Ms T and Mr W did not accept the Investigators assessment and asked that an 
Ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.  
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Ms T and Mr W have lost a considerable sum of money through 
falling victim to a cruel scam. With that in mind, I can see why they feel that TSB Bank ought 
to refund their loss as it allowed a scammer to open and operate an account. But I think its 
important for me to start by explaining that an account later found to have been utilised to 
receive fraudulently obtained funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a 
refund nor does it mean that the recipient payment service provider (PSP) reasonably failed 
to prevent the loss. 
I can only fairly direct TSB Bank to refund Ms T and Mr Ws loss if Im persuaded its acts or 
omissions reasonably caused that loss.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that TSB Bank correctly followed their 
account opening procedures, carried out checks to verify the identity of the named 
accountholder and did its due diligence when opening the recipient account. There was 
nothing at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted TSB Bank that the account it was 
opening would later be used to receive fraudulently obtained funds. So Im satisfied 
TSB Bank didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Ms T and Mr Ws loss when opening the 
account.
Ive also carefully considered whether there was anything prior to B notifying TSB Bank of 
fraud that ought to have alerted them to the possibility of the same. Ive taken into account 
the length of time the account had been open and operating without any concerns, the 
previous account activity, and where to and how Ms T and Mr Ws funds were paid away. 
And in my opinion, there wasnt anything sufficiently suspicious about the account activity 
that ought to have stood out to TSB Bank, where Id say its systems not triggering, or it not 
intervening, was unreasonable. So I cant fairly say TSB Bank missed an opportunity to 
prevent Ms T and Mr Ws loss in this way either.
And finally, Im satisfied that TSB Bank responded appropriately when B notified it of the 
fraud. Unfortunately, by the time TSB Bank had been told that Ms T and Mr Ws payment 
had been made as a result of a scam, the funds had already left the recipient account. 
TSB Bank has also evidenced that it did contact second generation banks, where the 
money had been sent to, to try and secure any further funds for Ms T and Mr W. So, it 
follows that I dont think it did anything wrong.
     
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman