DRN-2067658
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have a mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank. 
They also have a mortgage offset savings account. 
There are problems with their local postal service which delivers letters to the wrong 
addresses. They have asked Lloyds to send correspondence by other means such as email 
or online banking but it wont co-operate.
To resolve their complaint theyd like Lloyds to stop sending payment notices by post. Failing 
that, it should allow them to re-mortgage to another lender without penalty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W say that despite complaints to the postal service they incorrectly receive 
letters addressed to neighbours in their street. They say it goes without saying that some of 
their post must also have been delivered to neighbours. 
Lloyds routinely sends them mortgage payment advice notices in advance of payments 
becoming due. They are scheduled to receive twelve items of sensitive information each 
year. They know of two situations where their post hasnt arrived and can only attribute this 
to the postal service issues. They are concerned that neighbours know or will learn sensitive 
financial information should Lloyds continue to post the payment advice notices.
Mr and Mrs W complain that when they raised this with Lloyds it said nothing could be done. 
It said it was obliged to send the payment notices each month and couldnt use email. Lloyds 
cited MCOB 7.6.1. But this said a provider must provide notification if the mortgage 
payments change as a result of an interest rate change or if it is making material changes to 
its terms and conditions. However Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage has a fixed rate product until 
31 August 2023.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It said there was no breach of data 
protection regulation. Post was deemed to be a secure method of communication. Email was 
an insecure method of communication. Sending the payment information by email would put 
the data at risk of being intercepted and lost.
The interest rate was effectively being changed by the funds held in the offset saver account. 
Lloyds was also required to inform Mr and Mrs W of any payment change as part of the 
direct debit guarantee. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy and brought their complaint to our service. They said it was the 
amount of interest which changed as a result of the offset savings, not the interest rate itself. 
They also cited an example where Lloyds had written two months running saying the same 
payment would be taken, with no change. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. Both these letters 
also notified Mr and Mrs W when their fixed rate would end, what it would change to and 
what their new monthly repayment would be. MCOB did say businesses must keep their 
customers informed of this.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. As they didnt 
think Lloyds had understood the regulations correctly, they believe they have a fair reason 
why they should be able to leave the fixed rate mortgage without paying an early repayment 
charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have been at pains to demonstrate that in their situation, because of their 
particular problems with the postal service, its no good for Lloyds to just say that post is 
secure and email isnt. 
However I dont think its reasonable to expect one division of Lloyds to adjust the way its 
system automatically generates and sends out payment notices, or to cease sending them, 
in order to cater for vagaries in the postal service affecting an individual customer. What 
Mr and Mrs W have is a problem with their postal service.
Its unfortunate that the systems in this division of Lloyds dont have the functionality to 
upload correspondence to an online banking platform. 
But Im not a regulator. My awards are designed to address loss, damage and material 
distress and inconvenience suffered by a consumer as a result of errors, poor service or 
breaches of contract or duty by a financial business. Im afraid I have no power to tell a 
business to change its operating procedures, and I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint
Lloyds has suggested Mr and Mrs W add a correspondence address to their account, such 
as that of a family member, so that all future correspondence from Lloyds could be sent to 
that address. That seems to me to be a reasonable solution.
Mr and Mrs W say it wouldnt solve the problem of post being delivered to the wrong address 
and opened inadvertently. But it seems to me that it could, provided the alternative address 
were in a different area which didnt suffer the same problems with the postal service.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman