DRN-2264878
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
BG invited Mrs B to book an annual service of her boiler. The first available date offered was 
in March 2020. In January 2020 Mrs B experienced problems with her boiler and booked for 
an engineer to attend. Unfortunately, BG had to cancel this appointment, due to engineer 
availability and re-scheduled. 
The BG engineer attended in February 2020 and completed the repair. But, Mrs Bs boiler 
experienced further issues and another engineer found that parts were required. The return 
date BG offered to carry out the repair wasnt suitable for Mrs B, which meant that the boiler 
wasnt completely fixed until towards the end of February 2020. Mrs Bs annual service for 
her fire was still scheduled for March 2020, but BG didnt attend.
Mrs B complained to BG about the wait times, appointment availability, the failure of its 
engineers to service her hob and that she had to pay an excess charge. BG explained that 
the appointments had to be re-scheduled due to the high volume of emergency calls and as 
Mrs Bs call wasnt an emergency, it didnt take priority. It completed the repair in February 
which had been delayed due to Mrs Bs availability. BG maintained that the hob was never 
covered by the policy. But offered £120 compensation for the cancelled appointments. 
Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the offer of compensation was fair, given that BG didnt cancel the appointments deliberately 
nor were the delays caused intentional.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with our investigators view as she felt he hadnt addressed a few                
issues. Such as the time she had to take off from work due to the cancelled appointments, 
the lack of heating and hot water in her home for a period and that she had to pay an excess 
charge on top of the monthly policy payment. So she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that this service has to make its decisions based upon the evidence
presented to it. Where evidence is lacking, or is conflicting, then findings have to be made 
based on what is more likely than not to have happened. The objective is to reach a decision 
that is fair and reasonable.
I consider that there are three specific aspects to this complaint. Firstly, the wait time and 
engineers availability. Secondly, whether Mrs B ought to have paid an excess charge and 
finally, whether Mrs Bs hob was covered under the policy. 
BG have said that when Mrs B reported issues with her boiler she didnt report that it was an 
emergency. She reported a loss of pressure and that her boiler was playing up.  Under the 
policy schedule, BG had to attend both emergency and non-emergency calls. I think the 
issue here is whether BG shouldve classed the call as an emergency and therefore 
prioritised the repair. 
I have read the chat transcript between BG and Mrs B. She is asked by the agent the 
following: 
How may I help you? I have just booked my annual service but coincidentally my boiler is 
playing up and loosing (sic) pressure so wanted to arrange an enjineer (sic) to have a look at 
it please.
The chat continues to the booking of the engineer visit and the payment of the excess fee. 
BG has said that because Mrs B didnt say that she had loss of heating or hot water, which 
would class the repair as an emergency, it didnt prioritise the repair. I think this explanation 
is reasonable and I dont think BG were unfair in not prioritising this call as an emergency. I 
note that this resulted in a re-scheduled visit, but the engineer carried out the annual service 
on the boiler, when he attended, which he wasnt required to do.
Mrs B said that following this repair, her boiler broke down later that same day, but having 
reviewed the job records, I can see that she didnt report this new breakdown until three 
days after the engineers visit. I wouldve expected Mrs B to have reported the breakdown 
much sooner, but when she did, BG sent an engineer the next day who found that parts 
were required to complete the repair. Those parts were fitted once they became available 
and when Mrs B was present. So, I am satisfied that BG carried out the repairs and visits 
within a reasonable timescale.  
Mrs B complains that she had to take a total of five days away from work due to the visits 
and that BGs offer of £120 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this wouldve 
caused was not enough. 
I accept that Mrs B had been put to some trouble and inconvenience as a result of the 
cancelled engineers visits. Nonetheless, I wouldnt generally make awards for a consumers 
time and it isnt this services role to punish or fine the businesses we cover. I think its fair for 
BG to have recognised its shortcomings which I think that it has by its offer of compensation. 
In these circumstances, I think that the £120 offered is reasonable and recognises the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs B had suffered.
Regarding the excess charge and whether Mrs B should have paid it. The terms and 
conditions of the policy state: 
..the excess or fixed fee youve agreed to pay each time we complete a repair..
The policy schedule also states that an excess fee is payable. BG explained that when Mrs 
B took out the policy, she had the option of paying a higher premium and foregoing any 
excess payments or paying a lower premium and having to pay an excess charge. Mrs B 
accepts that she chose the latter and during the online chat, I can see that she willingly paid 
it. So, I dont think that BG were unfair to have relied upon this term and it was reasonable 
for it to have charged Mrs B the excess fee. I have considered whether Mrs Bs hob was covered under the policy. Mrs B said that each 
year when BG attended to carry out the boiler annual service, her hob was serviced as well. 
BG has said that the hob wasnt covered by the policy and if any service had been carried 
out, then this wouldve been done as a gesture of goodwill from the individual engineer who 
attended. 
I have looked at the policy schedules from 2014 to 2019 (excluding 2015 which wasnt 
supplied) and these give details as to what was covered. I have also looked at the service 
records and I can see that in addition to her boiler, annual services were covered on a 
Marlborough Coal Stove. Both parties have said that the appliance is a gas operated fire 
which was covered under the policy and serviced each year.
Unfortunately, there is no hob being listed as an appliance covered under the policy. So I am 
persuaded that there was no cover for Mrs Bs hob to be serviced under the policy and if one 
was carried out it was done as a goodwill gesture by the individual engineer. 
Overall, I think that BG has dealt with Mrs B reasonably and I am satisfied that it applied the 
policy terms fairly. I think that the £120 compensation offered is fair and if this hasnt already 
been paid to Mrs B, I recommend that she contact BG to accept this payment as I wont be 
asking BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £120 for the trouble and 
upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman