DRN-3427973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) have unfairly declined 
their travel insurance claim.
Any reference to URV also includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday abroad, departing in April 2020. They 
arranged accommodation at a villa, paying a deposit in 2018 and then the remaining balance 
in February 2020. They booked flights separately.
Mr and Mrs W took out annual worldwide travel insurance in September 2019, which was 
insured through URV. 
On 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W were contacted by the airline who advised that their flight 
had been cancelled as a result of travel restrictions imposed by the government of the 
country they were travelling to. And on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Due to this, Mr and Mrs Ws trip was cancelled. They received a refund of the flights from the 
airline, but the villa owner confirmed the cost was non-refundable  so they made a claim for 
this expense to URV.
URV declined the claim. It said there wasnt provision under the cancellation section of the 
policy to cover the circumstances giving rise to the claim. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs W 
complained to URV. They said that their claim should be considered under the section 
relating to the abandonment of the trip. URV considered this but said this section of the 
policy doesnt come into effect until a trip has commenced. So URV still refused the claim.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter 
but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that URV had outlined the insured 
events that it was willing to cover for the cancellation of a trip - the travel restrictions put in 
place by both the government abroad and the FCDO here, along with the cancellation of the 
flights by the airline, were not reasons listed as insured events for claiming under the policy. 
And she also said that she didnt think the abandonment section applied as this only 
provides cover if the flight is delayed for 24 hours from the international departure point  
whereas Mr and Mrs Ws flights were cancelled before the trip had started. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigator. In summary, they said that a trip starts once it 
has been booked, a payment made, and an insurance is in place  so a claim under the 
abandonment section is covered. And that the claim was made after the travel date. They 
also questioned if cancellation should be considered as being one state of delayed, albeit 
an extreme state. Mr and Mrs W pointed out that they had not cancelled their trip, but it was 
the airline that cancelled it  so they dont think the cancellation section applies to them.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions are separated into two parts: the pre-travel policy and the travel 
policy. Within the pre-travel policy there is the section titled Cancellation  if you are unable 
to go on your trip. This states the following:
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you 
left home:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law; 
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and 
alternative accommodation is not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to £3000 for your share of any costs that are directly related to 
your trip, which you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else, or which 
cannot be transferred or used for another purpose.
Under the travel policy part of the wording, there is a section titled Travel Delay  If you 
decide to abandon your travel plans. This states the following:
If this happened:
You decided that you did not want to go on the trip because your transport providers' 
service from your international departure point was delayed for 24 hours
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to £3000 for your share of any pre-paid expenses that are directly 
related to your trip, which you cannot get back from anyone else, or which cannot be 
transferred or used for another purpose.Was the claim declined unfairly?
Mr and Mrs Ws flights were cancelled by their airline  which led to Mr and Mrs W having to 
cancel their accommodation booking. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws comments about who 
cancelled the trip, and whilst I accept they may not have cancelled the flights, this event led 
to them cancelling the accommodation booking  therefore Im persuaded this was a 
cancellation of the trip by them.
 
The cancellation section includes a list of reasons that it will provide cover for in the event of 
a cancelled trip, as detailed above. But the cause of Mr and Mrs Ws cancellation of their trip 
isnt one of the listed covered reasons. Im satisfied that there isnt cover under this section 
of the policy for the situation they found themselves in.
Mr and Mrs W have said they think the claim should be covered under the travel delay 
section, specifically the part which refers to the abandonment of the trip. This section 
provides cover if your transport from your international departure point is delayed for 24 
hours and at that point you decide to abandon the trip. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws point of view here. 
However, I dont think the purpose of this section is to provide cover for this particular 
circumstance  Ill explain why.
As explained previously, the policy is split into two parts and the abandonment section 
referred to appears in the travel part of the policy, as opposed to the pre-travel part. As Mr 
and Mrs W had not started their travel yet, I think it would be unreasonable to say the claim 
would fall within this part of the policy. But for completeness, I have reviewed the cover 
under the abandonment section. This only provides cover if your flight is delayed for 24 
hours from the international departure point. After this period of time you can then decide to 
abandon your trip if you no longer want to go. However, Mr and Mrs Ws flight wasnt 
delayed for 24 hours from the departure point - it was cancelled some weeks prior. I have 
also taken into consideration that it is commonly expected for the travellers to be at the 
airport and checked in for the flight in order for such cover to be provided  this is not the 
case in Mr and Mrs Ws situation. Im therefore not persuaded that the intention of the 
abandonment section is to cover such a scenario as a flight cancelled some time prior to the 
travel date and it follows that I dont think it would be fair to consider their claim under this 
section of the policy.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that URV has fairly declined the claim under the 
policy terms and conditions and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman