DRN-3548782
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SE. She isnt happy that it turned down 
a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W took out her pet insurance policy for her dog in April 2020 and made a claim in 
August 2020 under the policy as her dog had laryngeal paralysis. But when Great Lakes 
looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because Mrs Ws dog had breathing 
difficulties in March 2020, about a month before the policy was taken out, which it felt was 
linked to the present claim and classed as pre-existing. As Mrs W wasnt happy about this 
she complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs W but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Mrs W found herself in she didnt think Great Lakes had acted 
unreasonably. She was satisfied that Mrs Ws dog had breathing difficulties not long before 
the policy was taken out and that Great Lakes thought this was linked to the claim. And as 
the advice was given before the policy was taken out she didnt feel it acted unreasonably in 
turning down the claim. 
As Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although I can understand Mrs Ws position - she feels her claim for laryngeal paralysis 
should be met as the early advice she gained in relation to her dogs breathing difficulties 
shouldnt be considered. But the policy is clear that it wont cover anything your pet has had 
treatment, medication or advice for in the 24-month period before the policy started. This 
is because the insurer doesnt want to cover anything that potentially started before the 
policy commenced.
So, when Great Lakes got the full medical history it showed that Mrs Ws dog had breathing 
difficulties in March 2020. The vet advised Mrs W to monitor the condition and that further 
investigations would be made if the problem continued. And when the dog was seen at a 
later stage the diagnosis was made which Great Lakes feels was pre-existing. 
I know Mrs W disputes this. But the treating vet has said it was noted as possibly laryngeal 
paralysis on the notes at the time the advice was given although they acknowledge this 
may not have been the problem then. Given this, it is difficult to say Great Lakes have acted 
unreasonably here as it is possible, on balance, that this was the start of the problem (March 
2020) that was later diagnosed fully upon physical examination. I say this as I understand 
the disease is very slowly progressive and often starts subtly. So, it is difficult given what the 
vet said originally and on the claim form to say that Great Lakes has acted unfairly.
As our investigator outlined we feel it is fair and in line with the policy for an insurer to 
decline a claim in circumstances like this - if the consumer had some reasonable knowledge 
that something may require treatment in the future, even though there wasnt a diagnosis or 
treatment given. In this instance the policy started at the end of April 2020 and the advice 
from the vet was given at the end of March 2020. And when the vets submitted the claim for 
Mrs Ws dog they outlined Laryngeal Paralysis 28 March 2020 to 25 August 2020, so the 
treating vet linked the two incidents.
Finally, I wish to reassure Mrs W that I have considered all the supporting evidence she has 
provided in finalising my position. I accept she didnt think that any treatment was required 
when she took the policy out and that her dogs diagnosis only happened after an annual 
check-up. And that the laryngeal paralysis wasnt an obvious cause of the issue but the vet 
was satisfied enough to outline the claim stemmed from March 2020 in the claim form which 
is persuasive. Again, I know Mrs W believes this was an error by the vet but, given their 
more recent comments to Mrs W (outlined above) I think this was clearly in the vets mind 
although I accept that as Mrs Ws dog wasnt seen at the time (partly due to Covid 
restrictions) this cant be verified. But I think there is sufficient evidence to say Mrs W was 
given advice in relation to her dogs breathing difficulties and that the treating vet considered 
laryngeal paralysis as a possibility which is what she claimed for a few months later. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman