The complaint
Miss Qs complaint concerns the decision by Vitality Life Limited to refuse a Serious Illness 
claim under her Vitality Life Essentials policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 June 2020. 
In summary, I concluded that I proposed to uphold the decision against Vitality. I invited the 
parties to make any further submissions, after which I explained I would issue my final 
decision. I havent repeated the background here, as it is known to the parties. However, a 
full copy of the findings set out in that decision is provided in italics below.
Unfortunately, I have reached a different conclusion to our investigator  though I agree with 
his approach in the first instance, I disagree with the suggested outcome. I intend to uphold 
the complaint in part (as regards an IME), but I do not agree that a claim ought to be paid to 
Miss Q at this stage. I realise that will come as a disappointment to her, but I will set out my 
findings below and explain why I have reached that outcome.
To be clear, this is the second claims complaint Miss Q has pursued about the refusal of her 
Serious Illness claim. The first complaint was closed in early 2019 and I will not be 
addressing that complaint further. This decision concerns the new evidence submitted to 
Vitality from Dr G, alongside the evidence it already had and specifically whether it is still 
reasonable in the circumstances for Vitality to refuse Miss Qs claim. Vitality issued Miss Q 
fresh referral rights to this service in June 2019 after saying that Dr Gs evidence didnt 
change its view on the claim.
The first part of Miss Qs policy wording requires diagnosis of SLE (systemic lupus 
erythematosus) by a Consultant Rheumatologist based on the American College of 
Rheumatology Criteria for Classification of Rheumatic Diseases. Neither party disputes Miss 
Q has been diagnosed with SLE, and I am not going to look at that further.
I realise the seriousness of Miss Qs illness and shes told our investigator about how she is 
paid state benefits that are measured on her incapacity. However, to establish whether 
Vitality has behaved fairly in the context of this complaint, I need to assess her 
circumstances against the relevant terms and conditions of her policy relating to SLE. Those 
terms form part of the insurance contract between Miss Q and Vitality.
What her policy says is that where a type of connective tissue disease is diagnosed  such 
as SLE  the policy then requires an assessment of severity to be made and for each 
qualifying level a different percentage of the policys sum assured will be due. The policy 
says how for the purposes of this plan the severity of Connective Tissue Diseases will be 
determined by the permanent inability to perform a number of functional activity tests 
(FATs).
DRN-1969403As Miss Q is aged under 65, she can be measured against both sets of FATs set out in the 
policy. Those are a list of six activities of daily living (washing, getting dressed and 
undressed, feeding yourself, maintaining personal hygiene, getting between rooms and 
getting in and out of bed) and a further six work tasks  those are walking, climbing, lifting, 
bending, getting in and out of a car and writing.  
In Miss Qs case when her GP first completed a report for Vitality, the only task which had a 
tick against it (recording Miss Q couldnt complete it with aids or otherwise) was bending. 
On that basis, Miss Q has been measured at Severity Level D which is Systemic lupus 
erythematosus causing the permanent inability to perform at least one out of six functional 
activity tests. Bending is set out in the policy as the ability to bend or kneel to touch the 
floor and straighten up again.
So, that goes further than Miss Qs consultants confirming she has SLE. I know Miss Q has 
provided a lot of detail to our investigator in respect of Dr Gs specialism and expertise. I 
dont dispute any of that. But the policy wording requires specific confirmation that Miss Q 
cannot complete one of the twelve tasks across the ADLs and work tasks and that her 
inability to do so is permanent. For clarity, the policy wording includes a definition of 
permanent which is that the inability to bend must be expected to last throughout life with no 
prospect of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or the insured person expects 
to retire.
I can see that Vitality disputes Miss Qs inability to bend as well as the permanence of that 
inability. In respect of the latter, Dr G has sought in some detail during her conversations 
with Vitality to give her view on this. She has firstly explained that her professional view is 
that taking into account any flare ups of the condition, Miss Q is not able to bend to the floor 
and straighten up on any given day. 
Further, Dr G was specifically asked further questions about the treatment Miss Q receives 
as Vitality takes the view that because Miss Q has only progressed onto second stage 
treatment (in early 2019) of several stages of treatment for SLE that it cannot be said that 
any inability to perform a FAT is permanent.
Vitalitys internal medical assessors notes record how in establishing if all the reasonable 
available treatment options have been tried and exhausted, we need to take guidance from 
the publications by the British Society of Rheumatology (1), the NICE guidelines and other 
relevant research. [Miss Q] has only tried the medication listed in points 1 and 2.  If her 
musculoskeletal symptoms continue to persist, as she is claiming, then the next approach 
after three to six months would be option 3 and progressing to 4 and 5 respectively.
Dr G disputed that. She issued a letter to this service dated 20 December 2019. In that letter 
she explained how she fully endorses [the medical assessors] comment that we should 
follow the management and treatment guidelines for SLE as published by the British Society 
of Rheumatology and endorsed by NICE; I was an author of this publication. However, I 
disagree with some of the treatment guidelines quoted from the Up to Date document. These 
recommendations are not consistent with NHS Englands guidance for treatment.
She went on to explain how in her professional view, option three was inappropriate for Miss 
Q in respect of administering a specific drug, and why Miss Q did not qualify under NHS 
guidelines for options four or five. I consider these reasonable explanations.
This is reflected by Vitalitys medical assessor where it is recognised in her report that the 
choice of therapy for SLE is highly individualized and depends on the predominant 
symptoms, organ involvement, response to previous therapy, and disease activity and severity. Dr G is therefore best placed to give her expert view on Miss Qs treatment options 
and her prognosis. Even if I accepted that Miss Q had outstanding relevant treatment 
options, Dr G has explained why she has discounted these and specifically that she has 
given her assessment of Miss Qs inability to bend (which she asserts is permanent) in light 
of her expertise as regards treating and maintaining stability for Miss Qs disease.
I believe that Vitality is incorrectly conflating permanency of Miss Qs condition (by reference 
to flare ups) with permanency of the inability to bend. They are two related but different 
points. The policy wording Ive set out above does not require Miss Q to have exhausted 
every treatment option open to her for SLE, as Vitality has suggested. Each of the FATs may 
be differently affected (or unaffected) by treatment options. I do not accept that Miss Q has 
to show that she has progressed to the final stage of SLE treatment in order to satisfy a 
particularly severity level for a Serious Illness claim or that she has permanent flare ups of 
the condition only after which a FAT could be measured.
The wording says that permanency is measured by SLE causing the permanent inability to 
perform a number of functional activity tests, and for Miss Q this is one FAT, specifically the 
bending task.
Dr G has explained in a telephone call with Vitality the extent of Miss Qs inability to bend. 
These notes show Dr G as having said that Miss Q experiences pain and stiffness and 
reduced functioning on a daily basis. The pain and limitation of her muscles makes her 
unable to bend to pick a pen up daily and permanently. Her joint and muscle symptoms are 
constant. A flare up is just a exacerbation of already limiting symptoms and they vary.
However, I do accept Vitalitys view that there is insufficient objective evidence in terms of 
observation of Miss Q in relation to the specified bending task in order to support the 
conclusion above. I appreciate that Dr G confirmed in writing on 30 May 2019 how I have 
now had the opportunity to review [Miss Q] in clinic. Today she was unable to pick a pen up 
off the floor. [Miss Q] states that this would be the case throughout the day and every day i.e 
she therefore has permanent difficulty bending.
But, I havent seen any other assessment which observes that activity, despite some 
additional explanations from Dr G. It is inherent with a task of this nature that there will be 
some degree of self-reporting by a policyholder and a medical assessment will have to be 
based on that  it simply isnt possible to conduct long-term accompanied medical 
assessments. But, Dr Gs observation was six months after she had confirmed on 23 
November 2018 that Miss Q had full range of movement in all joints with no synovitis and 
no active disease.
Though I do not expect Miss Q to have exhausted every treatment option open to her, there 
is a shortage of observation to support the existing medical evidence that Miss Q is 
permanently unable to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again and that she 
will likely not be able to do so for the rest of her life.
I am also mindful of what the policy wording requires as evidence in respect of incapacitation 
regarding FATs. It says:
D5.4 Confirming that you are incapacitated
For some types of cover, we may need to assess whether you are incapacitated. To 
make this assessment, we will need an appropriate medical specialist to confirm that 
you have an ongoing inability to perform a series of functional activity tests. You must 
need the help or supervision of another person and be unable to perform the task on your own even with the use of special equipment routinely available to help and having 
taken any appropriate prescribed medication.
Ive seen no clear evidence of consideration of any equipment which may assist Miss Q with 
the bending task, as that is something which would likely be measured by an independent 
medical examiner.
I note that in the earlier stages of investigation (approximately July 2019) our investigator 
(rightly) pointed out to Vitality that an IME would be a reasonable means to establishing Miss 
Qs functional inability to bend. Vitality didnt accept that as an appropriate measure and 
instead sought to investigate the position further with Miss Qs treating consultant.
Nonetheless, Vitality has since said we did discuss yesterday that we would be agreeable to 
conducting further enquiries at this point, inclusive of an Independent Medical Examination 
(IME), if [the investigator was] minded to conclude your view with a request for an IME. An 
IME would measure her function and effort, assess cognitive function and scale of fatigue. It 
would hopefully demonstrate with reasonable certainty whether she is capable of bending. 
However, there is also the issue that this is only part of the policy requirement and we need 
to consider the permanence side of things, so there would be a balance to consider in 
putting Miss Q through this assessment when it is unlikely to deliver the desired overall 
outcome for her claim.
Ive set out above why I consider that was an incorrect approach to allege that permanency 
of SLE was required to satisfy the claim as opposed to permanency of the ability to perform 
the specified work task or ADL. So, it follows that I agree an IME is the most appropriate 
next step to establish if Miss Q is permanently and irreversibly unable to complete the 
bending task.
Vitality ought to have given Miss Q that chance to undergo an IME in 2019, once it had 
receipt of the consultants view on permanency. I am of the view that an IME ought to be 
undertaken now.   
Miss Q said she did not agree with the decision. She said, in summary:
 
she had already seen many medical specialists and had her capacity assessed;
therefore undergoing an IME would offer no further value;
her doctor is an expert in her field;
SLE is a connective tissue disease and it is logical that this impacts on her ability to 
bend;
there have been no changes to her condition other than it having worsened;
the criteria for the policy wording ought to take account of the fact that SLE is a 
intermittent condition that occurs with flare ups;
she is concerned that Vitality will take even longer to assess her claim than it already 
has;
she also has concerns about what Vitality told her at the time she took out the policy 
in terms of the different severity levels;
she is very dubious about the reliability of an IME when her own doctors have 
already given their assessment;
she does not believe that any IME chosen by Vitality will be either neutral or 
independent  and therefore she would like the IMEs to be chosen by Lupus UK;
she has taken legal advice and this also confirmed that the IMEs ought to be 
independently selected;she has an inability to perform the bending task all of the time;
the IME should review her disability benefits assessment as it records that she 
cannot move more than 50-100 metres due to her condition and is the reasons she 
has a blue badge;
therefore the IME should take the big picture of the illness into account  including 
part failures for other FATs;
her flare ups should also be taken into account, else why does Vitality include this on 
its form;
her flare ups are not far between, they are four to five per week and she cannot work 
at all because of them;
she fails to understand how an IMEs view could be considered more significant than 
that of a leading medical expert;
she still remains of the view that Vitality ought to have taken Dr G at her word 
because she is an expert in SLE;
she contends that interest ought to be payable because it is clear her claim should 
have been paid earlier. 
Miss Q also asked our investigator to review the content of Vitalitys communications with Dr 
G, and Vitality consented to this. Upon review, Miss Q said she felt that evidence showed 
conclusively that the claim ought to be paid.
Vitality also disagreed with some of the outcome. It did accept the proposal of an IME. It said 
it would be happy to fund an IME but it did not agree to provide a choice of three options for 
Miss Q. It felt that an IME with a specific company it ordinarily uses was the most 
appropriate action. It supplied further details of that company, along with the steps it would 
take to conduct remote assessments from July 2020 onwards, with suitable adjustments for 
Covid-19.
It said it didnt think it was reasonable to suggest an IME could have been conducted sooner 
when our investigator had accepted that contacting Dr G was a better way forward. It did not 
think Vitality ought to be deemed at fault for the fact Dr G could not provide the information 
required to determine Miss Qs failure of the activity, its permanence or that any restriction 
was relatable to her SLE. Vitality said it would think this would be straightforward to answer 
given that she had already written a letter stating that Miss Q couldnt bend and the failing 
was permanent.
Vitality also said the evidence presented so far implies that the failing of the bending activity 
occurs only when Miss Q has a flare up indicating that sometimes she can bend and 
sometimes she cannot. Clinical evidence has not been able to give any context to how often 
a flare up impacts Miss Q and therefore it does not consider there is evidence to show 
permanency of the failing as it takes the view that sometimes she can bend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their replies to my provisional findings. Having reviewed the 
additional submissions, my findings on the outcome of this complaint remain unchanged. I 
believe the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Vitality must take further steps and 
issue another claims decision.
I understand that Vitality now recognises there is a difference between establishing the 
permanency of Miss Qs SLE from the permanency of her ability to complete one FAT  in this case, bending and it has confirmed that it would not seek to insist on treatment that is 
not clinically recommended to Miss Q in order to say that the permanent element of the 
criteria wasnt met.
However, it still maintains that there isnt sufficient observation of Miss Q to ascertain her 
permanent inability to bend due to SLE, and I agree with that.
As I set out in my provisional findings, the policy wording requires specific confirmation that 
Miss Q cannot complete one (or potentially more) of the twelve FATs across the ADLs and 
work tasks (in this case, one task of bending) and that her inability to do so is permanent. 
As noted in my provisional findings, the policy wording includes a definition of permanent 
which is that the inability to bend must be expected to last throughout life with no prospect 
of improvement, irrespective of when the cover ends or the insured person expects to retire.
I realise Miss Q feels very strongly that the evidence from her treating medical professionals 
shows she meets the terms of the policy, but I disagree. I recognise that Dr G has said Miss 
Qs inability to bend is permanent. But, as I explained in detail in my provisional findings 
above, there is a shortage of observation to support the existing medical evidence that Miss 
Q is permanently unable to bend or kneel to touch the floor and straighten up again and that 
she will likely be unable to do so for the rest of her life.
That Dr G has made the written observation and followed this assertion up in her telephone 
call with Vitality still doesnt determine that Miss Q is incapacitated by her inability to perform 
a FAT, when specifically looking at what Miss Qs policy terms require for a valid claim to be 
paid. This means the provisions set out in D5.4 Confirming that you are incapacitated.
It is clear from the wording that an appropriate medical assessment ought to be undertaken. 
I disagree with Vitality that it couldnt have offered an IME sooner than it has. It is an option 
familiar to insurers where there is missing evidence of observation relating to a work task or 
ADL. This could (and should) have been a reasonable consideration by making the evidence 
from Dr G available to a suitably qualified assessor. 
I also disagree that the choice of one independent medical examiner is appropriate. Given 
Vitality bears the cost of appointing the examiner, I dont consider that Miss Q alone should 
be allowed to determine who is appropriate. Nonetheless, Miss Q ought to be allowed to 
exercise a degree of choice. Offering only one IME is too restrictive as it does not permit 
Miss Q any degree of preference, where no two examiners will have factually identical 
medical backgrounds.
I therefore remain of the view that she should be allowed the choice from one of three 
experts  and those examiners ought to have demonstrable experience of assessing FATs 
as well as specific expertise in connective tissue diseases, including SLE.
I note Miss Q has said she feels it is unreasonable that the weight of medical evidence is 
given to an IME over Dr G. But that isnt what my provisional findings said. As Ive explained, 
there is a lack of observation of the work task being performed, specifically where there is no 
objective evidence of whether any special equipment would aid Miss Q. It doesnt mean that 
any assessment carries greater weight than the wording of Dr G; to the contrary, the 
evidence the parties have obtained so far should be supplied to the IME. That means his or 
her report is produced in light of Miss Qs clinical assessment by her attending medical 
professionals, and observations are made on the basis of what Dr G has said to date.
I also note Miss Q feels that in the event of a valid claim interest ought to be paid to her, but I 
disagree. Interest is applicable to claims that ought to have been paid at an earlier, defined 
point or where a consumer has been unreasonably deprived of their money in some way. That doesnt apply here because there isnt sufficient evidence of observation to meet the 
policy wording to date and therefore up to now Vitality hasnt been unfair by refusing the 
claim.
I do believe Vitality could have offered an IME sooner, even if it felt contacting Dr G was a 
better route as it was apparent that there is missing observation. I remain of the view that 
Vitality must pay Miss Q £500 compensation for the upset caused by not considering an IME 
as an option for Miss Q.
Finally, I note Miss Q has also mentioned that she feels the differing severity levels (given 
the payment of a proportion of the sum assured depends on her inability to complete one of 
twelve FATs) was not properly explained to her when she took out her policy in September 
2016. Until now, that has not been an aspect of this claims complaint and it has not been put 
to Vitality. If Miss Q wishes to pursue a complaint about the sale of her policy she can do so 
by informing Vitality, since this is the subject of a new, separate complaint.
Putting things right
To assess the claim properly, Vitality must: a) allow Miss Q the opportunity to provide any 
further medical evidence not already available (for example, the disability benefits 
assessment she has referred to); and b) pay for an Independent Medical Examination where 
the relevant policy wording I have set out above is considered.
In doing so, it must give Miss Q a choice of three suitably qualified examiners to choose 
from. As I have stated, those examiners ought to have demonstrable experience of 
assessing FATs as well as specific expertise in connective tissue diseases, including SLE.
It must also make available to the chosen examiner all of the relevant medical evidence 
including the claims assessment, a copy of my decisions and the various views of Dr G, 
specifically including her further conversation with Vitality where she discussed the 
permanency of Miss Qs inability to bend.
Vitality should be mindful in making any reasonable adjustments as they may be required to 
the standard process of an IME given the impact of COVID-19. For example, this may relate 
to Miss Q being able to travel and the safe means of carrying out any such examination. 
In the event of a successful Serious Illness claim, Vitality must pay the proportion of 25% of 
the policys sum assured for a Severity Level D claim for SLE, plus any additional payment 
as required under Miss Qs Serious Illness Cover Booster benefit.
If Vitality does not agree that a claim is payable, Miss Q remains free to pursue a separate 
complaint about that matter if she wishes to do so. 
Finally, I believe that compensation should be paid to Miss Q for the upset she has been 
caused by the prolonged claims assessment. I believe Vitality should have considered 
offering Miss Q the option of an IME at an earlier point. I therefore agree with our 
investigator that she should be paid £500 to reflect the additional stress Miss Q has suffered 
at what is already a very difficult time for her. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Vitality Life Limited. It must follow the steps I have set out 
above to provide an independent medical examination of Miss Q, following which it must 
issue a further claims decision.I also direct Vitality to pay Miss Q £500 to reflect the upset it has caused her with the claims 
assessment, where I consider an IME could have been put in place sooner.
I make no other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman