DRN-3335638
The complaint
Mr D is a sole trader. He complains about TSB Bank Plcs decision to close his business 
bank account which meant his Bounce Back Loan application was declined.
What happened
Mr D held an existing personal account with TSB which he also used for his sole trader 
business. In June 2020, Mr D decided he wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL), so 
he applied to open a business account with the bank.
Shortly after the business account was opened, TSB undertook a review of all Mr Ds 
accounts and decided to close them. The bank also didnt progress Mr Ds BBL application.
 
Mr D didnt think this was fair, so he complained to TSB. The bank didnt uphold the 
complaint and explained that it had reviewed his accounts and decided to close them. TSB 
also said it was unable to provide any more information on this. Mr D remained unhappy and 
asked this service to look into his complaint. Issues relating to Mr Ds personal account have 
been considered under a separate complaint.
Our investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong in relation to Mr Ds business 
account or BBL application. She said it was reasonable for TSB to ask Mr D to open a 
business bank account to access the BBL as it needed to complete its checks before 
accepting an application for a BBL. That request had ultimately been declined. Having 
looked at the information on which TSB had based its decision, she thought it was 
reasonable.
 
And while she understood Mr D wanted to know why, she said this wasnt something the 
bank had to share. In any event, she didnt think Mr D wouldve been eligible for a BBL as he 
didnt meet the turnover requirements under the Scheme rules.
Mr D didnt agree. He thought it was unfair he wasnt given more information so he could 
respond to what had happened and it wasnt fair his accounts had been closed. Mr D also 
said hed been told by the bank he could use his personal account for business transactions, 
and he hadnt realised he was applying for more than he was eligible for under the Scheme.
  
So he asked for an ombudsman to review the case and the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some discretion to 
decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing customers. And 
while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying for a BBL had a 
business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So it was reasonable for TSB to 
require Mr D to open a business account before it would consider an application from him for 
a BBL. 
I recognise Mr D has said the bank told him it was fine to use his personal account for 
business purposes. Id like to reassure Mr D that from what Ive seen, this doesnt appear to 
have had any detrimental impact on his application or outcome. Its likely Mr D was able to 
apply for the business account to access the BBL because hed been using his existing 
account in this way  at a time when banks were limiting who could apply under the Scheme.
Mr D told us he only opened the business account as he wanted to apply for a BBL, but he 
still wanted to know why his business account was closed. In this case, TSB has told us Mr 
Ds account was closed as it had undertaken a review and failed the banks checks. TSB has 
provided us with the information on which its decision was based. And having reviewed this, 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to take this action. I am sorry that Im unable 
to share more information with Mr D, and I appreciate this leaves him in a difficult position. 
However, TSB isnt obligated to share more information than it already has, so Im unable to 
ask it to do so. 
I acknowledge Mr D believes that because his business account was closed, he was unable 
to apply for a BBL. But I dont think that would have impacted the banks decision. I say this 
because Mr D wouldnt have been eligible to apply for a BBL as he didnt meet the Schemes 
eligibility criteria. The Scheme rules said that a borrower could apply for a loan of between 
£2,000 and £50,000  up to a maximum of 25% of the annual turnover. 
In this case, Ive seen that Mr D declared on his application that his turnover was £5,816. So 
he wouldnt have been eligible for the £3,000 hed applied for as this was more than 25% of 
the declared turnover. And the maximum he would have been able to borrow was £1,454  
which was below the minimum loan amount. So Im satisfied Mr D didnt meet the Schemes 
eligibility criteria. Mr D told us he wasnt aware hed applied for more than he was eligible for 
under the Scheme rules, but TSB has said he wasnt eligible for the BBL  not that there was 
any further action because of this.
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think TSB acted reasonably in closing his business 
account and declining his BBL application, so, I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman