DRN-3005148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mrs P, in case she 
was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mr and Mrs P and Lloyds a provisional decision on 22 July 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application had a section for PPI, where they could take or leave it. 
Here, its recorded that they checked Mrs Ps eligibility and asked for PPI to cover her. And 
Mr and Mrs P signed the form to confirm their choices. Then their mortgage offer confirmed 
the policy theyd chosen, and set out its cost separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  
the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds 
sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr and Mrs P were misled into 
buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs P aware they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P tailored advice about buying PPI, or not. 
The requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did give them advice  so to be as fair to Mr 
and Mrs P as possible, Ill assume it did. That means Lloyds had to check the policy was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mrs P was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of 
her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover  for instance, for when her 
redundancy payment ran out or her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps family may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ps 
responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Lloyds had 
recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. I also understand Mrs P felt secure in 
her situation, but accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even in 
situations that feel secure at the time. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a 
very significant, long-term commitment. There was no guarantee Mrs P would have the 
same stability or benefits in the many years to come. And if Mr and Mrs P fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So in their situation, it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs P chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mrs P wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs P in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs P could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 August 2021. Lloyds didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs P replied, which Ill talk 
about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P explained that theyve never chosen PPI on their other loans and mortgages, 
and would not have chosen this policy. I understand their argument, and it may well be that 
they have not chosen PPI on other occasions. But I can see that they did sign up for it here, 
choosing 100% of the cover for Mrs P. This was also confirmed on their mortgage offer, 
which set it out as a separate cost. And Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales 
process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr or Mrs P were misled into buying 
PPI here. So I think its most likely that they were aware they had a choice, and chose the 
policy  though given the many years that have passed, I can understand if they no longer 
remember doing so.
Mr and Mrs P reiterated that Mrs P had a good job in a stable career. But as I said before, 
accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen, even in situations which feel 
stable at the time. There was no guarantee Mrs P would stay in her job for the decades to 
come or get a new one quickly enough if needed. And a stable career does not prevent 
accidents or illnesses. So it still seems sensible that they chose PPI to protect their home.
I understand Mr and Mrs P feel Mrs Ps work benefits were comprehensive enough, even on 
half pay. But half pay is a serious reduction in income. And a redundancy payout would only 
last so long when needed to cover all of Mrs Ps prior income. Further, as I said before, this 
was a very long-term loan  and there was no guarantee Mrs P would be in the same work 
situation or have the same benefits down the line. And the state benefits were really quite 
limited. I still think the PPI could have been useful for them in case theyd needed to claim.
I also understand Mr and Mrs P felt their family support wouldve been sufficient. But Im 
afraid I do not consider that to offer equivalent protection to a regulated insurance contract. 
There was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed, and I dont think it 
would have been suitable if Lloyds had recommended potentially relying on other individuals 
to voluntarily pay the mortgage. This was Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage, not anyone elses.Mr and Mrs P suggested they could have simply given up and sold their home if they got in 
too much trouble with the mortgage. And that was technically an option. But I dont think it 
was a good one. There was no guarantee theyd be able to do so in time, no matter how nice 
the home. And no one wants the stress of losing ones home, dealing with the lengthy and 
involved process, packing up all their things and moving, and so on  all while severely ill or 
injured, or while also searching for jobs. This insurance meant they wouldnt have to go to 
such extremes and could instead protect their home and their main asset. 
Lastly, Mr and Mrs P highlighted that Id accepted it was possible Lloyds didnt give them 
clear enough information. But that does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. As 
I said before, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
their minds. And for the reasons I explained before, I dont think it was.
So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps point of view and understand where they are coming 
from, I still have not found this policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman