DRN-2687257
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M complain that Santander UK Plc gave Miss H incorrect information.
What happened
Miss H and Mr M have a joint mortgage with Santander. In 2019, Miss H spoke to Santander 
and asked if the mortgage could be transferred into her sole name. She received Universal 
Credit alongside her income from full-time employment. But Santander told her that it could 
only take into account income from benefits if she was working part-time  as she would be 
able to increase her hours when any children grew up and the entitlement to benefit stopped.
As a result of this information, Miss H said she switched to part-time employment. But when 
she went back to Santander it said it didnt accept Universal Credit at all  only child benefit 
or working tax credits. So Miss H was unable to switch the mortgage into her sole name.
Miss H said that she was extremely upset with the decision as it went against the previous 
conversation she had with Santander and she had spent a lot of time trying to get the 
mortgage in her sole name. She also said that she had given up a full-time job, which she 
cant get back, a loss of income and had to learn a new job  all during a difficult time for her 
personally. Miss H said that Santanders offer of £250 didnt reflect this. She wanted it to 
waive the early repayment charge (ERC) that applied to the mortgage  but later said that 
wouldnt be useful anymore.
The investigator thought that Santanders offer was fair. Miss H didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider it is necessarily fair for Santander to rule out Universal Credit as a source of 
income. I would have gone on to consider whether the mortgage was affordable taking into 
account all of Miss Hs income, including Universal Credit. But Miss H has decided not to 
provide this information. And Santander said the mortgage was unaffordable in any case. 
Based on the evidence available to me, I have to consider that the mortgage would have 
been unaffordable even if the Universal Credit was taken into account.
I have listened to the phone call that Miss H had with Santander. Santander tells her that it 
can only accept benefits if a borrower is employed part-time. Santander said this was its 
policy at the time in question. Santander had an obligation to communicate in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. It was the expert here and it ought to have done more to 
understand what Miss H was trying to find out. And it should have explained its policy more 
clearly. It should have explained what benefits were acceptable to it.
In saying that, I dont consider it advised Miss H to switch to part-time employment or led her 
to believe that her application would be successful if she did so. Miss H has refused to give 
me details of her new total income, so I am unable to say if she is worse off overall.
Looking at what happened, I consider that Santanders offer of £250 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience its poor communication has caused Miss H in the circumstances 
of this complaint  bearing in mind my findings that Santander never said it would approve 
the application if she worked part-time. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Miss H £250 for any distress and 
inconvenience  if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman