DRN-1555838
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a life policy to her as she didn't 
need it as she was single with no dependents.
What happened
Miss M took out a repayment mortgage in 1987 for £45,000 for a term of 25 years, and a 
premium of £3.30 each month. At the same time she took out a policy providing life cover. 
The mortgage was redeemed in 1999 at which time Miss M also stopped the life cover.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which, in short, I made the following key 
findings:
There was no evidence whether the mortgage was repayment or interest only and no 
evidence whether the policy was decreasing term or level term, so it wasnt possible 
to say the type of policy wasnt appropriate.
It was possible advice was given, but there was no basis for finding that it was based 
on the evidence.
If all Nationwide did was provide information about the policy to Miss M, and she then 
chose to take out the policy, it has done nothing wrong. Just because she was single 
with no dependents it doesnt automatically follow cover wouldnt be wanted, so 
providing information so that she could make a choice wasnt wrong.
Miss M says she was just provided with the mortgage paperwork to sign and hasnt 
got a copy of a document showing she agreed to the policy. But she will have had to 
apply for the policy and the fact she doesnt have a document showing this isnt 
evidence she didnt make the application.
Its possible she signed an application thinking it was part of the mortgage, but I cant 
say it is more likely than not any misunderstanding about this was because she 
wasnt provided with the information she needed or was otherwise misled by the 
adviser as there is no evidence to show this is what happened.
The fact Miss M has referred to a cancellation form signed by her and dated 8 
December 1987 I think shows she was aware the policy was optional.
It isnt clear if she sent the form, but given she signed it I think she was aware she 
could cancel the policy.
Miss M has said that she did try to cancel the policy, and when Nationwide continued 
to take the premium, she then assumed it was mandatory.
I can see no basis for Miss M reaching the conclusion the policy was mandatory if 
she sent the cancellation form and Nationwide then continued to take the premium. I 
can see no reason she wouldnt have checked what was happening with Nationwide 
when the policy wasnt cancelled.
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision and in summary made the following points:
The ombudsman analysis is wrong as the nature of her complaint is the policy wasnt 
necessary for a young person like her.
Whether the policy was cancelled by her or not doesnt prove she has been advised.Even if I am right in assuming that as she was able to cancel the policy she was 
advised, why did she send the cancellation soon after receiving her first statement - 
this proves she wasnt aware of the policy beforehand.
The fact the policy could be cancelled shouldnt be a measure of her being aware 
and advised at the time she took out the mortgage.
She has a very good recollection she wasnt advised.
It was very easy for her to be deceived into thinking the policy was mandatory when 
she sent the cancellation notice and the premium was still charged. 
She had to travel a lot for her job which could be a reason she didnt pursue the 
cancellation notice especially as she thought it was mandatory.
The facts are; she wasnt advised about the policy; she didnt need it for any reason; 
she has been charged a premium for all those years for a policy she didnt need; 
there is no document to prove her agreement to the policy; the fact she sent the 
cancellation and Nationwide didnt act on it proves it didnt investigate the policy; why 
she didnt pursue the cancellation isnt in question because the policy shouldnt have 
been sold in the first place; as the ombudsman doesnt trust her recollection it is 
possible she hasnt recalled following up the cancellation notice.
If she had decided to take out life insurance where is the evidence of the 
beneficiaries?
No one would make a decision to take out a policy like this in her circumstances as 
she had no one to benefit from her property if she died. 
Miss M provided a redemption statement showing the amount owing as around £19,000 
compared to the original mortgage amount of £45,000, indicating the mortgage was a 
repayment mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the points made by Miss M, but my decision hasnt changed. This isnt 
a complaint I think should be upheld. I know Miss M will be disappointed, but she has 
provided no new information that would lead me to change my findings.
Miss M has now provided evidence that the mortgage was a capital repayment mortgage. As 
there is nothing to show the policy wasnt a decreasing term policy that would decrease in 
line with her mortgage this doesnt change my findings in any way.
Miss M has suggested that she wasnt advised about the alternative of an interest only 
mortgage, which she says wouldve been cheaper. Any issue she has with the advice about 
the mortgage is something she would need to first take up with Nationwide. It isnt part of this 
current complaint which is only about the life policy. But I would point out that if she had 
taken out an interest only mortgage, she wouldve had to repay the full amount borrowed of 
£45,000 when the mortgage was redeemed in 1999, instead of around £19,000.
I note what she has said about my analysis being wrong as the nature of her compliant is 
she didnt need the policy. This isnt something I missed when I made my provisional 
decision. I accept that advising life cover for a young single person with no dependents may 
be inappropriate. And if she had been advised to take out the policy this may have meant the 
policy was mis-sold.
But I found that she hadnt been advised to take out the policy. She has also made it very 
clear in her response to my provisional decision that she wasnt advised to take out the 
policy.If she wasnt advised, then what Nationwide had to do was provide her with the information 
she needed to decide for herself if she wanted the life cover. As I said in my provisional 
decision there was nothing wrong with it giving her the information so she could choose.
Miss M suggests she was unaware of the policy initially and that there is no evidence to 
show she agreed to it. But I am satisfied that it is more likely than not she will have had to 
apply for the policy and sign an application for it. I dont think the policy couldve been started 
without her agreement and I dont think it is more likely than not that is something that 
wouldve happened.
I acknowledge she has said she has kept all the paperwork for the mortgage and doesnt 
have anything in relation to the policy  other than the cancellation form. But the fact she has 
been unable to find the application for the policy over 30 years after she took it out, and over 
20 years after it was cancelled, isnt persuasive evidence that she didnt make the 
application.
Miss M is certain she sent the cancellation form. As I said in my provisional decision, 
recollections from so long ago are unlikely to be complete, or accurate. But if I accept what 
she has said then she was obviously aware the policy could be cancelled. 
She has said when the premiums continued to be taken, after she tried to cancel, she 
assumed the policy was mandatory. Whilst I think Miss M has tried to set out what she thinks 
happened Im not satisfied that she wouldve thought this at the time. And, if that is 
something she thought, I dont think it is more likely than not that her mistaken belief is 
because Nationwide did anything to give her that impression.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman