The complaint
Mrs J complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited won't pay her the proceeds 
from a mortgage endowment policy she took out with her ex-husband. 
Mrs J is being represented in this complaint. For ease, any references to Mrs J include her 
representative. 
What happened
Many years ago, Mrs J took out an endowment policy with her then-husband, Mr J. When 
they went through divorce proceedings in 2011, a court order was issued instructing Mr J to 
transfer his interest in the policy to Mrs J within 28 days. Around 14 months later, a decree 
absolute was issued dissolving their marriage. 
In May 2019, shortly before the policy was due to mature, Prudential wrote to Mrs J asking 
her and Mr J to confirm how the proceeds should be paid. She explained they were 
divorced and asked for the proceeds to be paid solely to her. She provided the court 
documents and a letter from her solicitor confirming them to be genuine. 
Prudential reviewed the court documents  but found they didn't in themselves assign the 
policy to Mrs J. As Mr J hadn't assigned his interest as instructed, he was still a joint owner 
of the policy. Prudential requested a deed of assignment confirming the transfer to Mrs J. It 
also offered to contact Mr J if she could provide his details. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs J raised a complaint. Prudential maintained that it required a deed of 
assignment before it could pay her the proceeds. It also sent her a cheque for £150 to 
apologise for some communication issues, such as requesting documents it already held.
Mrs J disagreed with Prudential's response so referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Mr J was still a joint owner of the policy. So he thought it 
reasonable that Prudential required a deed of assignmentor agreement from Mr Jto pay 
the proceeds to Mrs J. 
Mrs J didn't accept this view. She asked if Prudential would pay her the proceeds if it was 
indemnified against Mr J trying to claim his '50% share'. It didn't agree. It clarified that Mrs J 
and Mr J are both the legal owners of the policy; they don't each own a 'share' of it. And if 
the court order hadn't been complied with, that was for the courts to enforce. It said a district 
judge could sign the deed of assignment on Mr J's behalf. It also said it couldn't be sure that 
no further court proceedings had occurred. So releasing the proceeds without a deed of 
assignment or Mr J's agreement could result in future problems. 
DRN-1196357Mrs J thought the letter from her solicitor made it clear that no further court proceedings had 
taken place. She queried whether Prudential had taken this into account. And she felt our 
investigator hadn't critically examined its correspondence. As she didn't agree, her case has 
been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. 
I'm very sorry to hear about the difficult situation Mrs J finds herself in. I understand her 
concerns about going to court and/or attempting contact with her ex-husband. I'd like to 
reassure her that I've taken these sensitive circumstances into account when considering 
whether Prudential has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I know Mrs J thinks the documents she's provided show that she's the rightful owner of the 
policy. But although they set out the intention to transfer ownership, they don't actually put 
that into effect as a matter of law and fact. The statutory requirements for transferring 
ownership of a policy (or 'thing in action') are strict, due to the potential loss incurred by the 
party transferring away their interest (cf. section 136 of the Law of Property Act 1925). A 
deed of assignment is required to formally transfer ownership. Without that, Mr J is still an 
owner of the policy. 
Whilst it may have been Mr J and Mrs J's intention that hed assign the policy into her name 
only, I've seen nothing to suggest he asked Prudential to do this. So I can't hold Prudential
which wasn't party to the court proceedingsresponsible for the failure to transfer the policy. 
I appreciate that Mrs J considers it clear that there have been no further court proceedings. 
But the solicitors letter shes referred us to doesn't explicitly say that. Although I havent 
seen anything to suggest that further court action has occurred, Im not comfortable requiring 
Prudential to potentially open itself up to legal risk as the evidence isn't conclusive. In 
addition, Mrs Js point about no further legal action taking place seems to include that no 
deed of assignment has been sought  despite Mr J's apparent failure to comply with the 
court order. And thats whats required to legally transfer ownership.
I don't consider it surprising or unfair that Prudential won't release the funds from the joint 
policy to Mrs J without a deed of assignment or Mr J's express agreement. The court order 
made it clear what needed to happen to transfer the policy. Im satisfied that Prudential has 
also been clear with Mrs J about what it needs from her. I haven't seen anything which 
persuades me that she cant obtain a deed of assignment. I appreciate there may be costs 
involved  and it may seem unfair for her to incur these. But Im not deciding whether she or 
another agent should bear those costs; the only party I have the power to make awards or 
directions against is Prudential. It wouldn't be fair for me to hold it liable for any apparent 
failings by third parties. That includes the actionor inactionof Mr J and the solicitors 
involved in the divorce proceedings. I wouldn't expect Prudential to cover the cost of 
providing information its reasonably requested  as I think its done here.
I'm aware that Mrs J originally raised some concerns about Prudential's communication 
throughout the process of trying to claim the funds. Im not sure what her view is on the 
compensation it sent her for this. For the sake of completeness, Im satisfied that the £150 
compensation it sent is sufficient to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mrs J has suffered 
because of any communication errors on Prudential's part  and is in line with awards we've 
previously made in similar cases.Overall, Prudential has a right and responsibility to make sure the funds from this policy are 
paid to the correct owner(s). Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs J, Im 
satisfied that Prudentials requirements to ensure this happens are fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman