DRN-3070792
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging him 
excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Mr D complained to Santander about his overdraft. Santander didnt respond to him and as 
Mr D was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty by 19 July 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt agree. They explained that Mr D had only been using his arranged 
overdraft and hadnt been using all of that. They said that when they completed their three-
monthly review of the overdraft they would have considered his credit file afresh to check 
affordability. They went on to explain theyd had very little contact from Mr D and were only 
told about his financial difficulty in October 2018. As Santander didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment the complaint was referred for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Ds overdraft 
on 19 July 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr D was in no position to 
sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr D was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt maintained a credit balance for an 
extended period of time. By the time of the July 2018 review he had been in credit on his 
account for only 13 days that year and he was regularly using almost all of his overdraft limit. 
Good industry practice as well as various industry codes in place for well over a decade all 
suggest that overdrafts are supposed to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I think that Mr Ds overdraft usage should have 
prompted Santander to have realised that Mr D wasnt using his overdraft as intended and 
they shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Santander didnt react to   
Mr Ds overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably. 
I also think that by the review date of 19 July 2018, Santander should also have noted that 
Mr Ds statements showed that large parts of Mr Ds income were going towards 
unsustainable sources. There were frequent payments to betting companies and to pay day 
lenders.  Whilst Mr D may not have told Santander about his financial difficulties at that point 
I think it should have been clear to them that he was struggling. Santander ought to have 
realised that Mr D was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. 
They should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr D with 
forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Santander 
didnt treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Santander UK Plc to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal on 19 July 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ds 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 19 July 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman