DRN-2711528
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds decision to
cancel his car insurance policy and add a fraud marker against his record.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr A bought a car insurance policy online. The insurer, Watford asked Mr A
to provide verification documents. Around the same time Mr A said he accessed the online
portal and changed some of his details as he realised they were incorrect. Shortly after, the
broker sent Mr A a seven day cancellation notice on behalf of Watford. Watford told Mr A it
had concerns about fraud and so it wasnt prepared to provide insurance for him.
Mr A complained to Watford. He wanted to understand why it had made its decision. Watford
told Mr A that it believed his policy had been set up fraudulently. It said details of his policy
were found to be linked to other fraudulent applications. Watford said it was unable to
provide any further details to Mr A, but it was satisfied its decision to cancel Mr As policy for
this reason was correct.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He said due to the fraud marker, his insurance is
unaffordable in his name and he can only use his car as a named driver, which is still very
expensive.
Our investigator thought Watford hadnt shown that its decision was reasonable. So he
recommended Watford remove the fraud marker and pay Mr A £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Mr A was disappointed with the level of compensation recommended, but accepted the
investigators view.
Watford didnt agree. In the meantime Watford asked Mr A to provide details of his
occupation and how he applied for the policy. Mr A provided evidence of his employment
and said he applied for the policy using a comparison website. On reviewing Mr As reply,
Watford said it showed that the occupation Mr A listed when he bought the policy didnt
match. So it remained satisfied with its decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 February 2021. I thought Watford had acted 
reasonably. So I intended not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Watford didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr A didnt agree. Ive addressed what he 
said in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this
case, Watford say , based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr A did breach the fraud
condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this,
and they say:
We have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by giving You 7 days notice in
writing. We will send a cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You and
will set out the reason for cancellation in the letter. We will not cancel Your Policy
without a valid reason for doing so.
We may also cancel this Policy with immediate effect and without refunding Your
premium if You:
 Do not keep to the Terms and Conditions of this Policy.
 Make or try to make a fraudulent claim under this Policy or where We reasonably
suspect fraud.
 Fail to cooperate with Our representatives.
Under the fraud section of the policy. Watford says:
8. Fraud
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If You or anyone acting for You:
 mislead Us in any way, including who is the main user of the car, in order to obtain
insurance from us, with more favourable Terms or to reduce Your premium;..
Given the above, Im satisfied that Watford can cancel the policy if it wants to, if a
policyholder breaches this condition.
It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need
to decide if Watford acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it
has. So Ive looked at what Watford has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Due to the nature of Watfords concerns, it hasnt shared all of the information it relied on
with Mr A. However, it has provided this service with the evidence it considered when
reaching its decision.
Mr A told us that he realised some of his personal information was recorded incorrectly after
he bought the policy. He said his marital status and details of his driving licence were wrong.
So around the time when Watford asked for verification documents, Mr A updated the details
under his policy.
Mr A says that if Watford had contacted him when he changed his personal details and 
instead increased his premium, they could have come to an understanding, rather than 
cancel his policy. 
Subsequent evidence of Mr As employment shows that the occupation recorded under Mr
As policy didnt match the job Mr A was doing at the time. Mr A says that his job title wasnt 
listed under the options provided by the comparison website when he applied for the policy. 
So he said he chose an occupation that was within the same industry, otherwise he would 
have been prevented from continuing with his application.
However, Watford decided to cancel Mr As policy before it discovered Mr As occupation 
didnt match. There were already a number of discrepancies in the personal information Mr A 
provided in order to buy the policy.
Mr A says the differences in his personal details were down to human error. But putting all of 
its concerns together  including evidence not shared with Mr A - I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Watford to decide the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And having reached that conclusion, I dont think Watford acted unreasonably in deciding not to 
charge Mr A a higher premium instead. I think it was entitled to cancel the policy and add a 
fraud marker against Mr As record with a fraud prevention agency.
I understand Mr A will be upset with my decision. But in line with my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied the actions Watford took when deciding to cancel Mr As policy were fair. So Im not 
asking it to remove the fraud marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman