DRN-2885846
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy a claim made under her pet insurance policy has been declined by Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) and that theyve added an 
exclusion to her policy.
What happened
Ms D purchased a pet insurance policy online with Red Sands. Shortly after this she called 
to check the start date as she wanted it to commence when her four weeks cover with 
another provider expired. 
The policy started on 23 September 2020. Ms D tried to make a claim shortly after as her 
dog was unwell and seen by the vet as he was suffering from stiffness and lethargy.
Red Sands declined the claim on the basis that claims for illnesses in the first 14 days arent 
covered. And they added an exclusion to the policy. Ms D was unhappy with this, so she 
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the 
policy excluded claims for illnesses in the first 14 days of the policy starting, so she thought 
Red Sands had fairly declined the claim on this basis. She also said this was made clear to 
Ms D when she took out the policy. She also said Red Sands had applied the exclusion for 
stiffness and lethargy in line with the underwriting criteria and policy terms.
Ms D didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds dog first became unwell within the first 14 days of the policy starting and she first 
contacted the vet to arrange an appointment, but then cancelled it. That isnt disputed. But 
Ms D says she wasnt made aware of the policy terms surrounding the 14-day exclusion 
period when taking out the policy. She also says in her view her dog wasnt actually treated 
until day 15 which was outside the exclusion period. 
Ive considered whether the terms and exclusions were clearly highlighted to Ms D, and 
whether it was fair for Red Sands to decline the claim. Ive also considered whether it was 
fair to add an exclusion to the policy.
Ms D purchased her policy online, and Ive seen the online sales journey. This shows Ms D 
was required to confirm shed read a statement which said she wouldnt be covered for 
accidents within the first five days or illnesses within 14 days of the cover starting. I think the 
online sales process was clear in terms of explaining this. 
After the sale, policy documents were also sent to Ms D which outlined this clearly in both 
the policy summary and full terms and conditions. The following general exclusion, which 
Red Sands has relied on to decline the claim, was in Ms Ds policy terms:
Any claims for illness displaying clinical signs within 14 days or any accident or injury 
occurring within 5 days of the commencement date.
Under vets fees exclusions, it also says:
Any illness that first shows clinical signs within 14 days of the commencement date
And highlighted in the policy summary:
What is not covered?
Significant Exclusions or Limitations
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or 
illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the 
policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.
This policy term, or something similar, isnt unusual in pet insurance policies. Whilst Ms D 
mentioned she made a mistake in not reading the documents thoroughly, Im satisfied this 
information was clear in outlining the exclusions applicable to Ms Ds policy.
Ive also listened to the brief telephone call Ms D had with Red Sands shortly after the sale, 
but before the policy started. In this she said she wanted her policy to start the day after her 
four-week cover (with another provider) had ended and she thought shed selected the 
incorrect start date by a day. The agent confirmed it was already due to start on the day 
Ms D wanted.
Ms D has said she is unhappy she wasnt told about the 14-day exclusion during the brief 
call. But the purpose of the call was solely because Ms D wanted to check the start date 
after shed purchased the policy online. Once confirmed, the agent asked Ms D if they could 
help with anything else, but she didnt ask anything further. Given the sole purpose of the 
call was to clarify the start date, the policy had already been purchased, and Ms D had 
already been provided with her policy documents which outlined the terms, I wouldnt have 
expected the call handler to go over all the policy details or exclusions.
Ms D has argued that whilst her dog became unwell during the 14-day period, he didnt 
actually receive treatment such as blood tests or injections that she tried to claim for until 
day 15. 
The policy terms say, as outlined, that there isnt cover for illnesses which start within the 
first 14 days, and this is what happened here. This includes clinical signs or symptoms. And 
she first contacted the vet about her dog being unwell within that 14-day period. So whilst 
her dog may not have had the blood tests and injections until day 15, this was following the 
signs and symptoms of illness which occurred, and Ms D first contacted the vet about, within 
that 14-day period. With this in mind, and as Im satisfied the exclusions and information was clearly presented 
in both the online sale and policy documents, I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly by 
declining the claim on this basis.
Ms D has also said she was given conflicting advice when she called to make the claim after 
her dog had received treatment. Ive also listened to that call. The agent initially said the 
14-day exclusion period would mean the claim would be declined. But they then went on to 
say they had a switcher product, and if Ms D provided a copy of her previous policy 
documents, they could be checked whether the exclusion period would still apply.
Red Sands accept the agent could have been clearer here and unfortunately gave incorrect 
information. The switcher product would only apply if the previous policy was an annual one. 
But Ms D didnt have an annual policy, rather she had four weeks free cover with another 
provider, but they didnt recognise that Ms D had already said that. They also said theyd 
need to consider whether it applied by reviewing information, including previous policy 
documents once received from Ms D. 
So whilst this may have raised Ms Ds expectations that her claim might be covered, her dog 
had already received treatment by this point and been ill within the first 14 days of the policy. 
Although Ms D says she might not have proceeded with trying to claim when she did, a pets 
clinical history would often more generally be requested whenever claims are made, which 
would likely always have shown this illness in the history, even if Ms D didnt proceed at that 
time.
Ms D is also unhappy Red Sands has applied an exclusion to her policy. This says cover is 
excluded on claims for anything to do with the stiffness and lethargy that occurred on 
5 October 2020 and resulting conditions, with effect from the start of the policy. Ms D is 
concerned claims in the future for separate illnesses may be declined using this exclusion. 
Ive seen Red Sands underwriting criteria. Im satisfied they have acted in line with this and 
the policy terms when applying the exclusion to the policy for the illness which occurred 
within the first 14 days of cover. And the wording of it indicates that the exclusion is in 
relation to the stiffness and lethargy that happened in October 2020. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. 
Red Sands has confirmed they would assess each future claim presented in line with the 
policy terms, and exclusions, if Ms D needs to make claims in the future, and I think thats 
fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman