DRN-3103304
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1996. 
Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. The 
complaint is brought by Mr K and the estate of the late Mrs K.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
The policy was cover on Mr K for accident, sickness and unemployment.
The PPI policy was cancelled by Mr K in 2001. Halifax has provided evidence to show that 
the credit agreement the PPI was taken with ended in 2004, when the mortgage was repaid. 
This means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ks representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ive summarised my reasons for this conclusion below:
 
Halifax no longer has paperwork from sale - that isnt too surprising given the time thats 
passed, not only since the sale but also since the policy was cancelled and the end of 
the mortgage. Mr K has said the PPI was just included as part of the mortgage package. 
I give this some weight, but I also bear in mind he set out his recollections for us more 
than 20 years after the sale - so it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt recall all the details.
With that in mind, Mr Ks recollections arent, on their own, enough to make me think 
Halifax just included the PPI without giving him a choice about it  and I havent anything 
else to make me think that. For example, I havent anything to make me think Halifax 
wouldnt have usually given a consumer like Mr K a choice about the PPI and got his 
agreement to it before setting it up.
Taking everything into account, and although theres not much to go on, I think its more 
likely Halifax made it clear Mr K didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. But it 
would be understandable if he didnt recall this now.
Mr K has said Halifax didnt give advice or recommend the PPI. But if Halifax did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more  and Halifax thinks it mightve given advice. With this in 
mind, I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave advice  this means it had 
to check the PPI was right for Mr K. But the evidence about his circumstances at the time 
shows the policy wasnt unsuitable for him. For example, he was eligible for it, it was 
affordable and nothing about his employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult for 
him to claim. Also he hasnt told us of any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected his ability to claim. 
Taking into account what hes told us about his sick pay and redundancy entitlements, it 
seems Mr K wouldve suffered a loss of income if he couldnt work for a longer time  so 
I think he had a need for the cover. I say this bearing in mind he had savings he couldve 
used to pay the mortgage if he couldnt work. But he chose to keep those savings intact 
when taking the mortgage, rather than using them to reduce the mortgage. So the PPI 
benefit couldve helped him keep those savings intact or free for other uses at what could 
be a difficult time if he were unemployed or too sick to work. Overall, I still think the cover 
wouldve been useful for Mr K and Halifax wasnt wrong to recommend it to him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think he wouldve done so 
without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like he 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, 
and it seems like it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. Overall, I dont 
think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what Mr K thought he was buying from the 
information its likely he was given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont 
think Mr K wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ks circumstances at the time, and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for him  and I think he wouldve still thought 
he had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr K wouldve still taken the PPI. I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think it was sufficiently 
similar to what its likely he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ks representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax shouldve disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mr Ks representatives havent said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr K and this particular complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ks particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K and the 
estate of the late Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman