DRN-1441096
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy. He 
wants it to remove any cancellation marker placed on external databases.
What happened
Mr Ps policy with Ageas came up for renewal. He told Ageas that he had been convicted of 
a non-motoring offence. Ageas said it wouldnt be able to continue cover and it gave Mr P 
seven days notice of cancellation. Mr P thought this was unfair and he said he wasnt given 
a clear reason why his policy was cancelled. He said he wasnt able to get new cover 
because Ageas had recorded the cancellation on external databases. He wanted 
compensation for the hardship this had caused him and his travel costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr P 
was right to tell Ageas about the change in his circumstances. He thought Ageas had 
correctly declined cover as this wouldnt be provided under its underwriting criteria. He 
thought Ageas had given Mr P an explicit reason for the cancellation. And he thought Ageas 
hadnt recorded the cancellation on any databases.
Mr P replied that Ageas had given him six reasons why it had cancelled his policy. He said a 
broker recommended by Ageas had declined to quote for cover. He thought Ageas had 
breached his human rights by putting him on a national database.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated by Ageas decision and I was sorry to hear of the 
hardship this has caused. I can see that hes appealed his conviction, but he hasnt told us 
the outcome. He says that Ageas gave him several reasons why it cancelled his policy. 
In its response to Mr Ps complaint, Ageas said it had cancelled his policy because he was 
deemed to be too high a risk because of the unspent non-motoring conviction. I can see 
from its correspondence with Mr P that it became aware of this when Mr P sought a quote 
for household insurance. 
Ageas then referred this to its underwriters as this was deemed to be a change in risk. 
Ageas sought further information about the conviction from Mr P. He told it hed paid the fine 
imposed. But Ageas noted that it was less than a year since the conviction and so this meant 
it could no longer offer cover.  
Ive seen Ageas underwriting criteria. I can see that it wouldnt offer cover if there was an 
unspent non-motoring conviction. So I cant say that Ageas treated Mr P unfairly, or any 
differently to other consumers, when it cancelled his policy. It gave him seven days notice 
for him to find cover elsewhere. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P said he hadnt been able to find affordable cover elsewhere because of the 
cancellation. But Ageas says it hasnt recorded the cancellation on any external databases 
as it was due to underwriting reasons. Ive no reason to doubt this. Ageas said that Mr Ps 
difficulties in finding cover was likely due to the unspent non-motoring conviction. But I think 
this is for him to take up with potential insurers.
Ageas gave Mr P the same reason for cancellation in its notice of cancellation letter. Mr P 
said hed had a call with Ageas where it said the cancellation was due to the proposal. But I 
think this refers to the change in risk between what was stated in the proposal and Mr Ps 
current circumstances with the non-motoring conviction. So I dont think this is conflicting. 
I think its for Ageas to decide the risks it wishes to cover. Mr P told it about his non-motoring 
conviction, as required by his policy terms and convictions. Ageas decided that it wouldnt be 
able to continue cover due to this not being allowed by its underwriting criteria. So I think it 
was entitled to cancel Mr Ps policy. It didnt charge him a cancellation fee. It returned his 
unspent premium. It didnt record the cancellation on any external databases. So I cant say 
that Ageas has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
I cant hold Ageas responsible for other insurers decisions on the premium they would 
charge Mr P for cover. So I dont require Ageas to pay Mr P any compensation for his travel 
costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman