DRN-2729302
The complaint
 Mr M is represented by his solicitors. The basis of his complaint is his claim that Portal 
Financial Services LLP (formerly Portafina) gave him unsuitable advice in 2013 to transfer a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) he held with Heritage Pensions Limited (Heritage) 
to a new SIPP with a new SIPP provider (Novia); and unsuitable recommendations of 
underlying investments for the new SIPP. Presently, the complaint is about determining and 
executing redress for Mr M.
What happened
 The complaint is currently about redress because last year it was addressed by one of our 
investigators who concluded that it should be upheld; both parties agreed with his 
conclusion; both parties thereafter engaged in resolving redress as presented in the 
investigators view but the matter became delayed and the parties disagreed over the 
treatments of fund valuations and fees in the context of calculating redress. The matter was 
then referred to an ombudsman to review and, in particular, to determine redress.
The main background to the complaint was set out in the investigators view. A summary of 
that view, including his findings, is as follows:
Mr Ms complaint referred to an Introducer offering him a review of his pension 
arrangements, in 2013, through Portafina. He accepted the offer and was introduced 
to Portafina for this purpose.
Portafinas suitability report stated that Mr M was 47 years old at the time, in 
employment earning around £25,000 a year, intended to retire at age 65 and that the 
Heritage SIPP (valued at around £42,000) was his sole pension arrangement. The 
report also stated that his objectives were to achieve better performance (even if this 
meant higher charges), future access to tax free cash and better fund choices.
Portafina recommended the transfer to the Novia SIPP and over 10 underlying 
investments for the SIPP. Associated fees/charges were  Portafinas initial charge of 
5% of the fund value; its annual review charge of 1%; and Novias Annual 
Management Charge (AMC) of 0.5%. The specifics of the individual underlying fund 
charges were unclear.
The investigator referred to commentary from the regulator which said (or suggested) 
that accessing cash from a pension is not, in isolation, a credible objective and that a 
firm must ascertain a clients actual investment objectives. He noted that he had not 
seen evidence of Portafina going beyond the reference to Mr M having an objective 
to access cash from the SIPP; and that Mr M already had a SIPP which gave him 
such access, so there appeared to be no reason to transfer to a new SIPP for this 
purpose.
The investigator reached a similar view on Portafinas reference to Mr M having 
objectives to achieve better performance and better investment fund choices. He 
noted that whilst there ought to have been discussion and research, led by Portafina, 
into fund switches that could have been made within the Heritage SIPP to achieve 
both objectives there is no evidence that it conducted any such discussion and/or 
research. He took the view that any compromise Mr M was prepared to make for the 
performance objective, and in terms of increased charges, did not mean such 
charges were to be undertaken unduly. As such, transferring away from the Heritage 
SIPP (and the associated costs of doing so) was a very expensive way of meeting 
this objective, which could have been explored within the same SIPP, without such 
expense.
The investigator considered that adding the fees/charges from Portafina and Novia 
unto those that would be applied by the individual investment funds was likely to 
amount to a high total level of fees/charges that Mr M would incur. He did not 
consider that there was evidence of Portafina looking into a cheaper way(s) of 
achieving Mr Ms objectives.
Overall, the investigator repeatedly found reasons to conclude that there was no 
credible rationale behind the recommendation to transfer the SIPP to Novia, given 
the lack of Portafinas consideration of and advice on likely ways in which Mr Ms 
objectives could have been met within the Heritage SIPP.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld; that Mr M should be 
paid £300 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him; and that he should 
also receive redress (based on the Heritage SIPP as a benchmark) from Portafina for 
the unsuitable advice he received.
As stated earlier, both Portafina and Mr M (through his solicitors) accepted the investigators 
findings. The redress related issues that led to referral to an ombudsman are as follows:
Mr Ms solicitors highlighted three specific underlying funds within the Novia SIPP 
which they say have been valued as nil by both the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme and the SIPP providers. They also say that a fourth fund is 
likely to move into the same position of having nil value. In contrast, Portafina treated 
these funds, in terms of considering redress, with values. Mr Ms solicitors consider 
that to be artificial and wrong.
Portafina says it learnt from Heritage that Mr Ms previous SIPP was held in cash 
before the transfer to Novia, so it considers that the redress benchmark should be 
cash based and not based on an invested Heritage SIPP.
Mr Ms solicitors say the redress presented by the investigator implicitly includes 
compensation for all the fees he incurred in what we have found to be an 
unnecessary SIPP transfer. They say they communicated this to Portafina but 
received no acknowledgement of the matter in response.
The case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Merits
I appreciate that the referral of Mr Ms case to me relates mainly (or only) to the matter of 
redress. Nevertheless, it is within my remit to consider (or reconsider) the merits of the 
complaint. I did so, and I reached the same conclusions reached by the investigator  as 
summarised above. I incorporate those conclusions (and reasons) into this decision. I uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Portafinas SIPP transfer advice to Mr M was 
unsuitable because it appears to have resulted from a lack of consideration of the likely ways 
in which his objectives could have been met within the Heritage SIPP and it appears to have 
resulted in a wholly unnecessary transfer (with costs to Mr M that were avoidable, given that 
the transfer was not necessary). In this respect, I agree with his solicitors point about 
refunding him the total costs he incurred associated with the transfer and the new SIPP. I 
consider that this was implicit within the investigators findings and I confirm, expressly, a 
finding in the same regard. The rationale for this being that those costs would not have been 
incurred had he remained with the Heritage SIPP, which he should have been advised to do, 
but for Portafinas recommendation of the unnecessary SIPP transfer and but for him 
following that recommendation and moving to the Novia SIPP.
For the sake of completeness, I summarise below the basis upon which Portafinas 
recommendation of the unnecessary SIPP transfer was contrary to regulations, expectations 
and guidance from the regulator at the time.
The regulators Principles for Businesses are relevant to this complaint and they applied at 
the time of advice to Mr M. Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence; Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems; and 
Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
                          
The regulators Conduct of Business (COBS) rules are also relevant to this complaint and 
they too applied at the time of advice to Mr M. COBS 2.1.1R requires a firm to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients and in relation to 
designated investment business carried on for a retail client; and COBS 9.2.1R sets out a 
firms obligation to assess the suitability of investments recommended to its clients. 
In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching which highlighted four 
issues a firm was expected to address in the course of advising on such a switch:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In order for Portafina to have conducted itself with due skill care and diligence, to have 
carefully and reasonably organised and controlled its advisory service to Mr M and to have 
upheld his best interests, it essentially had to discharge its advisory service to him in the overall manner set out above. On balance, I am not satisfied that it did and I have reached 
this conclusion for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator. 
Overall, it was not and it could not have been in Mr Ms best interest to be advised to 
conduct an unnecessary SIPP transfer, at costs he did not need to incur and without using 
the available opportunity(ies) to address his objectives within his existing SIPP. As the 
investigator noted  and relevant to the above checklist  I also consider that consideration 
of Portafinas ongoing fees, Novias ongoing fees and then the ongoing individual fund fees 
that would have applied for the multiple underlying funds in the Novia SIPP suggests an 
overall fees/charges liability  upon Mr M  that significantly exceeded the £325 + VAT AMC 
that Heritage confirms was applicable to his Heritage SIPP.
Putting things right
 My aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the position he would now be in if he had been 
given suitable advice. On balance, I consider that he would have behaved differently. 
It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently, I appreciate that he 
wanted to review his SIPP and to look into changes that could be made. As I have found 
above, on balance I consider that Portafina could and should have advised him on how to 
achieve those changes within the Heritage SIPP, but I accept that I cannot now say, with 
certainty, what those changes would have been. I therefore consider that fair compensation 
in the circumstances would reasonably be to return Mr M to the position he was in with the 
Heritage SIPP before the transfer. 
As such, I agree with the investigators use of the Heritage SIPP as the redress calculation 
benchmark. I have noted Portafinas point on information it discovered about how the 
Heritage SIPP was (or was not) invested prior to the transfer. The purpose of redress to     
Mr M is not to unjustly enrich him, so I agree that the benchmark for redress should be 
based on nothing other than the accurate fact(s) of what the Heritage SIPP was at the 
relevant time (and how it was or was not invested at the relevant time). This information 
must be formally sought and obtained by Portafina, must be shared transparently with Mr M 
and must then be used in the course of the redress calculation.
I make similar orders with regards to fund valuations  for the Novia SIPPs underlying funds 
 to be used in the course of the redress calculation. Portafina must formally seek and obtain 
factual and accurate current fund valuations for all the underlying funds in the Novia SIPP, 
must do so directly from Novia and/or from the relevant fund providers, must share this 
information transparently with Mr M and must then use this information in the course of the 
redress calculation.
Mr M is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Portafina to provide it with 
all consent, information and documentation reasonably required for its calculation of redress.
What must Portafina do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Portafina must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid 
to him in compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Portafina is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mr M the deduction amount and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, for him to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be 
paid into his pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. If the compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into his pension plan, 
pay it directly to him. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using his actual or expected marginal rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. If he would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr M £300 for the trouble and upset caused to him. I agree with the 
investigators finding and reasoning in this respect.
Repay all SIPP transfer related fees Mr M incurred at the outset (and 
ongoing in relation to the transfer) and the fees incurred within and deducted 
from the Novia SIPP thereafter (less the AMC he would have paid in the 
Heritage SIPP to date), plus simple interest at the rate of 8% a year on that 
repayment, from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the 
redress comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference 
between the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees 
with interest. For the sake of clarity, I consider that Mr M was in pursuit of 
pension review advice in 2013 and required such advice for the changes he 
wanted to make  changes that could and should have been addressed 
within the Heritage SIPP; so he would have incurred advice fees in any case; 
and so this provision does not relate to any initial advice fees applied by 
Portafina. 
If there is a problem closing the SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary for 
Portafina to cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or 
not) Mr M chooses to keep it operating. 
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mr M in a clear and simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mr Ms
Novia SIPPMixedMr Ms 
Heritage SIPP 
before the 
transferDate of 
transfer to the 
Novia SIPPDate of 
settlementNot applicableactual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Portafina 
taking ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible 
then Portafina may request an undertaking from Mr M  to be drawn up at Portafinas 
expense  that he repays to Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Portal Financial 
Services LLP to carry out redress as set out above and to provide Mr M with a calculation of 
redress in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman