DRN-1549573
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs M complained about the service provided by U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line Car Insurance when they claimed on their motor insurance policy after their car 
broke down abroad. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms car broke down while they were on a family driving holiday abroad in 
August. Direct Line arranged for it to be taken to a local garage that day. But a few days later 
the garage closed for a weeks holiday without repairing their car. The garage wasnt due to 
reopen until the day Mr and Mrs M were meant to be leaving to continue their holiday 
elsewhere.  
Mr and Mrs M said that Direct Line didnt communicate with them well about what was 
happening with their car. They said that Direct Line shouldnt have given their car to a 
garage that was about to close for a week. Mr and Mrs M didnt know when the car would be 
repaired, whether theyd be able to make the next part of their holiday, or how they would get 
home. This caused them worry and stress and ruined that part of their holiday. They wanted 
Direct Line to compensate them for that. 
Direct Line had given Mr and Mrs M a hire car and booked the family flights home. But they 
accepted that their service level fell below the standard they set themselves and offered 
£150 in compensation for this. 
The investigator recommended that their complaint be upheld. She thought that Direct Line 
could have resolved the matter for Mr and Mrs M more quickly to give them more certainty. 
She felt that the compensation did not fairly recognise the worry and uncertainty Direct Line 
had caused Mr and Mrs M. She wanted them to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M were satisfied with this but Direct Line didnt agree and so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy about the hire car Direct Line gave them but that matter 
has been dealt with as a separate complaint and so I dont mention it here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M were keen to get their car fixed as quickly as possible so they could continue 
with the next part of their holiday and their journey home. They felt stranded with their two 
children. They said that they had to phone and message Direct Line repeatedly to find out 
what was happening about their car. They felt that Direct Line gave them misinformation and 
let them down. And that thought that Direct Line shouldnt have put their car in a garage that 
was going to close for a week and wasnt due to reopen until the day they were meant to be 
travelling on.
 
Direct Line accepted that the service could have been improved and they could have kept Mr 
and Mrs M more up to date. They also accepted there was at first some confusion about 
what Direct Line would pay for. But they did allow two nights of accommodation, flights home 
and a taxi home from the airport. 
They also apologised for the issues with the garage. They agreed that if theyd known at an 
earlier stage about the garage closing, they could perhaps have moved the car before then. 
But this was the holiday period when a lot of businesses closed. So there were no 
guarantees that another garage would have been able to fix their car before they were due 
to travel on.   
I think that Mr and Mrs M understandably found the experience of breaking down abroad to 
be very stressful. And though clearly Direct Line didnt cause that situation, I do think that 
they made it worse than it had to be. I think that Direct Line should have realised earlier that 
it was unlikely that the garage would fix the car before Mr and Mrs M were due to travel on.
So they should have made their alterative alternative arrangements for Mr and Mrs M earlier. 
If so, I think Mr and Mrs M would have felt less stressed and uncertain about what was going 
to happen to their onward travel and return home. They could then have enjoyed those days 
of their holiday. So I think that Direct Lines compensation offer does not fully reflect the 
inconvenience and distress that their actions caused. 
Putting things right 
I think that additional compensation of £100, on top of the £150 that Direct Line have already 
offered, is more reflective of that inconvenience.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance to do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs M total of 250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience, 
less the £150 if they have already paid that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr 
and Mrs M accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Direct Line consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs M how much they have taken off, and give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
