DRN-1988423
The complaint
Mr G complained that his insurance broker One Sure Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened 
When Mr G took out his policy, he also took out an agreement with a finance company to 
enable him to pay the annual policy premium monthly. He paid the finance company by 
monthly direct debits.
When one payment to the finance company was overdue, Mr G asked One Sure for more 
time to pay it.  One Sure agreed, but by mistake they didnt tell the finance company. So 
when Mr G didnt pay the finance company at the correct time, they cancelled his finance 
agreement due to non-payment.
Mr G said that this was due to One Sures mistake. He said it led to One Sure later 
cancelling his policy because he couldnt pay the premium. He had health issues and said 
that he had to go back on medication at the time because One Sures actions put him under 
such financial and emotional stress.
The investigator didnt think that this was One Sures fault. She thought it was unlikely that 
Mr G would have kept paying for the policy on time and so it would have been cancelled 
anyway. 
But she did uphold the complaint because One Sures mistake meant that this happened 
earlier than it might have. So it made matters worse for Mr G at a difficult time in his life. 
She thought One Sure should pay him £250 compensation to acknowledge that and reflect 
the stress their mistake caused him. 
Mr G didnt think this was enough. And One Sure didnt agree either. They didnt think that 
they had done anything wrong.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G took out his policy in about November 2018. The finance companys records showed 
that he made payment late for most of the next few months after that. By April his agreement 
with the finance company was in arrears and they had set a last chance payment date for 15 
April 2019. One Sure wrote to him saying the policy would cancel then too. But Mr G called 
One Sure to ask for more time to make that months payment and they agreed to payment 
by 19 April. 
But One Sure didnt tell the finance company this. So when Mr G didnt pay them by 15 April 
the finance company cancelled the agreement. The finance company told our investigator 
that if they had known about the extension One Sure gave Mr G, they would have agreed to 
it. 
With the finance agreement cancelled, that meant that the full annual premium became due 
to One Sure. But Mr G couldnt afford to pay that all at once, so One Sure agreed an 
instalment repayment programme with him. But by about October 2019 he still hadnt kept to 
it. So, after warning him they would cancel the policy, they did cancel it. I think One Sure 
gave Mr G fair warning of that, and it was reasonable of them to do that in the 
circumstances. 
Mr G said this was all One Sures fault. He said as follows. If theyd told the finance company 
that theyd agreed a payment extension with him, the finance company wouldnt have 
cancelled the agreement. So hed have continued to make the payments on time. And he 
wouldnt then have had to pay his insurance in larger instalments that were not affordable at 
that time. And One Sure wouldnt have cancelled his policy.  
I dont think that it was One Sures fault that Mr Gs finance agreement was withdrawn. This 
is because Mr G already had a poor payment history under that agreement and the finance 
company had already cancelled a previous agreement because of non-payment. And, after 
the finance agreement cancellation, I think that One Sure were trying to be helpful in 
allowing him to pay off the remaining premium balance to them in instalments.
And though Mr G says he had to sell cars at less than market value to pay the instalments, I 
dont think thats One Sures fault either. One Sure werent trying to put pressure on Mr G but 
were giving him leeway to make payment easier for him so that he could continue with his 
policy. And I think that was fair of them. But I do think that One Sures mistake made this at 
least happen earlier than it might have, so it made matters worse at a time when Mr G was 
under stress anyway due to his health and life circumstances. 
Putting things right
So I think that One Sure should pay Mr G £250 compensation to acknowledge that and 
reflect the stress this would have caused him.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require One Sure to do the following:
Pay Mr G £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
One Sure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If One Sure consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much they have taken off, and give Mr G a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
