DRN-2856291
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Ald Automotive Limited, trading as Kia Contract Hire, charged her after 
she returned her car at the end of her hire agreement. Mrs P is represented in this complaint 
by her daughter, Ms M.
 
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs P acquired a car financed through a hire agreement with Ald. The lease 
period was due to end on 14 October 2019. Mrs P said as she was visiting her daughter, she 
called a dealer local to her daughter to arrange to return the vehicle. She said the sales 
advisor confirmed she could, so she returned the car on 14 October and put the keys in an 
envelope through the letter box. She said she was told to do this by the advisor.  
Mrs P said she didnt hear anything until 11 November when she received an invoice stating 
she needed to pay a late hire vehicle cost covering 14 October to 31 October. Mrs P replied 
on 29 November querying the charge because she said she had returned the car as per the 
agreement. She enquired with the dealer to find out if the car had been collected by Ald and 
was told it was collected towards the end of October. Mrs P said at no point did Ald call her, 
leave voicemails or otherwise inform her about what to do with the car, which is why she 
called the dealer convenient to her location prior to 14 October. She said had she known the 
car needed to be returned to the dealer it was supplied from she would have done so. She 
said she understood her letter of 29 November 2019 had resolved the situation but then 
received a letter in November 2020 with another invoice for the additional period of 1 
November to 15 November 2019. She complained to Ald. 
In its final response Ald didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said it had charged her correctly 
in line with the terms and conditions of the contract. Ald said it made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mrs P by letter, confirming the process for returning the vehicle and that this 
information was available within the terms and conditions. 
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and brought her complaint to this service. She said she hadnt 
received any communication and asked for proof that she had received the letters.
Our investigator concluded that Ald hadnt done anything wrong. She was satisfied it had 
written to Mrs P with instructions for how to return the car. Mrs P asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P, but having done so I wont be asking 
Ald to do anything further. 
Ive seen a copy of the letters Ald sent to Mrs P shortly before her agreement was due to 
end. It sent them under its trading name Kia Contract Hire. In the letter dated 17 April 2019 it 
said the agreement would end in October and invited Mrs P to start to think about her future 
requirements. In addition to other points concerning how to return the vehicle it stated:
Please do not return or leave your vehicle with any dealer without firstly advising us, as we need 
to make arrangements for the above inspection to be booked and formally take possession of the 
vehicle from you.
Ald wrote again on 30 August. It reminded Mrs P that her agreement would end in October. 
It invited her to make arrangements for the vehicle collection. A phone number and email 
address are clearly marked on the letter. 
Ald wrote again on 4 October. This letter reminded Mrs P of arranging for the vehicle to be 
collected as well as late payment charges. Again the phone number and email address are 
clear. And then, in the letter dated 21 October Ald reminded Mrs P of the consequences of 
late collection. None of these letters instructed Mrs P to call her local dealer and Im satisfied 
it was clear from these letters that Mrs P should contact Kia Contract Hire to make 
arrangements and not a local dealer. 
Mrs P said she didnt receive any of these letters and asked for proof that she received 
them. Ms M suggested Mrs P perhaps thought the letters were junk mail. Im satisfied the 
letters were addressed correctly and sent. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect 
Ald to be responsible for Mrs P not receiving them or thinking the letters were junk mail. 
Mrs P also said she returned the vehicle on time. She said Ald knew where the vehicle was 
five days after it was dropped off, according to the sales advisor at the dealer, and it delayed 
collecting it. She said she cannot be responsible for that. She also said the dealer 
employees needed to be trained to respond appropriately when a customer calls about 
returning a vehicle. Mrs P said she is in her late seventies and is finding this situation 
increasingly stressful. 
Ald said it wasnt notified of the location of the car until 11 November 2019 and didnt take 
possession until 15 November which is why the charges were extended to this date. While I 
dont dispute Mrs Ps version of events I dont have any evidence of the communication 
between the dealer where Mrs P dropped the car and Ald. I consider it quite possible that the 
reason Ald asks customers not to return or leave the car with any dealer without advising it 
first is in order to prevent this delay in ensuring Ald has taken possession of the car and 
inspected it. The inspection is for the benefit of both parties. I understand why Mrs P 
suggests staff at the dealers should be trained but this would be up to the dealership itself.
Mrs P has my sympathies and Im sorry to hear that this situation has caused her stress. I 
can see that she returned the car to the dealer closest to her daughters house on 14 
October 2019 in good faith. And it wasnt helpful that Ald took over a year to conclude the 
matter. But Im satisfied that it hasnt done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman