DRN-3744028
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
In December 2010 Bank of Scotland approved Mrs Ms application for a credit card with an 
initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to £1250 in January 2016.
Mrs M says that Bank of Scotland shouldnt have lent to her because of the amount of 
external credit she already held.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator said that this service couldnt 
consider the original decision to approve the credit card application due to the time limits set 
out in our rules. Then investigator didnt agree that Bank of Scotland had lent irresponsibly 
when it increased Mrs Ms credit limit in January 2016.
Mrs M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
This is my decision on whether Bank of Scotland acted irresponsibly when it increased Mrs 
Ms credit limit in 2016. My decision on whether this service can consider the part of the 
complaint which relates to the application for the credit card in 2010 will be issued 
separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im going to look at Bank of Scotlands decision to increase Mrs Ms credit 
limit in 2016.
Mrs M has provided copies of her bank statements from October 2015 to February 2016.
Bank of Scotland has sent us information about the checks it completed before it increased 
the credit limit.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure that it does so in 
a responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, a 
business should ensure that it carries out proportionate checks to make sure the customer 
can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take into 
account various factors, such as the amount being lent, the monthly repayment, the 
customers credit history and the customers income and outgoings.
Here, Bank of Scotland says it carried out credit checks before approving the credit limit 
increase. It says it reviewed information held by credit reference agencies. It says it looked 
at information it already held about Mrs Ms income.
Based on the information Bank of Scotland has provided about the checks it carried out, I 
think it wouldve been proportionate if Bank of Scotland had carried out further checks to find 
out about Mrs Ms income and expenditure, including other credit commitments she had at 
the time.
Because of this, Ive looked at Mrs Ms bank statements for the three months leading up to 
the credit limit increase. These give a reliable indication of her income and expenditure at 
the time. The statements show that Mrs Ms average monthly income was £3364. Mrs M has 
told this service that this figure includes her husbands salary. The statements show that Mrs 
Ms average monthly disposable income (after payment of essential expenditure such as 
mortgage, utilities, credit cards, store cards and food/housekeeping) was around £298.
Theres nothing in Mrs Ms bank statements to suggest that the increased credit limit wasnt 
affordable, or that Mrs M wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit. Therefore, had 
Bank of Scotland looked at this information, I think it wouldve reached the same conclusion 
and found the credit limit increase to be affordable.
Based on what Ive seen, I think that Bank of Scotland carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs M could afford to repay the credit. Im not 
persuaded that Bank of Scotland lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman