DRN-1715347
The complaint
Mr O complains American International Group Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his personal accident policy. 
What happened
Mr O was a member of the armed forces, and took out a policy with AIG which included 
personal accident cover. Whilst working in the forces, Mr O suffered a non-freezing cold 
injury (NFCI) and was later medically discharged from the army. Mr O has said as a result 
of this injury, hes no longer able to work. 
Mr Os policy contains two different sections in relation to permanent total disablement  1a 
and 1b. Mr O previously made a claim under section 1b of his policy, which AIG has paid. 
However the focus of this complaint is the claim he made under section 1a of his policy.
Permanent total disablement 
As shown in section B item 1a is the total inability to do any paid work of any kind 
which will probably last for the rest of your life. 
As part of its assessment of his claim under permanent total disablement section 1a, AIG 
asked for a report from Mr Os treating consultant, Dr V. However, AIG was told Dr V would 
be unable to provide a report. So it referred to Dr C, a consultant vascular surgeon. 
Dr Cs report issued in January 2018 commented on Mr Os injury restricting him to an 
indoor and sedentary job. And following this, AIG turned down Mr Os claim. 
Mr O later contacted Dr C again, and he wrote to AIG. In his letter Dr C said Mr O was 
experiencing severe pain in his hands and was unable to use a keyboard. He said that it 
wasnt possible to say how long it would take for Mr O to recover from this, and he said he 
might be permanently disabled. Dr C asked AIG to reconsider Mr Cs claim on that basis. 
AIG said Dr Cs report and letter hadnt confirmed Mr O was unable to undertake any form of 
paid work for the remainder of his life, as stipulated by the policy terms. So it didnt change 
its position on the claim. But it told Mr O it would consider any further medical evidence he 
was able to provide.
Mr O arranged a report from an occupational health nurse, at his own expense, and sent this 
to AIG. The nurses report commented on Mr Os symptoms of NFCI and also depression. 
And said Mr O was unfit for any type of work at that time or in the future. 
As the findings contained in the occupational health nurses report differed from those of 
Dr C, AIG asked Dr C to review the new report. AIG contacted Dr C at the end of July 2018. 
However there were delays in Dr C responding, so in November 2018, AIG appointed 
another doctor to review the reports  Dr W.
Dr W previously reviewed Mr Os medical records in relation to his earlier claim. He said 
Mr Os condition appeared to have deteriorated since 2015. However he said he thought this 
was associated with the development of pain syndrome connected to his psychological 
condition, and not the NFCI hed sustained.
AIG asked Dr W to clarify his opinion of Mr Os ability to work. And Dr W said the following: 
At the time of his discharge from the army in 2015, there does not appear to have 
been any reason to restrict his employment in any capacity, other than to avoid 
working in cold conditions with regard to the probably prior episodes of non-freezing 
cold injuries.
As referred to in my most recent report, the deterioration in health subsequently 
cannot be directly linked with the history of non-freezing cold injuries, as further 
progression of this condition requires that further cold exposure must have been 
experienced.
Were it not for the additional medical problems that have subsequently supervened, 
the restrictions on occupation would currently be the same as noted above.. 
Following Dr Ws reports, AIG maintained that Mr Os claim under permanent total 
disablement 1a was still declined. Mr O said he thought Dr Ws report was biased in AIGs 
favour. So AIG agreed to appoint an independent medical examiner - Dr R1. 
Dr R1 examined Mr O and reviewed the earlier reports and his medical history. Dr R1s 
report said there was evidence of NFCI, but he said thought the functional impact to Mr O 
was complicated by his psychological wellbeing. 
AIG asked Dr R1 if he thought Mr O would be unfit for all types of paid employment for the 
rest of this life, solely due to NFCI. And Dr R1 said: 
I certainly think he is not able to work in an outdoors role with exposure to cold 
conditions, due to ongoing symptoms. However I do think that he is able to perhaps 
work, in a part time capacity, at least, in a warm environment, carrying out 
administrative type duties like he was able to do in the army when he had this 
condition. If his neuropathy affecting his hands would prevent him from typing, 
adjustments such as voice activated consoles could be considered as an appropriate 
measure to support him in the workplace. There I would certainly question the 
perception that he is unable to work for the rest of his employment life despite the 
ongoing symptoms and reported disability.
AIG didnt change its position on Mr Os claim following Dr R1s report. Mr O said he 
disagreed with Dr R1s report. He complained to AIG and asked it to arrange another report. 
AIG responded to Mr Os complaint. It maintained it had been correct to decline his claim. It 
said it wouldnt appoint another doctor, but would review any further medical evidence Mr O 
wanted to provide. 
Mr O obtained a report from an occupational health doctor  Dr R2  and sent this to AIG. 
Dr R2 had examined Mr O in person and his report described Mr O having difficulties with 
walking, standing and day to day tasks such as cooking and eating. In relation to Mr Os 
ability to work, Dr R2 said: 
I do not believe that he is fit for any form of work at present or in the future. This is 
based on the limitation of mobility, severe functional difficulties because of the upper 
limb disability, severe pain and also cumulative effects of medication reducing cognitive abilities. These impairments are likely to persist over the foreseeable 
future.
AIG asked Dr R1 to comment on Dr R2s report. It said Dr R1s opinion differed in that he 
had said Mr O was capable of some form of work. And it said Dr R2 had not reviewed Mr Os 
full medical records, so it didnt think it out-weighed the report from Dr R1. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr O brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said he thought AIG hadnt declined Mr Os claim 
unfairly. 
AIG didnt make any comments on the investigators view. 
Mr O disagreed with the view. In summary he made the following points:
Dr C had verbally advised he would be unable to work again, but Dr C had become 
unwell and hadnt responded to AIGs requests. And he said AIG could contact Dr C 
again;
Dr R1 was biased in favour of AIG;
both of the reports he obtained himself were in his favour;
AIG relied on their own experts despite him obtaining two reports; 
Dr R2 has a vast understanding of NFCI and had obtained advice from a renowned 
specialist; and
he provided a letter from the NHS pain management clinic showing it had been 
deemed that further treatment of that type wouldnt help his condition. 
 
As Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, its been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers have a responsibility to settle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt decline 
a claim unreasonably. And in this case, I dont think AIG has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Os policy defines permanent total disablement (section 1a of his policy) as the total 
inability to do any paid work of any kind which will probably last for the rest of your life. And 
this section of the policy pays a lump sum benefit. This means for Mr O to receive this 
benefit, he has to evidence to AIG that he is totally unable to do any paid work, of any kind, 
and that this will probably be the case for the rest of his life. 
Ive considered all of the medical reports which have been provided. These include the 
opinions of five different medical professionals. Three of these reports were arranged by 
AIG, and two by Mr O himself. Two reports obtained by Mr O have supported his position that he is unable to work, and 
have contradicted the three reports obtained by AIG. Im not a medical expert, so I have to 
consider whether AIG has acted unfairly and unreasonably by placing less weight on the 
reports Mr O obtained. 
Dr C is a vascular surgeon, and as such I think he is the most highly qualified of all of the 
medical professionals who have provided a report on Mr Os condition. Because of this 
I think the most reliance should be placed on Dr Cs report. 
Dr Cs report and letter do not support that Mr O would be unable to work again. Dr C 
commented on Mr O being limited to an indoor and sedentary job. And whilst Dr C states in 
his letter that Mr O is permanently disabled, he didnt comment on Mr Os ability to carry out 
any paid work for the rest of his life. So Im not persuaded that this contradicts the 
information in Dr Cs original report which said Mr O could complete an indoor and sedentary 
job. 
Mr O has said that Dr C had verbally advised that he would be unable to work again. Ive 
considered this. However, as the report and further letter Dr C provided didnt state this, Im 
not persuaded that this was his opinion. If Dr C had concluded Mr O would be unable to 
work again, I think it most likely he would have included this information in his report and / or 
his letter to AIG. 
In July 2018, Mr O obtained a report carried out by an occupational health nurse, and 
submitted this to AIG. The nurse summarised in her report that she thought Mr O was unfit 
for work at that time and in the future. 
AIG told Mr O it would share the report with Dr C and ask him if he agreed with it. And I think 
it was reasonable for AIG to do this, as the occupational health nurses conclusions differed 
from those in Dr Cs original report. 
Unfortunately, due to delays on Dr Cs part, he was unable to comment on the report. And 
because of this, AIG appointed another doctor to review the reports  Dr W. Ive seen 
evidence that AIG was actively chasing for a response from Dr C. And as he had not 
reviewed the reports after several months had passed, I think it was reasonable that AIG 
appointed another doctor. 
Dr W had reviewed Mr Os case previously in relation to his previous claim. He reviewed his 
previous report together with those from Dr C and the occupational health nurse. He 
concluded that Mr Os NFCI injury wouldnt prevent him from working in some capacity, and 
as a result, AIG maintained its decision to decline the claim.
I think AIGs decision to rely on the findings of Dr Ws report was fair. I say this as Dr C and 
Dr W are more qualified than the occupational health nurse. And Dr W was provided with 
both of the earlier reports to review, as well as having an awareness of Mr Os medical 
history. 
Mr O said he thought Dr Ws report was biased in AIGs favour. And AIG agreed to appoint 
another independent doctor  Dr R1. He found that Mr O was unable to work in certain 
conditions due to his NFCI, but he did not agree that he would be unable to perform any 
work for the rest of his life. 
Mr O asked AIG to appoint another doctor, and it refused, however it said it would review 
any other evidence Mr O wanted to provide. I dont think this was unreasonable, considering 
the number of reports already obtained, which pointed to Mr O being able to do some form of 
work. Mr O then obtained his own report from an occupational health doctor - Dr R2. Dr R2s report 
said he didnt think Mr O was fit for any work at that time or in the future. As this conflicted 
with three of the previous reports, AIG referred Dr R2s report to Dr R1 for comment. And 
Dr R1 said Dr R2s report had not changed his mind that Mr O was capable of some form of 
work.
Dr R2 said he had based his conclusions on two studies into cold illnesses, and had also 
taken advice from another doctor. And I note Dr R1 also said he had read several research 
papers on NFCI when compiling his report.
Dr R1 and Dr R2 are both occupational health doctors, but Dr R1 is a consultant, so he is the 
more qualified of the two. And as Dr R1 had reviewed Mr Os medical records and earlier 
reports and Dr R2 had not, Im persuaded AIG acted reasonably in placing more reliance on 
Dr R1s opinion. 
Ive seen no evidence which leads me to think that any of the medical professionals 
appointed by AIG were biased. And when Mr O raised these concerns about Dr W, AIG 
agreed to appoint another independent doctor. When Mr O also questioned Dr R1s 
impartiality and requested another report, AIG refused but said it would review any other 
evidence from Mr O. I dont think this was unreasonable in the circumstances, considering 
AIG had appointed Dr R1 because Mr O said Dr W was biased in AIGs favour.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr O is suffering with symptoms of NFCI, Im not persuaded hes 
demonstrated hes incapacitated to the degree set out in his policys definition of permanent 
total disablement section 1a. And because of this, I dont think AIG had declined his claim 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against American International Group Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman