DRN-2747194
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was provided with misleading information when he tried to pay off 
the balance due on a hire purchase agreement he had with Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc (TFS). 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr S entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with TFS. He made 
payments in accordance with the agreement, but at the beginning of 2019 decided that he 
wanted to pay off the balance due and end the agreement  as he was entitled to do.
On or about 4 February 2019 TFS told Mr S that he would need to make a payment of 
£8,286 to settle the agreement. That figure was valid for one month. Mr S says that he sent 
two messages about the settlement to TFS but did not receive a reply. Because he received 
no response to those messages, he sent a payment of £7,000 to TFS on 13 February 2019. 
When Mr S checked his account the following day, it appeared to show a zero balance and 
that the account was closed, but there was no evidence of the payment of £7,000. The same 
information appeared over the following few days. Mr Ss bank account was not debited with 
the payment of £7,000 and on 19 February he therefore paid £8,286 by credit card to settle 
the account.  
Mr S felt that he had been provided with misleading information and complained to TFS and 
then to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint but not believe that 
TFS had acted unfairly. Mr S did not accept the investigators initial conclusions and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with the messages that Mr S sent after he had received the settlement 
figure. It seems they were sent via an online portal. TFS says they were sent via My Toyota 
rather than via My Finance; the result was that they were sent to Toyota GB and not to 
TFS, which was not therefore in a position to respond to them. I accept that this is what 
happened and that TFS could not be expected to reply to messages it had not received. 
As far as the payment of £7,000 is concerned, I note that it does not appear to have left Mr 
Ss bank account. It is not clear why that was, but I do believe it is clear that this was not a 
case where a payment was made but not applied (or incorrectly applied); no payment was 
received by TFS, so it could not apply it as Mr S had intended. 
I turn then to the online information about Mr Ss account, which he says was misleading. I 
note first of all that Mr S had been provided with a settlement figure of £8,286 and, when he 
checked his account, believed he had made a payment of £7,000. He knew there was 
something left to pay, although he may not have known exactly how much. 
Mr S says the information suggested the account was closed. The screenshot he has 
provided is headed My agreements and includes at the top what appears to be an Active / 
Closed option. The Active option is black on white and the Closed option is white on 
black. It may be that the screen version used different colours, but I cannot be sure which 
option had been selected when the screenshot was taken. I cannot say with certainty 
however that the account was showing as Closed.     
The screenshot does show however that the next monthly payment was due on 28 February 
2019 and that there were 28 payments remaining. In the circumstances, I dont believe that 
Mr S can have taken the statement to mean that his agreement had been repaid and his 
account was closed. It did say that the Outstanding balance was zero; TFS says this meant 
that Mr Ss payments were up to date. There is in my view a degree of ambiguity in the 
expression Outstanding balance, but in the context here it could only really refer to any 
payments that should have been made but which had not. As I have indicated, Mr S knew 
that he had not paid enough to end the agreement and cannot have understood the 
statement to mean he had nothing left to pay.
When Mr S did make a payment to settle the hire purchase agreement, I can see that it was 
applied promptly and that TFS wrote to him to confirm that the agreement was at an end.            
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not believe that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc has treated Mr S 
unfairly and I do not require it to do any more to resolve his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman