DRN-3255484
The complaint
Mr C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was reversing in a car park when his car and another bumped into each other. Mr Cs 
car had little or no damage and he didnt make a claim. The other driver (the third party) 
claimed against Mr Cs policy.
AXA initially defended the claim, although it told Mr C that the most likely outcome would be 
a 50/50 shared liability. But, after the third partys representatives produced an independent 
witness statement holding Mr C at fault for the accident, AXA settled the other drivers claim 
in full. Mr C said that the witness statement was fabricated and therefore fraudulent. 
Mr C was very unhappy with AXAs handling of the matter and complained. AXA didnt 
initially provide a substantive response but, when it eventually did, it acknowledged that it 
should have further investigated the possibility of a 50/50 split liability settlement. It also 
acknowledged its communication with Mr C had been poor and it offered him a total of £225 
compensation.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it. He didnt think AXA needed to do anything else. He also added that concerns about 
complaints handling werent within our jurisdiction  so we couldnt consider Mr Cs concerns 
in this respect. Mr C didnt agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct AXA to take any further action. 
In bringing this complaint and in response to our investigator's assessment of it, Mr Cs 
made a number of points. I've considered everything hes said and everything on file. But, 
I trust he will not take as a discourtesy that I don't intend to address each individual point 
raised. Instead, in setting out what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint 
Ive focused on the reasons that are central to my decision making. So, if theres something 
I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Its because Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
I need to make clear that it's not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Cs policy allows AXA 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Cs consent to decide how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that he doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see 
whether or not its done so reasonably.
In this case the accident happened while both drivers were reversing in a car park. They 
both thought the other was at fault for the accident. Mr C had little or no damage to his car 
and so didnt make a claim. But the third partys car did suffer some minor damage, which 
his representatives arranged repair of. And, as the third party blamed Mr C for the accident 
as is usual in those circumstances  his representatives made a claim for the costs of the 
repair from Mr Cs policy. 
Ill add that I'm aware that it was a law firm, rather than an insurer, who were representing 
the third party. But theres evidence on AXAs file that the third partys insurer were aware of 
this. And it's not uncommon for some insurers to refer their clients to law firms to pursue 
claims, particularly where their policyholders believe they are not at fault for the accident. So 
I don't find anything untoward about the involvement of legal representatives rather than an 
insurer directly in the claim.
As I've said above, this was a case where the two drivers concerned both felt the other was 
to blame for the accident. And I've seen the third partys written statement describing his 
version of how the accident happened, which AXA had on its file. Its of note that both Mr C 
and the third party describe the accident in a similar fashion. They both say they were 
reversing when the two cars came together. Where they differ is that the third party implied 
Mr C wasnt looking where he was going, whereas Mr C said the third party drove too fast. 
From the outset the third partys representatives held Mr C fully at fault and sent that 
allegation to AXA. Similarly, AXA, initially at least, told the third partys representatives that it 
held the third party fully at fault. But, as Mr C wasnt claiming for any damage, and the third 
party was, it was the third partys representatives that were pressing AXA to settle their 
drivers claim. AXA had no claim to settle.
Looking at matters objectively, in my experience, where both parties blame each other and 
in the absence of any other evidence, the most likely outcome would be for the drivers 
representatives to agree to settle the claim on a 50/50 shared liability basis. Insurers often 
follow that route as essentially it becomes one drivers word against the others. And the 
representatives have no reason not to believe their client, so the only other route to 
resolution would be to take the matter to court. That can be a time consuming and expensive 
procedure. It carries a significant element of risk as there is no guarantee of a positive 
outcome but an almost guaranteed cost, even to the winning party. And, as the drivers 
representatives will be aware, even at court, with the absence of other evidence, a 50/50 
liability outcome would probably be expected. Indeed I've noted that AXA told Mr A at an 
early stage that a 50/50 split liability outcome was likely.
But things took an unexpected turn when the third partys representatives provided a witness 
statement. The witness clearly blamed Mr C for the accident. The witness said he was 
making a delivery at the time of the accident, that he didnt know any of the parties before 
the incident, and he was prepared to give his evidence in court. 
Where there is independent witness evidence like this, that favours one side over the other, 
that may prove crucial in determining liability. And, given that the third party had a witness 
prepared to give evidence in his favour and Mr C didnt, AXA decided it wasnt in a position 
to defend the claim and so it settled it.
I can understand why Mr C was somewhat shocked to learn of this independent witness. He 
wasn't aware of any witness at the scene and the third partys representatives didnt 
immediately refer to this evidence. Further, there is a very clear discrepancy in the witness 
evidence. Most notably he said that Mr C had reversed his car into the third partys car while 
that car was still in its parking bay. But the third party himself had been clear that hed reversed out of the parking bay before the cars had come together. And this was certainly 
something Mr C and the third party agreed about. So the witness was clearly wrong to say 
the accident happened while the third partys car was still in the parking bay. But that doesn't 
mean that the witness evidence was fabricated or fraudulent as Mr C has alleged. The 
witness may just have been mistaken.
As I've said above, the witness had explained why he happened to be in the location, 
making a delivery, when the accident happened. And he confirmed that he didnt know the 
third party and was happy to have his evidence tested, under oath, in court. So AXA had no 
reason to believe that the witness was anything other than a genuine, independent observer 
of the accident. But, as already noted, there was a clear factual error in his evidence that 
warranted further testing. That is, he said the third partys car was in the parking bay at the 
time of the incident, when the third party himself had confirmed it wasnt. And had AXA 
explored this matter further that might have resulted in the witness evidence being 
discredited. But that might not have been the outcome. And the discrepancy alone, doesn't 
mean that the witness was lying, that his evidence was fabricated and without merit or that 
the third party was fraudulently complicit with such a fabrication.
I can't know what the outcome would have been had AXA further investigated the witness 
evidence. But a factual error doesn't automatically mean that the witness was lying. Memory 
isnt always reliable, and there could be numerous legitimate reasons why the witness made 
a clear error of fact. For example  and I am wandering into the realms of speculation here  
the witness only saw the accident from an obscure angle while making the delivery, or 
perhaps because he was sat in a van and only saw the accident from his mirrors. Anything 
like that might have skewed the witnesses understanding of how the accident occurred  but 
doesnt necessarily mean he was lying about what he observed of Mr C. So it could be that 
the witness has simply described the accident as he thinks he saw it and his memory pieced 
the evidence together incorrectly. But, we can't now know why he said what he did. 
Further Mr Cs implied that the third party was complicit with this fabricated witness 
evidence. But, while thats a possibility, on balance I think its a remote one. That's because, 
if the third party had persuaded an accomplice to prepare fabricated evidence, I would have 
expected that evidence to almost exactly match what the third partys own evidence said. 
That would reduce the likelihood that it would be challenged. I certainly wouldnt have 
expected to see such an obvious inconsistency with the facts as presented by the two 
drivers involved in the accident. So I think its unlikely that the third party had persuaded an 
accomplice to give such poor evidence in support of an attempt to make a fraudulent claim 
to have his car repaired.
But, as I've said above, the discrepancy in the witness evidence should have been 
something AXA investigated further. And I note it has now accepted that it should have 
looked into the 50/50 option again. So I think it wasnt fair that it didn't do that on receipt of 
the witness evidence. But I dont think Mr Cs in a worse position because of AXAs failure 
here.
Mr C seems to think that because of the discrepancy in the witness evidence the entirety of 
the third partys claim would be dismissed. But I find that extremely unlikely. As I've indicated 
above, from an independent perspective, I dont think theres any persuasive evidence that 
the third party himself was complicit in any fabrication of the witness evidence. And it's not in 
dispute that an accident genuinely happened. An accident that the third party was entitled to 
claim for, whatever the outcome of that claim. So, even if AXA had investigated the witness 
evidence further, I don't think it had any reasons to argue that the entire claim should be 
dismissed because of one inconsistency in an independent witness evidence. Ill add that Mr C has several times alluded to the ethics of AXA paying what he considers to 
be a fraudulent claim. But the fact that two drivers have a different view over who was to 
blame and exactly how an accident took place doesn't mean either is acting fraudulently. 
Thats simply called a dispute. Such disputes and arguments over how events unfolded are 
extremely common following motor accidents and they dont mean that one party is acting 
fraudulently. Instead, its usually simply a case that the two parties have differing views on 
how the accident happened. And, while being alive to the possibility, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for AXA  or any other insurer  to approach those disputes initially from the 
perspective that a fraud has almost certainly taken place. But, as I've already said, AXA 
should have done more to question the witness evidence. 
I think the best possible outcome, had AXA investigated further, that could have been 
achieved is that the witness evidence would have been withdrawn as unreliable. Had that 
happened then the situation would have returned to the position before the witness evidence 
was presented. That is, two drivers who were both reversing at the time, each blamed the 
other for an accident where neither had evidence to prove the other was at fault. It would 
return to one drivers word against the other. And, as described above, that most likely would 
have resulted in a 50/50 split liability outcome.
It might help if I explain that a 50/50 outcome  as opposed to 0/100 against him  wouldnt 
have been of any particular benefit to Mr C. Thats because, for insurance purposes, any 
claim that results in the policyholder being held in anyway liable, is considered the same as 
being 100% to blame. So a 50/50 decision would have the same effect on Mr Cs insurance 
history as the decision which held him 100% to blame did. 
It follows that, even if AXA had done more to investigate the witness evidence and defend 
the claim, as the likely outcome would be a 50/50 split liability settlement, the effect on Mr 
Cs insurance history would be the same. That is a fault claim against him (because he was 
50% liable for the loss) which would affect his no claims discount. In other words even if AXA 
had done everything it should have done, I dont think Mr C would have been in a better 
position. It follows that, while AXA should have handled things differently, I dont think thats 
had any material adverse impact on Mr C, beyond his frustration with it.
Im aware that Mr C is unhappy with AXAs complaint handling. But I can only repeat what 
our investigator has already clearly explained to him; that the act of handling a complaint 
itself is outside of our remit. So Im not going to comment on that here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct AXA to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman