DRN-2946676
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the charges shes been asked to pay to refurbish a car at the end of 
a finance agreement she had with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading 
as Alphera Financial Services. Shes also concerned about their decision to collect the car 
and not simply to reappraise it.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs B acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result 
our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that Mrs B says the second inspection was to be completed purely to 
reappraise the work that needed to be done on the car and should not have been a 
final collection. Im not persuaded that was most likely to have been the agreement. I 
say that because it would be highly unusual; thered already been an assessment of 
the damage and because I can see the letter sent by the business on 8 July 2020 
explained the collection process.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs B responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Thats meant to be applied to new cars and this was a 
used car. But it was only about 11 months old and I think its fair to suggest it would 
have been supplied to Mrs B in a good condition otherwise I think its likely she would 
have complained about it. So, I think BMWFS were fair to assess the car to that 
standard.
Ive considered the photographs of the twelve areas of damage that are provided in 
the inspection report completed at handover. The investigator has set out the 
standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with her 
assessment. Im persuaded, and for the same reasons, that all charges have been 
fairly levied except:
othe damage to the left-hand front wheel is not evidenced. Whilst the wheel is 
dirty any damage is unclear. BMWFS should therefore reduce the final 
invoice by £26.
oI cant see any damage to the front bumper in the image provided. BMWFS 
should therefore reduce the final invoice by a further £60.
othe image shows the left-hand rear lamp to be broken but BMWFS have not 
provided any evidence to justify their charge of £240.85. Our investigator has 
found alternative quotes that suggest a more reasonable charge would be 
half of that. Im therefore asking BMWFS to reduce the final invoice by a 
further £120.43.
oI dont think it would be fair for BMWFS to charge for two scratches on the 
same door so Im asking them to remove the charge of £114 for the scratch to 
the right-hand front door. 
oIn total Im asking BMWFS to reduce the charges by £320.43 but I dont think 
theres evidence that the costs should be reduced any more than that.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint in part. 
 
Putting things right
The initial bill was for £2,575.27 and BMWFS reduced that to £2,086.42 as they accepted 
the charges theyd made for refurbishment of the left-hand rear door and the rear bumper 
were overstated once the dealerships quote had been considered. I think they should 
reduce this bill by a further £320.43 which would make the final invoice £1,765.99.
Mrs B has expressed concerns that her credit file has been impacted by these issues. As Im 
asking BMWFS to reduce the charges as I dont think they were all reasonable, it wouldnt 
be fair to report any adverse data to the credit reference agencies. Mrs B was, after all, 
disputing a bill that was poorly evidenced. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
reduce the bill by a further £320.43 and present Mrs B with a final bill of £1,765.99;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman