DRN-3656901
The complaint
Ms A complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) handled 
a late payment.
What happened
Ms A has a credit card with Amex. In October 2021 Amex sent Ms A a credit card statement 
that said it would collect the outstanding balance in full via direct debit on 2 November 2021. 
The statement confirmed the due date for the payment was 13 November 2021. Amex says 
it collected the payment via direct debit but it was later returned to Ms As bank. Another 
attempt to collect the payment was unsuccessful. 
No follow up payment was received by the due date on 13 November 2021 and Ms A 
incurred two charges plus interest on the outstanding balance. Amex received a payment to 
clear the balance on 21 November 2021 and reversed one of its charges. Amex reported the 
payment as late to the credit reference agencies. Further interest was applied to the next 
months statement due to the way payments are collected and the due dates fall. 
On 22 November 2021 Ms A contacted Amex and gave details of why her payment wasnt 
made by the due date. Amex says Ms A advised shes switched accounts at her bank and 
missed the transfer required to cover its payment. Ms A asked Amex to waive the interest 
and charges applied but it declined. Amex says it had already taken that step in August 2021 
and wasnt willing to do so again. 
Ms A complained but Amex didnt agree it had made mistakes or treated her unfairly. Amex 
waived one of the fees and around £10 of interest as a gesture of goodwill. An investigator at 
this service looked at Ms As complaint and thought Amex had dealt with it fairly. They didnt 
ask Amex to take further action. Ms A asked to appeal and said Amex had failed to provide 
evidence to show it had reattempted the direct debit payment on 9 November 2021 and had 
misled her. As Miss A asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amex says its October 2021 statement advised it would collect the payment by direct debit 
on 2 November 2021. That left a margin to try and resolve any problems that arose. The first 
payment was returned unpaid due to insufficient funds. And Amex says it sent Ms A an email 
on 4 November 2021 to advise it would try and take the payment again on 9 November 
2021. Ms A says Amex has failed to show it carried out the second attempt. 
Ive looked at the available evidence. Amex has sent us excerpts from its systems and a 
technical explanation of what the information means. It shows the direct debit was initially 
attempted on 2 November 2021. And the direct debit task was subsequently marked as Not 
Good Satisfied, or unsuccessful, by the system when the second attempt failed on 
9 November 2021. Amex has explained that because of the way its systems work, this is the 
way it notes that a direct debit payment cycle, including both attempts, hasnt been 
completed. 
I understand Ms A wants more definitive evidence. But Im satisfied Amex has forwarded 
everything available. I also think its fair to say that its part of Amexs standard procedure to 
reattempt when a direct debit is returned unpaid. I think its most likely Amex followed its 
normal approach in this case. In my view, the information shows the direct debit attempts 
were made as Amex says. 
Amex has gone on to report the late payment on Ms As credit file and says its obliged to 
record accurate information. I can only tell Amex to amend the information reported if its 
made a mistake or acted unfairly. But as Ms As payment wasnt made by the due date, 
Amex is accurately reflecting that on her credit file. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms A but as Im satisfied Amex dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman