DRN-3570553
The complaint
Miss W complains that esure Insurance Limited declined her claim following the theft of her
car and avoided (treated it as if it never existed) her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss Ws car was stolen. She says in September she added her partner, Mr
J, onto her policy as a named driver. When she made a claim to esure it declined her claim
and said it was avoiding the policy. It told her this was because she hadnt told it about a
MS90 motoring conviction Mr J had received in 2017.
Miss W says Mr J wasnt aware of the conviction. She says this would no longer be on his
licence at the time he was added as a named driver to her policy. She also says he had
never driven her car by the time it was stolen. Miss W says she doesnt think a letter
informing of the MS90 conviction was sent. But if it was it may have been sent to Mr Js
fathers house, after Mr J had moved to a different address.
Miss W says she is in £7,000 worth of debt because of the decline decision. This has caused
her a great deal of distress and anxiety resulting in time off work. She asks that esure at
least contributes towards her loss.
esure says that had it been aware of Mr Js motoring conviction it wouldnt have been able to
offer Miss W renewal terms. It says the policy has been avoided back to the date Mr J was
added as a named driver in September 2021. And Miss W will need to declare this
avoidance to future insurers.
Miss W thought this was unfair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt uphold her complaint. He says Miss W was asked whether Mr J had any motoring
convictions, and she had confirmed he didnt. He says this was a careless qualifying
misrepresentation and esure had acted fairly by declining the claim, avoiding the policy, and
refunding premiums back to Miss W.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Miss 
Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
esure thinks Miss W made a qualifying misrepresentation when she failed to disclose Mr Js
MS90 motoring conviction. Ive listened the call when Miss W added Mr J to her policy.
esures agent very clearly asks if Mr J had any motoring convictions from the past five years.
Miss W says, no.
Its not in dispute that Mr J had a MS90 motoring conviction recorded against him in 2017.
This shouldve been declared when Miss W was asked if Mr J had any motoring convictions
in the past five years.
I acknowledge Miss Ws comments that neither she nor Mr J were aware of this conviction 
and the reasons given for why they were unaware. But I dont think this is esures fault.
Ultimately it was for Miss W to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, which
in this case, I dont think she did.
esure has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Miss W hadnt made
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have provided cover at all. This means that I am satisfied
Miss Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I think esures decision that this was a careless misrepresentation is reasonable. I think this
is fair because of the circumstances described by Miss W as to why she and Mr J were
unaware of the conviction.
But Im not satisfied esure was entitled to avoid Miss Ws policy in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA says that for a careless misrepresentation an insurer can only avoid the policy if it
wouldnt have provided insurance on any terms. But esure hasnt shown that it wouldnt have
offered cover to Miss W without Mr J on the policy. It was Mr J who had the motoring
conviction that meant esure wouldnt provide cover. I think esure would have offered cover to
Miss W without Mr J as a named driver. She was considered an acceptable risk prior to Mr J
being added. I havent seen any information that shows this position changed.
So, I think esure should treat Miss Ws policy as if it had been provided without Mr J as anamed driver. Records of the avoidance will affect Miss Ws future cover. So, I think its fair
that esure should remove all records of the avoidance and provide Miss W with a letter
saying that the policy was avoided in error.
Miss W says the avoidance has caused her considerable distress and anxiety, resulting in
time off work. And it took esure nearly two months from the loss being reported to confirm
the avoidance decision. In the circumstances I think its reasonable for esure to pay Miss W
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think not
allowing esure to rely on it to avoid Miss Ws policy represents a fair and reasonable
outcome in this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
esure responded to say it initially accepted Miss Ws testimony that she hadnt been aware 
of her partners motoring conviction and thought the non-disclosure of this information was 
careless. It says it now feels that the non-disclosure falls under the reckless category. It says 
Miss W benefitted by the careless categorisation when the policy was avoided by the refund 
of premiums. But it says the true definition of the misrepresentation should be within the 
reckless category.  
esure refers to an email from Miss W where she says she works in insurance and knows the 
importance of answering questions correctly. It says she was also made aware of the need 
to disclose any motoring convictions from the past five years. Knowing this, esure says Miss 
W should have ensured the information she gave was correct. In not doing so she behaved 
recklessly. 
esure says it doesnt think its responsible to make a risk acceptable in the event of a 
misrepresentation being discovered. It doesnt think that if a misrepresentation relates to a 
named driver, then it should simply remove that driver. It says this isnt fair and negates the 
need to ask questions for additional drivers, as they can simply be removed in the event of 
an avoidance. esure thinks this will lead to more insurers categorising misrepresentations as 
reckless, which will impact on the customer. 
esure also queries what evidence Miss W has supplied to substantiate her claim that she 
didnt know about the motoring offence. 
Miss W didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When esure declined Miss Ws claim for the theft of her car because she didnt disclose her 
partners motoring conviction, it said this was a careless misrepresentation. Under CIDRA an 
insurer can only avoid the policy for a careless misrepresentation if it can show it wouldnt 
have provided cover on any terms. In my provisional decision I said I didnt think esure has 
shown this to be the case. This is because it was prepared to insure Miss W prior to her 
partner being added to the policy. So, its clear she had presented an acceptable risk to its 
underwriters immediately prior to adding the named driver.
esure says it now wants to change the category of misrepresentation from careless to reckless. I dont think it has provided clear information to support why this is justified. I 
understand this change is an attempt to allow the avoidance decision to be maintained under 
the CIDRA rules. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss Ws testimony that she wasnt aware of the motoring 
conviction at the time she added her partner to her policy. Miss W is very clear that neither 
she nor her partner were aware of this because no notification of the offence had been 
received. Miss W explains that she works in the insurance industry and is aware of the need 
to answer questions accurately. I think its unlikely she will have provided inaccurate 
information if it was known her partner had a motoring conviction, given her understanding of 
the potential consequences.
I acknowledge esures concern about my provisional decision. Specifically, that if a 
misrepresentation is for a named driver, it should simply remove that driver from cover. It 
says this negates the need to ask questions about additional drivers, as they can simply be 
removed in the event of an avoidance. 
My provisional decision considered the circumstances of this specific complaint. I think 
esures decision that Miss W had made a careless misrepresentation was fair. I havent seen 
information that shows she knew the information she provided was untrue or misleading. Or 
that she didnt care whether it was accurate and acted recklessly. So, I dont think esure has 
shown that there is reason to change the categorisation from careless to reckless. The 
CIDRA rules determine how an insurer should categorise a misrepresentation. Although I 
acknowledge esures comments I dont think its shown that my decision should change. 
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that I should change my decision. So, my 
provisional decision now becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold Miss Ws 
complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:
- treat Miss Ws policy as if Mr J hadnt been added as a named driver;
- remove all records of Miss Ws policy avoidance and provide her with a letter explaining the
policy was avoided in error; and
- pay Miss W £200 compensation for the trouble and upset the declined claim and avoided
policy has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman