The complaint
Mr D is complaining about the value esure Insurance Limited (esure) has put on his car after 
he made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D's car was stolen so he contacted esure to claim on his car insurance policy. esure said 
that it would settle the claim by paying him the car's market value, less his excess of £1,000. 
esure initially valued his car at around £3,800. Mr D disgareed with this as he thought the 
car's market value was around £8,500, which is what he says he insured it for. 
esure reviewed the value it had offered and increased the offer to £4,585. And it paid him 
£3,585 after deducting the excess. It said it had valued the car using the industry's main 
trade guide valuation tools, which it said was standard industry practice. Mr D says that he 
can't replace his car for the amount esure had offered and maintained that the car's value 
should be £8,500. He provided adverts which he says supports this. He thinks esure has 
offered him a trade value, which he thinks is unfair because he's not a motor trader.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said that it was standard practice to use the 
trade guides to value the car. And he thought esure's valuation was fair taking into account 
the valuations they gave. He acknowledged the adverts Mr D gave. But he said these were 
for cars with a lot less mileage. And he said that Mr D's car had a high mileage which he 
thought would have a significant impact on the car's value.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator's opinion. He said his car was in an outstanding 
condition before it was stolen. He said it was a very rare model with only 286 models left in 
the country. He also highlighted that it was a turbo tiptronic model. He doesn't think the high 
mileage would have such a significant impact on the valuation.
Mr D said he took out insurance to cover him for the loss of his car. And he expects to be 
able to replace it on a like-for-like basis. And he maintains that he can't do so with the 
amount esure has given him. He said he told esure that he valued the car at £8,500 and he 
didn't expect to received less than half that amount. And he said he would have taken out an 
agreed value policy had he known this is how much he would have received.
Mr D doesn't think that the trade guides give a fair reflection of the amount similar cars are 
selling for on the market. 
As Mr D didn't agree with the investigator, the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
DRN-1304298 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ds policy, esure has to pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess.
esure has valued Mr Ds car at £4,585. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry trade valuation guides. Mr D doesnt think this valuation is fair because he thinks 
esure has offered him the car's trade value. And he says he doesn't have access to a trade 
value as he's not a motor trader. He says he can't replace the car for the amount it's offered 
him.
Its standard practice for the industry to use trade guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides give are 
based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. So the guides do give an indication of a car's market value, not trade value.
Ive looked at the esure's valuation of Mr Ds car and I think it's fair. Ive looked at the guides 
and they give a range of between £4,220 and £4,770. So I think esures valuation of 
£4,585 for the car was in line with the trade guides' valuations. 
I note Mr D's comments that he can't replace his car for the amount esure's offered. And I 
don't dispute that there are limited options on the market available, due to the rare nature of 
his car. I've also looked at the adverts that Mr D has provided, but I don't think these are a 
fair reflection of the car's market value. Many of them are for new models and they all have 
significantly less mileage.
Mr D's car had travelled over 172,000 miles at the time it was stolen. And this would have 
had a significant impact on the car's market value. So I don't think the adverts Mr D has 
provided are an accurate reflection of his car's market value.
So, while I appreciate Mr D's comments in this matter, I'm not persuade that I've seen 
enough to say that the trade guides have given an unfair valuation of Mr D's car.
I've also taken into account Mr D's comment that he wouldn't have taken out this insurance 
policy had he known how much esure would pay him in the event of a claim. esure isn't 
required to highlight each and every term of the insurance policy. It was required to highlight 
significant and unusual terms when Mr D took out the policy. All market value insurance 
policies contain a similar term to the term in Mr D's policy. And I don't think it would be 
considered a significant term. So I don't think esure was required to highlight it to him.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman