DRN-2593461
The complaint
Miss H and Mr B, as representatives of the estate of Mrs H, complain about advice given by
Brewin Dolphin Limited concerning the premiums for two whole of life policies.
What happened
The policies were started in 2000 to mitigate an inheritance liability associated with Mrs Hs
estate. They were held in trust, of which Mrs H and a Ms B were trustees. As of 2015 the
policies provided sums assured of around £450,000 (Policy 1) and £1.2million (Policy 2)
respectively.
The complaint stems from a performance review of Policy 2 in 2016. The policy provider
wrote to the trustees and explained that its current annual premium of just under £36,000
would no longer support the sum assured. Three options were provided:
Keep the premiums as they were and maintain the same sum assured. It was
predicted (future investment performance, etc, allowing) that doing so would support
the sum assured until Mrs H reached age 91, approximately 13 years.
Increase the premiums to just over £70,000  which was predicted to maintain the
existing sum assured throughout Mrs Hs life.
Keep the premiums as they were but reduce the sum assured to just over £690,000 
which was predicted to maintain the reduced sum assured throughout Mrs Hs life.
The policy provider recommended that the trustees contact a financial adviser for advice.
Ms B and a Mr A (who by 2016 had power of attorney for Mrs H, so was acting as joint
trustee with Ms B) sought advice from Brewin Dolphin. Brewin Dolphins view was that option
2  increasing the premiums  was most suitable in the circumstances. Ms B and Mr A
agreed to that and the policy proceeded with the increased premium.
Mrs H sadly passed away in January 2018. As a representative of her estate, Ms H
complained to Brewin Dolphin that Mrs Hs circumstances hadnt been properly considered
in reaching the conclusion that option 2 was most suitable.
She said that Mrs H had been in very poor health in 2016 and Brewin Dolphin shouldve
considered that, given Mrs Hs limited life expectancy, option 1 shouldve instead been
recommended, as it wouldve maintained the sum assured for up to 13 years but avoided the
need to increase the premiums. She also highlighted that an additional IHT liability had been
unnecessarily created by option 2, as the additional premiums had fallen outside the
exemption for normal expenditure out of income.
Brewin Dolphin didnt uphold the complaint as it felt its advice to select option 2 had been
reasonable. Ms H and Mr B referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator
reached the same conclusion. As Miss H and Mr B didnt accept this, the matters been
referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said, in part:
When advice was sought from Brewin Dolphin about what option should be selected, the
matter was referred to its Financial Planning team. The outcome was an email to the
trustees from their contact at Brewin Dolphin saying, in part:
we are agreed in suggesting that the trustees opt to increase the premiums to maintain
the level of life cover at over £1.1 million This is principally due to (Mrs Hs) deterioration in
health. This will mean that her premium will rise from £35,711.42 this year to £71,169.91
next year. If the trustees opted to maintain the current premium then the amount of cover
would drop by over £450,000 to £690,579. Given her circumstances such reduced cover
would only increase the inevitable Inheritance Tax liability. Upon opting to pay the increased
premium (Mrs H) would only be worse off if she survived for another 13 years from
September 2017.
I agree that the content of this email suggests there may have been a misunderstanding of
the options. It wasnt the case that maintaining the current premium would definitely result in
a reduction in the level of cover  that was only true of option 3. The policy provider, in
setting out the options, had not said that the sum assured would be reduced under option 1.
Rather, as noted, it had explained that leaving things as they were would reduce the policys
sustainability from life to 13 years  age 91.
Its also of note that Brewin Dolphin mentioned Mrs Hs deteriorating health but didnt relate it
to option 1. And the reference to increasing the IHT liability seems odd, as reducing the
cover provided by the policy wouldnt have, in itself, increased the liability. Rather, it would
simply have meant that more of the money needed to pay the eventual liability wouldve
needed to be found from another source.
So, given that selecting option 1 wouldnt have resulted in a reduction in the sum assured, it
meant that it was, as Miss H has suggested, a feasible option to be properly considered. But,
given the ambiguity of the email, I cant be sure that Brewin Dolphin did properly consider it
and therefore ensure that the trustees were fully informed of all the pro and cons of the three
options.
But, all that said, if the trustees had been fully informed, would the outcome have been any
different? Miss H has said that in the circumstances the only suitable advice wouldve been
to select option 1. Shes said this because Mrs Hs unfortunate poor health meant that her
life expectancy was limited, so sustaining the policy for up to 13 years without the need to
increase the premiums would have most likely have been sufficient.
I agree that this is something that shouldve been more clearly put to the trustees. But Im
not sure that if it had been and the full ramifications of selecting option 1 explained, then it
would necessarily have been the option they selected. I say this because, although based on
the assumptions used in carrying out the review there was a proposed 13-year sustainability,
there were also factors that couldve negatively impacted and reduced that proposed period.
Poor future investment returns and/or increased costs of life cover couldve quite swiftly
conspired to reduce that thirteen-year estimate. I note what Miss H says about the fund
values supporting the cost of cover, but at the point of the review being carried out, Policy 2
had a value of just under £170,000. While this might appear quite a lot on the face of it, it
should be remembered that the review had shown that to maintain life-long sustainability, as
opposed to 13 years, the annual premiums would need to increase by in excess of £35,000.
So, it can be seen how the fund value could quite quickly have been used up, particularly if
investment performance had fallen.
In effect, selecting option 1 wouldve been something of a gamble. I understand thatMrs H was in very poor health and sadly not expected to live too much longer. But had she
done so, the trustees couldve found themselves having placed the policy in something of a
precarious position. And given the amount of cover it provided and its importance in the
overall objective of mitigating a very large IHT liability, Im not sure they wouldve been
entirely comfortable in taking that decision.
Mrs H has suggested that if option 1 had been selected and the policy had continued after
2018 but ongoing investment returns had suddenly reduced, then action couldve been taken
to make changes to the policy to effectively set it back on track. But Im not sure how realistic
an option this wouldve been.
Its certainly the case that annual statements wouldve shown what was happening with the
policys value and the policy provider wouldve contacted the trustees in advance of the
policy lapsing, so there wouldve been some warning given. But its not clear exactly what
action couldve then been taken to address the issues. Having chosen not to pay the
increased premiums, the policy would at very least have required a significant cash injection
(assuming that was allowed under the terms) and taking the required money needed to
provide this from Mrs Hs other investments at short notice couldve had very costly tax
implications that couldve cancelled out any benefits achieved by not increasing the
premiums in 2016.
Further, I also think its also relevant to note that the other policy, Policy 1, had been
reviewed a year earlier, in 2015. Although that policy provided a lower level of cover, the
figures involved were still significant. As a result of the review, the same options were
offered to the trustees as those later given for Policy 2 in 2016: maintain the premiums and
sum assured at the same levels (£11,000 and £405,000 respectively) with a policy
sustainability of 13 years, double the premium to maintain the sum assured for life, or accept
a reduction in the sum assured.
In 2015 Mrs Hs power of attorney had not yet been invoked, so she (rather than Mr A) and
Mrs B took the decision as joint trustees. It appears that Mrs Hs health was poor at that
point too, yet that decision taken by the trustees was to increase the premiums.
So, given that a similar decision was made a year earlier for Policy 1  jointly with Mrs H
herself  coupled with the fact that choosing option 1 created potential risks for the policys
sustainability, I think, on balance, that if Mrs B and Mr A had been fully informed about the
options in 2016, they would more likely than not still have chosen option 2. I think this
wouldve been so even bearing in mind the additional IHT liability created by the payment of
the additional premiums outside of normal expenditure.
In summary, while I think the provision of information by Brewin Dolphin was poor, I dont
think it affected the overall outcome, so there was no financial loss as result.
In such circumstances I might, despite the absence of a loss, make an award for the trouble
and upset caused by the poor provision of information. But Im unable to do so when the
complaint has been brought by an estate.
Brewin Dolphin didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Miss H responded to say she had nothing further to add other than to comment that she was 
far from satisfied and felt the matter hadnt been understood properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision. I note Miss Hs comments; however, Im satisfied Ive understood the issues 
properly and, in doing so, have reached a fair and reasonable conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman