DRN-3318238
The complaint
Mrs W complains Nationwide Building Society agreed to lend her money on a credit card 
when this was irresponsible and unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2015, Mrs W visited a Nationwide branch to open a second current account. She 
wanted to do this to help her manage her finances. During the meeting, Mrs W was offered 
an overdraft facility and a credit card with a limit of £7,000. 
This complaint concerns only Nationwides decision to give Mrs W the credit card. 
Mrs W suffers from a number of mental health conditions. 
 
In December 2019, Mrs W complained to Nationwide that they had been irresponsible by 
offering her the credit card because she was vulnerable and couldnt afford to repay the 
debt. 
Nationwide responded to Mrs Ws complaint. They said, at the time, their checks showed 
Mrs W was eligible for the credit card but it was her decision whether to accept it. As Mrs W 
had accepted the credit card and its terms and conditions, they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
Our Investigator considered Mrs Ws concerns. He said, in summary, he didnt think 
Nationwide had carried out sufficient checks during Mrs Ws application for the credit card 
and so he felt they agreed to provide the credit when it was unaffordable. To put things right, 
he recommended Nationwide:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mrs Ws account. 
Should check for periods when Mrs Ws payments would have been enough to clear 
the balance. And if so, they should pay 8% interest on any periods where she 
wouldve been in credit. 
Remove any adverse information about the credit card account from Mrs Ws credit 
file.
Pay Mrs W £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shed been caused 
by Nationwides decision to agree the credit card when it wasnt affordable. 
Nationwide didnt agree with the Investigators view. They said they had based their decision 
to lend on what Mrs W had told them in her application and the credit check they did at the 
time. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the Investigators view. She wanted the outstanding balance on the 
credit card to be written off. Our Investigator asked Nationwide if theyd be willing to do this 
as a gesture of goodwill, but they said no.
As both parties didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision setting out what I thought. Ive set out those findings again below and they form part 
of this decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide had an obligation, when considering whether to offer Mrs W the credit card, to 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure she could afford to repay the 
borrowing sustainably.
Proportionate checks can vary  but generally wed expect a business to satisfy themselves 
that the customer can afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way.  So first I need to 
consider if Nationwide completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Mrs W would be able to repay what she borrowed on the credit card in a sustainable 
way. 
The application form completed at the time shows Mrs W was noted as being employed, with 
a yearly salary of about £35,000. But the application also notes Mrs Ws occupation as 
Home Maker. I find this a clear contradiction in the application data and one Nationwide 
should have noted at the time.
 
Mrs Ws actual circumstances at the time of the application were; she was not working, was 
in receipt of benefits and taking care of her two children. Mrs W had been discharged from 
bankruptcy in 2011 and has told us, because of that, she was very reluctant to take out 
further credit and that wasnt purpose of her visit to Nationwide in July 2015.
Mrs W already banked with Nationwide  so they wouldve been able to see, with relative 
ease, that Mrs W wasnt receiving a salary at all. And if they had, I think this wouldve 
prompted them to ask further questions about this since the application indicated she was. 
Nationwide said they based their decision on the information in the application and a credit 
check. As Ive just explained, the information on the application itself was contradictory and 
Mrs W already banked with Nationwide, so they could and should have taken steps to verify 
the income stated on the application. But they didnt. So, I find Nationwide failed to conduct 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Nationwide says the employment information was provided by Mrs W. And that, its unlikely 
to have been entered in error by their employee. Mrs W says she told Nationwide at the time 
her income was made up of mainly health related benefits for her children  and that she 
had previously been declared bankrupt. While its not clear how the wrong information ended 
up on the application, I dont think this matters because Ive found Nationwide shouldve 
carried out further checks and if they had, they wouldve discovered the information was 
incorrect. 
Having decided Nationwide didnt conduct proper checks, I must consider, if Nationwide had 
done proportionate checks, would that have shown Mrs W couldnt afford the credit card.
  
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws credit file. This shows she had one other small loan which had 
been taken in April 2015, about three months prior to her visit to Nationwide. And although 
the information about Mrs Ws bankruptcy has dropped off her credit file now, in 2015 it 
wouldve been there for Nationwide to see. Mrs W is particularly concerned that Nationwide 
agreed to lend to her despite her having been discharged from bankruptcy. But as our Investigator explained, although wed expect a lender to take this into account  it wouldnt 
necessarily mean Nationwide shouldnt have lent to her. 
Ive got statements for Mrs Ws current account with Nationwide for the three months prior to 
the application for the credit card. These show, while always in credit, Mrs Ws balance 
drops as low as £154.67 in May 2015 and £197.25 in June 2015.
 
Nationwide says they based their decision that Mrs W could afford to repay the borrowing on 
an assumption the £7,000 would be drawn down immediately and repaid over two years at 
£292 per month. They say based on the salary in the application of about £35,000 this 
wouldve been affordable. But as Mrs W wasnt earning £35,000, I dont think this calculation 
is relevant. And her statements show her current account balance regularly dipping below 
£292 in the months leading up to application. I must also consider that, on the same day this 
credit card was approved for Mrs W, Nationwide also agreed an overdraft for her - with a 
limit of £2,250. 
Based on what Ive seen, it seems unlikely Mrs W could have afforded to sustainably repay 
the debt based on her actual circumstances and on top of the overdraft Nationwide had 
agreed at the same time.
So I find Nationwides decision to give Mrs W a credit card with a limit of £7,000 unaffordable 
in the circumstances. 
Mrs W feels the amount of the credit isnt relevant to the outcome of the complaint and that if 
Nationwide hasnt followed the correct process when they granted her lending, then 
everything she borrowed should be written off. But I dont think that would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of her case, because she has had the benefit of the 
money she borrowed.
 
As Mrs W knows, our Investigator asked Nationwide if theyd be willing to write off the debt. 
They said theyd be willing to consider a potential write off if Mrs W provided updated details 
of her current financial circumstances, but Mrs W didnt want to do that. Thats her choice, 
but I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to ask her for this information in order to 
assess whether they now want to write off the debt. 
Our investigator recommended any adverse information about Mrs Ws credit card account 
should be removed from her credit file. And that is what wed normally expect a lender to do 
when were upholding a case on the basis of irresponsible or unaffordable lending. However, 
I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable thing to do here given the basis 
of Mrs Ws complaint is that she is vulnerable and struggles with managing her finances.
 
This is, in part, a measure to protect Mrs W and also potential future lenders  who will be 
able to see how shes managed the debts shes taken on. So I think its fair that Nationwide 
update Mrs Ws credit file if, having completed the steps below, it results in times when 
adverse information wouldnt have been recorded  but I dont plan to require them to 
remove all adverse information about the account.
Finally, our Investigator recommended Nationwide pay Mrs W £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their decision to grant the credit card. Mrs W has told 
us that shes vulnerable and struggles with managing her finances and that the situation with 
Nationwide has worsened the symptoms of her mental health conditions. Because of this, I 
think a payment of £200 in recognition of the impact Nationwides error had on Mrs W is fair. Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W says she doesnt think my recommendations about what Nationwide should do in this 
case go far enough to put this right. In summary, she said this was because:
Although I had said she had benefitted from the money shed borrowed  Mrs W 
doesnt agree that she did. She said the lending had only been a detriment to her. 
Mrs W maintains that her vulnerability means the credit card shouldnt have been 
agreed and because of that, the debt should now be written off. 
Mrs W felt that we should tell Nationwide to write off the debt because we had 
ordered another financial business in another case to do so, in circumstances which 
Mrs W felt were similar to hers. 
Nationwide responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs W might not feel that she benefitted from the money borrowed on the 
credit card. But I still feel she did. By this I mean Mrs W spent some money on the credit 
card on goods and services. And its this shes had the benefit of  rather than lending itself 
being a direct benefit to her. I agree that the lending decision itself has caused her detriment 
and that she was vulnerable and this is reflected in my decision to require Nationwide to 
refund all interest and charges on Mrs Ws credit card account and pay Mrs W 
compensation. But I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
to require Nationwide to write off the money Mrs W spent on the credit card. 
I set out that I intended to increase the compensation Nationwide should pay Mrs W in 
recognition of the impact the lending decision had on her. Ive reconsidered, in light of 
Mrs Ws comments whether £200 is fair and reasonable. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
amount fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mrs W has been caused as a result of 
decision to lend to her along with the other steps Im requiring Nationwide to take.  
Mrs W also felt that, based on another Ombudsmans decision in another case, her debt 
should be written off as we had directed the financial business to do so there. We deal with 
individual cases on their own merits so while Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments Im 
satisfied for the reasons Ive already explained what Im requiring Nationwide to do is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case.
 
Finally, Mrs W made the point that she didnt intend to take out credit. I accept that wasnt 
the purpose of Mrs Ws visit to the branch on the day this credit card was taken. But, 
ultimately she did agree to take the credit card and so I dont think this makes a difference to 
the outcome of her complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund interest and charges applied to Mrs Ws account. Any refund should be 
applied to reduce Mrs Ws outstanding balance. 
Check for any periods when Mrs Ws payment would have been enough to clear her 
balance, and if this is the case, they should pay 8% simple interest to Mrs W on any periods she would have been in credit up until the date she would have owed money 
on her credit card again.
Having completed this calculation, if there are times Nationwide wouldnt have 
recorded adverse information on Mrs Ws credit file, then they should make 
arrangements to update this with the credit reference agencies to show no adverse 
data.
Pay Mrs W £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and require Nationwide 
Building Society to take the steps set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman