DRN-1762200
 
The complaint
Mrs N says that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has not applied payments to 
her credit card correctly.
What happened
Between July 2017 and July 2019, Mrs N would pay off her credit card in cash at M&S 
stores.
In August 2019, Mrs N noticed that her receipts said been giving the cashiers more money 
than was needed to pay off her balance. She thought this meant shed overpaid her credit 
card, but that wasnt reflected on her statements.
She queried this with M&S, who explained that the receipts said shed been given the extra 
money back in change. But then Mrs N said she didnt remember receiving change. She said 
her friend sometimes came with her, and her friend also couldnt remember Mrs N getting 
change. So Mrs N says M&S owes her £118.97, which is the total of her overpayments over 
the years.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the payments into Mrs Ns credit card account matched her receipts. M&S didnt still have 
the till records or CCTV footage, but she noted that Mrs N had seen various staff in different 
departments in different stores. She thought it was unlikely theyd all forgotten to give Mrs N 
her change, and that Mrs N had never noticed at the time. She felt it was more likely that 
Mrs N simply no longer remembered getting her change. 
Mrs N didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I completely understand why Mrs N would like to see till records and camera footage from 
her transactions. But those are only held onto for a limited time, so theyre not available 
anymore. Indeed, under data protection rules, M&S were required to delete such data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Unfortunately, Mrs Ns complaint has come too late for there to 
still be any substantial record of what happened at the various tills.
The only record we do have of the payments  the receipts  say that Mrs N was given her 
change, and that the correct amounts were applied to her account.
Thinking about whats most likely, its both unlikely and implausible for the same mistake to 
have been made by so many staff members, across multiple departments, at different 
stores, over a period of years, without anyone noticing anything was wrong. Its similarly 
implausible and unlikely that they all couldve worked together to deliberately withhold a 
customers change  and Ive not seen any evidence of fraud here. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with M&Ss payment process from the time, either.
Further, if Mrs N were either expecting her statements to show overpayments, or if she were 
expecting to be given change in the stores, I think its most likely she wouldve noticed 
something was wrong much sooner. After all, this happened over the course of two years. 
On the other hand, memories can and do fade over time. Getting change in a store is not 
often a memorable event, and some of these payments were over two years old by the time 
they were reported. So while I appreciate that Mrs N has given us her best recollections, its 
both likely and understandable if she was given change but now doesnt remember.
In summary, I dont have any evidence which shows that M&S did anything wrong, it doesnt 
seem likely that there was any error here, and the only record of the transactions says that 
they were carried out properly. So while I do appreciate Mrs Ns point of view, I cannot fairly 
conclude that M&S got things wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman