DRN-3265135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Enigma Wealth Management Limited didnt provide the 
service it was contracted to do. Theyre also unhappy about the way Enigma dealt with 
their personal data requests.
Mr R is representing both himself and Mrs R. All references to Mr and Mrs R will 
include information provided on behalf of Mrs R.
What happened
From 13 April 2016 up until January 2020, Mr and Mrs R had an agreement with Enigma 
for it to provide financial advisory services. Up until July 2019 they had one particular 
financial adviser (the previous adviser). The timeline below is relevant to this complaint:
23 November 2018  the previous adviser held a review meeting with Mr and 
Mrs R;
19 December 2018  review letter issued to Mr and Mrs R by the previous 
adviser. The previous adviser agreed another review would be held in May 
2019 and said that: For this on-going service we charge 0.5% per annum of 
the value of your investments, which based on the current value of this means 
you will pay approximately £210.11 per month.
25 April 2019  Mr R requested a withdrawal from his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). This was paid to him in May 2019;
22 July 2019  Enigma told clients including Mr and Mrs R that the previous 
adviser had left the business and will be replaced by another adviser (the new 
adviser);
October 2019  Mr R makes a £10,000 withdrawal from his SIPP without using 
the services of Enigma;
6 December 2019  Mr and Mrs R sign a new contract with the previous 
advisers new firm;
17 December 2019  Enigma was told by two investment providers that it 
(Enigma) had been removed as Mr and Mrs Rs advisers;
15 January 2020  Mr and Mrs R notified Enigma they were leaving as its 
clients after appointing a new financial adviser.
The letter dated 22 July 2019, was sent by their new adviser who said: We are in the 
process of arranging meetings to introduce myself, however in the meantime if further 
advice is needed please contact me on the contact number below. The new adviser went 
on to say: I feel it is prudent that I inform you that [the previous adviser] was suspended 
and under investigation for potential disciplinary allegations on his resignation.
In early 2020, Mr and Mrs R complained to Enigma. They wanted a refund of fees paid for 
May to December 2019, because they considered Enigma had been in breach of contract 
due to it not carrying out reviews in 2019. They later said they wanted a refund for 2018 
and 2019 as they hadnt received the service theyd been paying for since 2016. Mr and 
Mrs R also complained about Enigma refusing to delete all of their personal data from its 
files. And they didnt think Enigma had properly complied with a subject access request 
(SAR).
Enigma rejected Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It acknowledged that it was behind in arranging 
some meetings. But it said work on client files wasnt just limited to review meetings. 
Enigma noted the previous adviser had been suspended by the business (Enigma), so it 
needed to review all relevant client files to ensure no one had been disadvantaged. Enigma 
also said that itd reviewed a withdrawal request made by Mr R from his SIPP in May 2019. 
In terms of the data protection issues, Enigma said this had been handled in line with its 
regulatory and statutory duties.
Our investigator considered that Enigma had provided services to Mr and Mrs R in 2019. 
So, she didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to refund the ongoing charges fee. And 
she noted the right of erasure wasnt an absolute right and she didnt think Enigma had 
acted unreasonably given its regulatory duties around record keeping.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They considered certain information submitted by Enigma 
had been fabricated. And they maintained that Enigma had breached the contract so 
they shouldnt be liable to pay its fees. So, the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain why, I think its important 
for me to note I very much recognise Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling about this matter. 
They have provided detailed submissions to support their complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that they wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
Im also mindful this complaint arises with the context of Mr and Mrs Rs previous adviser 
leaving Enigma. And that this adviser has been in dispute with Enigma. I know Mr and 
Mrs R have said the previous adviser has provided commentary on what he says 
happened, but Im mindful this evidence cannot be seen as completely objective due to the 
circumstances under which he left Enigma. With that said, Ive looked at all the evidence in 
this case to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
In the letter of engagement (the contract) signed by Mr and Mrs R in April 2016, 
Enigma were required, amongst other things, to provide two review meetings a year. 
Enigma has said it believed the meeting which had been set for 28 June 2019, had gone 
ahead. But I think, on all the evidence, that this wasnt the case.
Nonetheless, it should be borne in mind that this services role isnt to punish businesses 
for their mistakes. We aim to put customers back in the position they would be in if an error 
hadnt occurred. And our awards are based on a fair and reasonable basis. So, I need to 
consider what the overall impact of not having these two reviews has been in respect of Mr 
and Mrs Rs investments.
I can see the last written review was carried out and sent to Mr and Mrs R in December 
2018 by the previous adviser. This set out everything you would expect a review to contain 
such as the suitability of the current arrangements. This review didnt propose any changes 
with the adviser noting that: Overall the investment and withdrawal strategy has proved 
robust and it is retaining its sustainability to provide ongoing income to provide you both with a comfortable income to achieve their retirement objectives. It went on to say that Mr 
and Mrs R had agreed they didnt require any changes to be made to their investments.
The next meeting was due to be held in May 2019 but from the internal emails Ive seen 
this seems to have been changed to 28 June 2019. Either way, Im satisfied this meeting 
didnt go ahead.
I can see, however, that Mr R contacted Enigma on 25 April 2019, requesting a withdrawal 
of £8,000 from his SIPP account. So, I think its likely that the previous adviser wouldve 
had to make some type of an assessment around this payment. This is evident from a draft 
letter dated 5 July 2019 (the draft letter) which refers to this withdrawal and sets out the 
valuation of the SIPP investments as of 25 April 2019. The letter says that:
Given your [Mr Rs] instructions, I have not considered any of your 
personal details other than the most favourable tax position based on 
your [Mr Rs] circumstances. And that: It is also my advice to withdraw 
this proportionally from each fund held within th (sic) investment so it 
does not affect the asset allocation we previously agreed.
The draft letter is unsigned with the name of the previous adviser at the end. Mr R says the 
previous adviser says the draft letter is fraudulent. But, I can see the previous adviser did 
correspond during this period with Mr R about this payment. Further, there are various 
internal emails with his colleague who was liaising directly with the SIPP provider. So, 
whilst Ive taken on board what the previous adviser has said via Mr and Mrs R, I think the 
evidence does support that Enigma did make the arrangements for this payment and I 
think its likely that this wouldve involved some type of assessment.
Even if I were to accept a review of Mr Rs SIPP arrangements wasnt carried out in April 
or May 2019, I can see that both Mr and Mrs Rs files were reviewed as part of a 
regulatory requirement to do so. Enigma was required to review all of its clients files that 
were former clients of the previous adviser. This would have included Mr and Mrs Rs 
investments. The review carried out by the new adviser included obtaining valuations and 
checking that all transactions such as withdrawals had been carried out correctly.
Mr and Mrs R says even if reviews were carried out behind the scenes, this could not have 
been done correctly as the new adviser didnt know what their requirements were. 
However, the review letter from December 2018 set out these objectives. Mr and Mrs R 
havent said that these changed since that time.
As the new adviser noted in his response to Mr and Mrs R, their respective investments 
had continued to perform very well. He has also said that even if the face-to-face review 
had happened, he would not have made any recommendations to change anything as the 
investments continued to make gains. I note this was the same outcome as the December 
2018 review, where similar reasons were given for not making any changes to Mr and Mrs 
Rs investments.
Mr and Mrs R says they were concerned over the lack of contact with Enigma. But Enigma 
wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 22 July 2019, inviting them to make contact if they needed any 
advice. Despite this, Mr R made a withdrawal of £10,000 from his SIPP in October 2019 
without consulting the new adviser. Whilst Ive noted that Mr R says this is because he no 
longer trusted Enigma and that he thinks the new adviser should have initiated contact 
once he became aware of the withdrawal, I cant hold the business responsible if he (Mr R) 
chose not to ask for advice about the withdrawal as hed done so previously.
I can see Mr and Mrs R decided to leave Enigma in early December 2019. Enigma found this out when two of the providers responded to its request for valuations by 
saying it (Enigma) was no longer the registered adviser of Mr and Mrs R. I think this 
clearly shows that Enigma were in the process of preparing for the December 2019 
review but due to Mr and Mrs Rs decision to leave, this couldnt go ahead.
Taking all of this into account, I think, on balance, Enigma has acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr and Mrs R in terms of the service it provided to them during 2019. I can also 
see at least one review was done in 2018. I think it was likely that if Mr and Mrs R hadnt 
left before the end of the year (2019), Enigma wouldve carried out the face-to-face review. 
In any event, I cant see not having the meetings caused any detriment to Mr and Mrs R 
because their investments were reviewed during the course of 2019. This was done in 
relation to Mr Rs SIPP in May 2019 and again when Enigma was asked to review all client 
files by the regulator.
Mr and Mrs R only notified Enigma of their decision to leave on 15 January 2020. I can 
see that the last payments from Mr and Mrs Rs investments to Enigma was in December 
2019. So, I dont think anything is owed to Mr and Mrs R as the payments were made a 
month in arrears and notice from Mr and Mrs R was made in January 2020.
With regards to the part of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about wanting their personal data 
removed from Enigmas systems, I think the business has provided reasonable 
explanations as to why it cant erase all of their data. In essence, it has a regulatory duty to 
keep these records and it has provided reassurances to Mr and Mrs R about its duty to 
keep this information safe. Enigma has also been in contact with the Information 
Commissioners Office for advice about the SAR that was made. And its provided Mr and 
Mrs R with data related to their file as they requested. All in all, I think Enigma has acted 
reasonably and fairly in terms of how it has dealt with Mr and Mrs Rs personal data 
requests.
So, whilst I know Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman