DRN-4062722
The complaint
Ms I complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have unfairly refused to refund over £5,000 
she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Ms I says she fell victim to an investment scam with Analystq in January 2022 after she 
came across an advert on a news website. She made three payments over 24 hours 
collectively totalling over £5,000 to crypto platform Ibinex. Monzo refused to refund the 
money Ms I had lost as it said she hadnt reported them as fraudulent. It also said she had 
authorised the payments. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that Monzo ought to have intervened on 
the basis of there being unusual activity on Ms Is account from the third payment she made 
of £3,000 on 1 February 2022. Had it done so, the investigator felt that any further loss 
would have been prevented. Monzo disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to 
determine. 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint to Ms I on 23 March 2023. I said I was 
minded to reach a different outcome to the investigator as I didnt intend to uphold it, and set 
out the following reasons:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not currently 
intend to uphold it.
While Ms I can show that she transferred money from her Monzo account to her 
Ibinex wallet, she has not been able to provide any evidence to show that the 
cryptocurrency was in fact transferred out of the wallet to the scammer. So, while I 
accept there may have been suspicious activity that would have warranted an 
intervention by Monzo, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to demonstrate 
that Ms I has actually suffered a loss here.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Ms I responded with some 
WhatsApp screenshots between her and the alleged scammer but said she couldnt provide 
any evidence of transactions from within her Ibinex account to show the cryptocurrency 
being paid to the scammer. Monzo didnt respond with any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Ms I has provided further evidence in the form of some WhatsApp messages between her 
and the alleged scammer, where she appears to have asked for money to be withdrawn. But 
none of these discussions demonstrate that she was asked to open a crypto account with 
Ibinex or transfer the money to the scammer via this method. 
So, as I set out in my provisional findings, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that 
Ms I suffered a loss here, because although I can see the money being transferred from her 
Monzo account, theres nothing to show the funds leaving her possession from her Ibinex 
wallet and being paid to the scammer.
As a result, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask Monzo to refund the 
money she says shes lost as theres not enough evidence to prove it. It follows that I will not 
be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman