DRN-3833079
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA did not do enough to help him with his request for a refund in
respect of flights he paid for but was unable to use due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr S booked return flights via an agent Ill call D. He paid £1,162 using his
MBNA credit card. The flights were due to leave in March 2021 and return in April 2021.
Mr S amended the booking in December 2020 by extending the return date by a few days
and changing his flights. He paid an additional £600 to D for this.
In March 2021 Mr Ss travel insurer told him his policy would not be valid as hed be
travelling against government advice issued in respect of the covid-19 pandemic. Mr S said
he was required by the country he was visiting to have relevant travel insurance so he could
no longer gain entry to it. He also said his wifes UK residence card had expired and hed
been advised she may have problems returning to the UK.
Mr S said he tried to amend his booking and travel in December 2021 instead, but D was not
accommodating of his request.
Mr S said he expected D to contact him in March 2021 to say the flights had been cancelled
but he didnt hear anything. He asked D for a refund of the flights in April 2021. D told Mr S it
would submit a refund request to the airline. But D didnt get back to Mr S after this and then 
it ceased trading.
Mr S asked MBNA to step in and help him get a refund. MBNA said it couldnt help because
the flights had gone ahead and so there were no grounds upon which a refund was due to
him.
Dissatisfied Mr D brought his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 setting out why I didnt plan to uphold Mr 
Ss complaint. I said:
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled.
In many instances in the early days of the pandemic, where the supplier hadnt refunded the
cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and
commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate.
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and
the legal position, which can be complicated.
Here, I am looking at the actions of MBNA and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in
the way it handled Mr Ss request for help in getting his money back. This will take into
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own
obligations.
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
MBNA said it couldnt raise a chargeback in Mr Ss case, or pay him the flight costs under
Section 75, because the service went ahead. I know this will come as a disappointment to
Mr S, but I dont think, looking at the relevant rules and obligations on MBNA that it has
acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill explain in more detail why I think that is the case.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a
payment Mr S made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer.
While it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there
is some prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set
by the relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
Here, Ive not seen evidence that Mr Ss flights did not go ahead. Having looked at the
chargeback scheme rules and accompanying Covid-19 specific guidance, I find a
chargeback could not therefore have been successfully raised under the dispute condition
goods or services not provided.
Ive thought about other potentially relevant dispute conditions, such as where the merchant
is obliged to provide a refund but has refused one upon request. Having looked at both D
and the airlines terms, its not clear enough that Mr S was entitled to a refund in the event
he did not board his flights. Ill elaborate on the reasons for this later in this decision.
So overall, I do not think a chargeback could have been successfully raised on Mr Ss behalf
and I dont think MBNA was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt raise one.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has
an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, for me to find that MBNA should
have refunded the cost of the flights to Mr S, Id need to be satisfied that there has been a
breach of contract.
The investigator said Mr Ss transaction with D did not satisfy all of the criteria necessary for
a valid claim because the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship (DCS) was not made out. I
see things differently. Mr S paid D and its clear from its terms and conditions that it had a
contract with him. So, I find the DCS relationship was made out between Mr S, D and MBNA
and I can still look at whether D breached or misrepresented the contract.
As Ive explained already, Ive not been provided with evidence that persuades me Mr Ss
flights did not go ahead. And Mr S has said he did not cancel his booking before the flightsdeparted as he expected D or the airline to do this.
So, in order to conclude D should have paid a refund to Mr S, there would need to be
something in the contract which obliged it to do so in the event Mr S did not show up to
board his flights.
From what the investigator was able to locate online, Ds terms at around the time of Mr Ss
booking said the following in respect of refunds:
Unused or part used air tickets are returned to the airline for authorisation and
calculation of any refund due. Any refund received back from the airline is then
subject to loss of deposit and 15% cancellation charges, unless advised differently at 
the time of booking. Refunds can take anywhere between two and six weeks and in
some extra-ordinary circumstances up to six months, depending on the nature of the
booking, to be dealt with by both the airline and Dream World Travel Ltd. In most
cases, Dream World Travel is not permitted to make any refund without reference to
the airline. Some airlines may require proof of departure from the destination country
or a residency certificate, before refunding part used tickets
Looking first at the term as a whole, it could reasonably be interpreted as a promise by D to
apply to the airline for a refund on an unused or part used ticket (the airline ultimately being
the one who decides if the ticket is refundable). And subject to a loss of deposit and the
deduction of a fee, a promise to pay whatever refund it receives from the airline to Mr S.
Whether Mr Ss tickets could be considered unused is unclear seeing as he did not cancel
his booking in advance or board the flights.
Lets suppose they were however. D emailed Mr S in April 2021 and obtained his
authorisation for it to submit a refund request to the airline. Following this it emailed him
again and said the airline has been notified about your refund/cancellation request. On
balance it seems D did what it was supposed to in respect of its obligation to apply for a
refund. Ive seen nothing that suggests otherwise.
Its not clear whether having received this request the airline decided that a refund was due,
and, if it was, its also not clear whether it paid anything to D. The investigator tried to get this
information from the airline and from Mr S but no one has been able to provide clarity.
Without knowing any of this information it becomes very difficult to say D didnt do what it
was supposed to under the contract  it only had to pay a refund to Mr S in the event it
received one from the airline. With this in mind, Ive not seen enough to make me think D
breached the terms of its contract with Mr S by not paying a refund to him.
Mr S has said the contract became frustrated because it was illegal for him to travel under
the UK governments lockdown rules. The legal position where a service can legally go
ahead, but a consumer cant take up the service because of government
guidance/restrictions on travel is complicated. Its arguable the contract between Mr S and D
was not frustrated here because D was a travel agent and responsible for booking flights for
Mr S with the airline, not for the provision of the flights themselves. And that responsibility
wasnt affected by Covid-19.
But even if it could be said the contract had been frustrated and Mr S is entitled to a refund, I
am looking here at the liability of the bank under Section 75. And this is limited to when a
contract has been breached or misrepresented. If the contract was frustrated this wouldnt
be a breach of contract and wouldnt assist Mr S in his claim against MBNA.Overall therefore, while I differ from MBNA somewhat in my reasons for reaching such
conclusion, I dont find it treated Mr S unfairly by declining to meet his claim under Section
75. So, I dont plan to tell it to do anything in respect of Mr Ss complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and I have every sympathy for him seeing
as he was unable to board his flights through no fault of his own.
Neither Mr S nor MBNA responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor MBNA have provided any new comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change the conclusion Id planned to reach. 
So, for the same reasons I explained my provisional decision, as extracted above, I do not 
require MBNA to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman