DRN-3655633
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he, or his former representative, made two Data Subject Access 
Requests (DSARs) to Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) and it did not 
provide a copy all of the personal data he was entitled to as a result.
He says this has severely impacted his position in regard to a complaint he was making to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service at that time and went on to pursue in court.
What happened
In October 2011 HL advised Mr H to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension into an HL 
SIPP and use this SIPP to take tax-free cash and an annuity.
As part of that advice, the HL adviser had a phone conversation with Mr H on 26 September 
2011, before sending a letter to him on the same day enclosing a suitability report. Some of 
the data used in the suitability report came from a transfer value analysis (TVAS) software 
program, which HL had run for Mr H on 20 September 2011.
Mr H later explored making a complaint to HL about its advice with a claims management 
company (CMC). On 29 June 2017 the CMC made a request to HL which it stated was a 
DSAR and seeking to obtain all correspondence and records you hold for our above client 
including statements, account opening forms, telephone recordings and all correspondence 
between yourselves and the introducer.
HL logged this request and issued a reply on 7 August 2017, saying that it had endeavoured 
to locate personal data within the scope of such a request on internal systems as well as 
paper files. It specifically clarified that it was not including marketing-only communications, 
duplicate records or telephone calls.
Mr H alleges that his CMC did not receive the following documents in that response:
- The 20 September 2011 TVAS printout
- The 26 September 2011 suitability report
- HLs note of the 26 September 2011 phone call
Because HL did not supply those same items to the Financial Ombudsman Service whilst it
was considering a complaint Mr H made to HL about his DB transfer, they were also not 
available for the ombudsman to consider when he issued a final decision on that complaint 
on 8 May 2018.
Mr H made a further DSAR to HL after this final decision in July 2018, which he says failed 
to produce a copy of these three documents either. The documents only emerged during the 
process of disclosure as a result of him taking HL to court about his DB transfer (as he had 
not accepted the ombudsmans decision).
I subsequently issued a further decision on 16 March 2022 that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service wouldnt look at a complaint about the DB transfer again, because none of these 
three items of alleged new evidence met the combined tests that they were material, likely to 
affect the outcome and subsequently became available to Mr H.
This decision isnt about the outcome I reached on 16 March 2022. Instead, it addresses the 
remaining issue that Mr H considers he has suffered loss and/or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result of HLs failure to respond adequately to either of the DSARs.
HL told Mr H that it had no way of telling which documents were supplied to him or his 
representative as a result of the DSARs. When the ombudsman service asked, it was only 
able to send us all the documents it could find relating to Mr H.
Before I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 July 2022, I noted that the 
original complaint Mr H brought to HL relating to the DSAR only mentioned the
26 September 2011 suitability report, and HL had offered £50 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by that omission. So, I wrote to HL to ask if it was content for me 
to include all three missing documents in my investigation and if it had any further comment 
to make. HL commented as follows:
The internal confusion within HL as to whether Mr H was an advised or non-advised 
client was the reason it didnt locate the suitability report sooner. (I believe this may, by 
extension, explain why it didnt locate the TVAS, which would have been used to 
prepare the advice; or a phone note that was about the advice.)
Mr H has now made a number of more recent DSARs. In line with its present improved 
process for these it thinks its highly unlikely as a result that there is any personal data 
remaining which still hasnt been provided.
It is happy for me to address all three documents which were originally missing.
It is now prepared to increase its offer of compensation from £50 to £250 in view of the 
fact it could have dealt with the DSAR better.
I have proceeded to investigate this complaint on the basis that I agree its likely that none of 
the three documents mentioned above were included in responses to his or his CMCs 
DSARs. I say this because HL has admitted that the second suitability report wasnt stored in 
the right place in its system or files, and it found it when conducting a further search during 
legal proceedings. And the other two items were never included in the bundles HL sent the 
ombudsman service, suggesting they were also difficult to locate.
In summary, my provisional decision of 11 July 2022 concluded that all three missing 
documents contained Mr Hs personal data, and I was satisfied that this wasnt provided to 
him or his representative in 2017 or 2018. However, I considered HLs revised offer of £250 
was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress caused.
The following is a summary of the main points in Mr Hs response:
He returned to his assertion on the previous complaint that there has been collusion 
between the Financial Ombudsman Service and HL  and says that I have 
consistently praised the business.
I have not considered the relevant laws, regulations, DISP and COBS rules (or at least 
numbered the relevant rules) in this complaint. (He made similar comments about the 
way Id handled his previous complaint, which is not the subject of this decision.
In particular I should have numbered COBS 9.5.2R. DISP 1.4.4R also says that a 
business must cooperate fully with the Financial Ombudsman Service, so its relevant 
for me to take into account that HL didnt provide the same documents to this service 
that it failed to provide to him.Our website says an award of up to £5,000 may be made for distress and 
inconvenience where the business mistakes cause severe disruption to daily life 
typically lasting more than a year. Mr H says that this issue has affected him for five 
years.
HL did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that I understand that its frustrating for Mr H that documents 
which werent available to him in 2017-8 also werent provided to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He says that is something I should take into account as a breach of DISP 1.4.4R. 
The point I originally made in my decision under a different complaint reference (and which 
covers other matters) on 16 March 2022 was that there is a difference between the rules 
FCA sets to police how businesses behave and what activities it allows the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to consider under our rules. The latter is defined more narrowly at 
DISP 2.3.1R, which does not list complaint-handling in its own right  and that would include 
how a business interacts with our service.
What action the FCA takes in relation to any breach of its wider rules is a matter for the FCA. 
As I said in my decision of 16 March 2022, the Financial Ombudsman Service regularly
exchanges information with the regulator on issues such as this. 
The matter Im considering in this decision is specifically a complaint about the 
consequences on Mr H personally as a result of the inadequate response to his DSARs in 
2017 and 2018. I can assure Mr H that I have taken the relevant legislation into account, 
being the Data Protection Act 1998 and Data Protection Act 2018. Thats why Ive made a 
finding that HL did not provide him with a copy of all of the personal data he was entitled to.
Strictly speaking, a DSAR only entitles Mr H to copies of his personal data rather than the 
documents containing that data, but its not unusual for whole documents to be provided to 
satisfy that requirement. And HLs position seems to be that it was its intention to provide all 
the relevant documents but it has been hampered by its inability to retrieve all of them from 
its systems.
Its not clear to me whether HLs comment in 2017 that it would not include phone calls is a 
reference to audio recordings of calls (which the CMC had asked for), or notes that calls had 
taken place. I note that HL has retained a cover sheet for the information it provided which 
does indicate phone calls were included. HL has not elaborated further in response to my 
provisional decision. But either way, it does not seem to be in dispute that Mr H (or his CMC) 
didnt specifically receive HLs note of the 26 September 2011 phone call. No other missing 
notes have been mentioned.
HL has already admitted to Mr H that in respect of his July 2018 DSAR it only carried out a 
general sweep of its main systems  and that omitted information from its advice team 
storage areas, such as the 26 September 2011 suitability report. It told him that its 
processes have significantly improved since 2018, and it does not feel this situation would 
happen again.
Im pleased that HLs processes have improved. But if they have and it is now easier to 
ensure he receives all his personal data, that doesnt alter whether he received an adequate response to his DSARs in 2017 and 2018.
Having looked at the suitability report, the advisers note and the TVAS printout, its clear to 
me that they all contain Mr Hs personal data. Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities 
that they (or the data they contain) werent provided in the responses to the 2017 or 2018 
DSARs, and that I would have expected HL to locate them at the first attempt. 
Mr H is correct that COBS 9.5.2R is the rule that requires businesses to keep records of 
pension transfer advice indefinitely. I only mentioned this in my provisional decision to make 
the point that HLs systems already ought to have been robust enough to retrieve information 
which its regulator expected it to be able to retrieve. I was making that point in the context of 
HLs legal obligation to provide him with a copy of his personal data, as that was the matter I 
was investigating. Not because its the Financial Ombudsman Services role to police 
businesses adherence to the FCAs data retention rules. 
In the event that HL had not held on to the records at all  which is not the case here  that 
would strictly be a matter for the FCA. Ive already indicated in my decision of 16 March 
2022 that HLs initial inability to locate some of the records has not affected the outcome of 
Mr Hs original complaint to this service about the suitability of the transaction. Moreover, 
none of these issues are the subject of the complaint Im considering here.
Distress and inconvenience
So, it now falls for me to consider whether HLs revised offer of £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the impact the omission of these documents has had on Mr H.
Im aware that Mr H is seeking to recover the costs he had spent preparing a legal challenge 
against HL on the basis that there was little evidence of the advice it had given in September 
2011, only for this further evidence to come to light in the form of the second suitability report 
and other documents. But I dont consider I can fairly say that was a consequential loss Mr H 
could reasonably expect to recover from HL.
I can appreciate how inconvenient it was for Mr H to have to reassess what steps he wanted 
to take but ultimately, it was his decision whether to take legal action against HL in the first 
place  and HL would never have been responsible for his costs unless he won his action.
We dont know if he would have won a legal action (with or without the second suitability 
report) because my understanding is that the court has time barred Mr Hs claim against HL
 and I cant see that the timing of when the missing information was provided made a 
difference to that outcome.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts, I also reached 
the conclusion on 16 March 2022 that these three pieces of evidence werent likely to make 
a difference to the outcome our service had already reached on Mr Hs DB transfer: which 
was essentially that Mr H would always have transferred and thereby lost some of the value 
of his DB pension.
So, I cant see as a result that the outcome of either the court action or the Financial 
Ombudsman Services consideration of Mr Hs complaint has been fundamentally altered by 
the absence of these three documents. I therefore think the reason for making an award is 
not because of costs that Mr H unnecessarily incurred, but more a question of the frustration 
and upset caused to him.
In my view, £250 is within the range of awards this service might make in situations where 
there has been material upset caused, as I dont doubt there has been in this case. There is 
an element of subjectivity in setting the level of the award, and Ive taken into account that following further engagement with this service HL has recognised its provided poor service 
to Mr H and is pro-actively looking to resolve the dispute. Im not inclined to replace the 
already improved figure HL has suggested with another without having a fair and reasonable 
basis to say that the latest offer is actually insufficient.
Ive openly shared details of the request I made for HL to reconsider its offer with Mr H. I 
strongly refute any suggestion there has been collusion between HL and this service. To 
suggest this I think misunderstands the Financial Ombudsman Services role in aiming to 
resolve disputes at the earliest possible opportunity (DISP 3.5.1R). I also dont follow Mr Hs 
reference to my consistently praising HL when I have criticised a number of things it did 
wrong, both in the original complaint and in this complaint.
Mr H suggests that a much higher award should be made, using a generic example given on 
our website as the basis for this. These examples are included as a broad outline but in 
reality, every case depends on its own specific circumstances. I note that the part of the 
example Mr H did not quote says, with my emphasis, Examples at the higher end could 
include where the effects of the mistake are irreversible or have a lasting impact on 
someones health or even resulted in a personal injury.
I do not intend to diminish the frustration and upset Mr H has experienced, or the effect it has 
had on his health. However, I cant fairly say the effects of HLs mistake are irreversible in 
the sense that they dont seem to have ultimately affected the outcome of his original 
complaint about the suitability of advice: either with this service or the courts. 
I appreciate Mr H feels this matter has affected him deeply for a period of five years. But in 
my view, this is a wider reflection of the choice he freely made to embark on a complaint and 
legal action over the suitability of HLs advice which were both ultimately unsuccessful. I 
cant fairly say that the more significant chunk of the frustration which he has experienced 
was specifically down to HLs failure to locate these documents.
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr H £250.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman