DRN-3426466
The complaint
Mr Y complains about how Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) administered and managed his 
credit account with it.
What happened
Mr Y opened a credit account, subject to an agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, with Klarna in February 2021.
Mr Y placed an order through his credit account in February 2021 for an item costing 
£3,243.72. This order was debited to his account on 3 July 2021 and, everything else being 
equal, it was Mr Ys intention to pay for this order by the way of 12 interest free monthly 
instalments of £270.31. 
Mr Ys statement (issued on or after 5 July 2021) showed a new and outstanding balance of 
£3,243.72 with a payment due on 31 July 2021, a minimum payment due of £32.44 and an 
interest-saver payment of £270.31.
On 2 and 3 August 2021 Mr Y contacted Klarna to query/complain that his direct debit 
payment (scheduled for 31 July 2021) wasnt showing as a debit on his bank account.
On 4 August 2021 Klarna issued Mr Y with a final response letter (FRL1) in respect of the 
above complaint. Under cover of this FRL Klarna said it wasnt upholding Mr Ys complaint 
because it didnt believe it had done anything wrong and his payment scheduled for 
31 July 2021 would show as a credit on his credit account with it, and as a debit on his 
account with his bank, in due course.
Mr Ys August 2021 statement (issued on or after 5 August 2021) showed a new and 
outstanding balance of £2,973.41 with a payment made on 31 July 2021 of £270.31, a 
payment due on 31 August 2021, a minimum payment due of £29.73 and an interest-saver 
payment of £270.31.
Mr Ys September 2021 statement (issued on or after 5 September 2021) showed a new and 
outstanding balance of £nil with a payment made on 6 August 2021 of £2,973.41.
On 16 September 2021 Mr Y complained to Klarna about its administration and 
management of his credit account with it.
On 13 October 2021 Klarna issued Mr Y with a final response letter (FRL2) addressing the 
following points: 
1. Mr Y wasnt issued (by it) with a schedule detailing when his direct debit payments (in 
respect of his credit account) would be collected.
2. Mr Ys credit account terms and conditions didnt state what his payment collection 
date would be.
3. Mr Y received poor service from it when he contacted it to question the direct debit 
collection process on his credit account.
4. Its monthly payment reminders to Mr Y were confusing.
5. It had issued Mr Y with its FRL1 without giving him the opportunity to comment 
further.
6. My Ys credit file hadnt been updated immediately by it following his decision to clear 
his credit account to £nil.
7. It had hadnt given Mr Y the opportunity to explain/expand on his complaint points.
Under cover of this FRL Klarna said it wasnt upholding points 1,2 5,6 and 7 but it was 
upholding his complaint points 3 and 4 for which it was prepared to pay £35.
Following receipt of its 13 October 2021 FRL, Mr Y responded to say, amongst other things, 
that he found Klarnas offer of £35 derisory.
Following the receipt of Mr Ys response to its 13 October 2021 FRL, Klarna contacted Mr Y 
to say it was now prepared to pay £45.
Mr Y, unhappy with both FRLs issued by Klarna, referred matters to our service.
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators who, in summary, said:
Complaint handling, in itself, isnt a regulated activity so he wasnt going to address 
Mr Ys complaint point that Klarna sent him FRL1 without giving him the opportunity 
to discuss matters further.
Klarna had apologised for not explaining its direct debit collection process clearly 
when he first opened his credit account.
There is no requirement on the part of Klarna to issue its customers with a direct 
debit payment schedule, only to notify them when their next payment is due/will be 
collected.
There is no requirement on the part of Klarna to provide direct debit collection dates 
in its credit account terms and conditions. 
There was insufficient evidence to conclude that the 31 July 2021 direct debit 
payment wasnt collected from Mr Ys bank account (and credited to his credit 
account) in an acceptable timeframe.
Klarna could have been clearer in its telephone explanations about its direct debit 
collections process, but £45 compensation for this poor service is sufficient.
There was insufficient evidence to conclude that there had been any delay on the 
part of Klarna in updating credit reference agencies that Mr Y had, in early 
August 2021, cleared his credit account.
Mr Y disagreed and said a sum of £100 would constitute a more appropriate sum for Klarna 
to have to pay him.Because Klarna didnt respond to the investigators enquiry as to whether it was prepared to 
increase its offer of compensation of £45 to £100 and because the investigator wasnt 
persuaded such an increase was warranted or justified, Mr Ys complaint has been passed 
to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr Y has very strong feelings about the matters he has complained about. He has 
provided detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr Y will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
Like the investigator Im satisfied that Klarna did nothing wrong in not supplying Mr Y with a 
schedule of direct debit payments, or in its failure to provide direct debit collection dates in its 
credit account terms and conditions. This is simply because there is no requirement on the 
part of Klarna to do so.
Ive also been unable to identify any errors in the collection of Mr Ys 31 July 2021 direct 
debit payment or how, and when, Klarna reported the status of Mr Ys credit account to third 
party credit reference agencies, including after he had cleared it to £nil.
However, I accept that Klarna could have been clearer in explaining in its direct debit 
collections process at the outset and when Mr Y called it, that its monthly payment reminders 
to Mr Y might have been confusing and that due to a technical error it failed to send My Y an 
automated email in July 2021 explaining on what date his (next) direct debit would be 
collected. 
But in my view Klarnas offer of £45 for the above represents a fair and reasonable sum for it 
to have to pay Mr Y, especially as I cant see that these things, in themselves, caused Mr Y 
a direct financial loss.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that the investigator was correct in 
saying that complaint handling, in itself, isnt a regulated activity. But even if this wasnt the 
case, I cant see that Mr Y has been prejudiced in being deprived the opportunity to 
explain/expand on his complaint points or in being deprived the opportunity to comment 
further on his first complaint to Klarna before it issued FRL1. This is because Mr Y has been 
given ample opportunity to explain and expand on his complaint points to our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that Klarna Bank AB (publ) must, to the extent it hasnt done so already, 
pay Mr Y £45 in respect of this complaint but it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman