DRN-2343656
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss R took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch in 2004.
I wrote a provisional decision in October 2020 in which I set out why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and inviting both parties to provide any further submissions they 
wished to make before I reached my final decision. Miss Rs representative confirmed that 
Miss R had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss R says that PPI was added to her mortgage account without her knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form that was completed during the meeting. 
There is a separate section for PPI which offered three options  that you wanted PPI, that 
youd like to consider it and that you didnt want it. The first option has been ticked, indicating 
that Miss R said that she wanted PPI.
Santander has also provided a copy of the Mortgage Interview Record. There is a YES/NO 
option next to where it says mortgage PPI, and the YES option has been ringed to indicate 
that Miss R chose to have the policy.
Ive also seen a copy of a letter that Santander wrote to Miss R on 4 March 2004 (which was 
in advance of the mortgage going live) which confirmed what had been discussed at the 
mortgage interview. It states that PPI has been agreed to and provides some details of the 
policy, such as the cost and benefit. 
I have no doubt that Miss R has provided her honest recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Rs recollection of events 
has faded.  And indeed, Miss R wasnt able to remember some of the details from the time. 
For instance, she said she was a first time buyer, but the mortgage application shows that 
she was re-mortgaging from another lender.
Overall, looking at the available evidence, I consider that Miss R would have known from the 
wording and layout of the paperwork that she had a choice about buying PPI. It seems to me 
that Miss R decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remember doing so.
Santander advised Miss R to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to her it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Miss Rs circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for her.
Although Miss R has told us that she was self-employed at the time, the mortgage 
application shows that she was in full time employment. She has recently clarified that she 
would only have received statutory sick pay. Given the nature of her employer, I think its 
likely that she would have received some enhanced sick pay benefits. However, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Miss R would 
have received full pay for. And Miss R didnt have any other means, such as savings, that 
she could fall back on. So I think Miss R had a need for the policy and could have benefitted 
from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Miss R did have a pre-existing medical condition which may have been excluded under the 
policy. However, her condition was something that shed had since childhood and that was 
controlled by medication. Miss R has said that she had the odd few days off work if she was 
ill. So it doesnt appear that her pre-existing condition has affected her on a day to day basis. 
As such, I doubt Miss R would have thought that this condition would be the reason why she 
might have to make a claim on the policy. So Im not persuaded that the exclusions and 
limitations in the policy would have restricted cover for Miss R to the extent that she wouldnt 
have wanted to take it out.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But for the reasons already mentioned, 
I dont think that Miss R would have been affected by any of those things. As I think she had 
an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have 
caused her to change their mind. So shes no worse off as a result of anything Santander 
may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Santander needs to do to put things right.
As neither of the parties had any further comments, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings of my provisional decision. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman