DRN-3034525
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on his 
group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had private medical insurance policy through his employers group scheme. His 
premiums were paid by his employer following their deduction from his monthly salary.
In December 2019, Mr E was referred for investigations into a mole. During his appointment, 
the mole was removed and sent for testing. A few weeks later, Mr E was unfortunately 
diagnosed with malignant melanoma, which required further treatment.
Around the end of January 2020, Mr E called BUPA to discuss having the treatment carried 
out privately. The call handler provided Mr E with a pre-authorisation number and details of a 
potential specialist. Mr E was unable to contact the specialist though as he says he was told 
the specialist no longer worked in that area. BUPAs care team provided Mr E with voicemail 
details of further specialists who might be able to help. It also let him know that hed need to 
arrange his own specialist appointments and that BUPA would consider further treatment 
authorisations as and when they were required.
Mr Es broker complained to BUPA, as it didnt think BUPA was doing enough to assist him. 
BUPA provided the broker with further details of specialists who may have been able to treat 
Mr E. Ultimately though, Mr E chose to cancel the policy and underwent treatment on the 
NHS. 
Mr E was very unhappy with the way BUPA had handled his claim. He didnt think BUPA 
made it clear that it operated as an insurance company which might pay out claims, hed 
understood it was more than that. And he didnt think BUPA had responded to his situation 
sympathetically. Both he and his broker felt it shouldve done more to assist him. He asked 
us to look into his complaint. He considered BUPA ought to refund all of the premiums hed 
paid towards the policy, together with information about the tax hed paid for the premiums 
so that he could reclaim these amounts from HMRC.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had acted unfairly. She considered the policy paperwork 
made it clear how the policy worked and what BUPAs role was. So while she sympathised 
with Mr Es position, she didnt think BUPA needed to do anything more.
Mr E disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed responses to the investigator. He said the 
main problem was that BUPA had simply given him a number, but it hadnt guaranteed it 
would pay out if hed been able to find a private surgeon to operate on him. He felt that the 
way BUPA advertised its cancer services was misleading. He explained the impact his 
diagnosis had had on his life. He felt hed paid for a benefit hed never been able to use.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, I dont think BUPA has treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr E that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his responses to our investigator, Ive read and considered all hes said and sent us. I 
havent commented on each and every point hes raised though and our rules dont require 
me to. Im also sorry to hear about the impact Mr Es diagnosis has had on him and I dont 
doubt how upsetting his illness has been for him.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the available evidence and the circumstances of Mr 
Es claim, to decide whether BUPA responded to his claim reasonably.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Es policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
BUPA. Ive referred particularly to the section called Claiming  a step-by-step guide to 
making a claim, as I think this sets out how BUPA will respond to a claim. This explains that, 
for certain medical conditions, a policyholder can either call BUPA directly to arrange a 
referral to a consultant under the Direct Access provisions or obtain a referral from their GP 
called the Open Referral process. In regard to Direct Access, the policy says:
When you call us we will:
help you find a fee-assured consultant or recognised practitioner within your local 
area covered under your benefits and
confirm the benefits available to you under your cover.
In regard to Open Referrals, the policy says:
call us to pre-authorise any claim before arranging or receiving any treatment. When you 
call we will:
help you find a fee-assured consultant in our list of Open Referral Network 
consultants that applies to your benefits
help you find a recognised practitioner within your local area
confirm the benefits available to you under your cover.
It goes on to say:
Simply call the number on your membership certificate and we will talk you through your 
options. We will explain which nearby consultants, facilities and healthcare professionals are 
covered under your Bupa membership and provide you with a pre-authorisation number so 
your healthcare provider can send the bill directly to us. If your consultant recommends 
further tests or treatment, it is important you check back with us to obtain further pre-
authorisation.
I think the terms of the contract make it clear that in order for BUPA to pay claims, it requires 
a policyholder to first obtain its agreement that it will cover the costs of treatment before the 
treatment is carried out. This is a process called pre-authorisation. If an authorisation code is 
given, it means that BUPAs agreed to cover a particular treatment, medication, investigation 
etc in line with the policy terms. Pre-authorisation allows BUPA to assess a claim against the 
policy terms and decide whether its covered or not. An insurers entitled to be satisfied that 
a policyholder is claiming for something the policy covers.  Pre-authorisation isnt an unusual 
process and most private medical insurers include similar provisions in their contracts.Having looked at this complaint, Im persuaded that BUPA quickly pre-authorised Mr Es 
initial treatment and sought to provide him with the details of a fee-assured specialist who 
could carry out that treatment. Its unfortunate that it appears the specialist details BUPA 
initially gave to Mr E no longer applied and I can understand why he was upset by this, given 
the seriousness of the diagnosis hed been given. But I can also see that BUPAs care line 
did leave Mr E voicemail messages in mid-February 2020 providing details of other 
specialists who might be in a position to provide the treatment he needed and it tried to 
contact some specialists directly on his behalf. This was around six to seven days after Mr E 
had had a follow-up NHS appointment which he needed before treatment could be arranged. 
Its also agreed that BUPA sent Mr Es broker a list of potential specialists on 10 March 
2020.
On this basis, it seems to me that BUPA did try and take reasonable steps to help Mr E find 
a potential specialist who could provide the treatment he needed. Its unfortunate that the 
specialists didnt respond to BUPA  but its notes do show that it passed on details to Mr E 
and the broker  and tried to make direct contact with specialists in the field. Its also clear it 
referred Mr E to a care line to help him with any queries he had. So I think it did try and 
assist Mr E during a difficult time. I dont doubt how worrying the delays in finding a specialist 
were for Mr E, but I dont think it would be fair for me to hold BUPA responsible for these 
delays given Im satisfied it did take fair steps to meet its obligations.
Id also add that I dont think the policy literature or contract suggest that BUPA is 
responsible for arranging a policyholders treatment or appointments. Ultimately, only the 
specialist treating a patient knows what treatment that patient will need or their own diary 
availability. So I dont think BUPA could reasonably determine Mr Es ongoing treatment plan 
or when it happened. I dont think the documentation was misleading on this point. And as 
Ive set out above, I think the contract sets out what a policyholder needs to do and how 
BUPA will respond at the time of making a claim.
The records Ive seen indicate that BUPA tried to clearly explain how the policy worked to Mr 
E and the potential implications on the applicable excess if treatment straddled two policy 
years. I think this was a fair action for BUPA to take, although I understand Mr E found it 
unhelpful given his situation.
Overall, I dont think BUPA handled Mr Es claim in an unfair or unreasonable way. In cases 
of cancer, its sometimes the case that the NHS is able to provide treatment as quickly as a 
private provider can. This is outside of BUPAs control though. Im pleased Mr E was able to 
access the care he needed under the NHS, but I dont think this means BUPA made any 
error in the way it handled his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman