DRN-3444812
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service she received from J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as 
Chase, when trying to add an electronic payment app onto her work mobile telephone.
What happened
Ms M needed to get a train home and only had her Chase card details as a potential means 
of payment. Ms M contacted Chase and asked how she could set up her work mobile phone 
 which was the only mobile phone that Ms M had on her at that time  to be able to make 
payments via an electronic payment app using her Chase bank details. 
The Chase agent then asked Ms M whether she had her personal mobile phone with her, on 
which the ability to make such payments was already set up and which would be needed to 
authorise the potential setting up of the payment facility on Ms Ms work mobile phone. 
Ms M wasnt happy at being asked this question as shed explained that she didnt have her 
personal mobile phone on her at the start of the call. And she wasnt happy with the rest of 
the service she received from the agent on the call, including that she wasnt able to set the 
payment facility up on her work mobile phone which meant that she had to take a taxi home 
and pay using cash she had at her house upon arrival. So, she raised a complaint.
Chase looked at Ms Ms complaint. They acknowledged that the agent to whom Ms M had 
spoken should have taken account of Ms M telling them that she didnt have her personal 
mobile phone on her, and so they apologised to Ms M for this and made a payment of £20 to 
Ms M as compensation for any trouble or upset caused. However, Chase didnt feel that they 
should reimburse the cost of the taxi to Ms M as Ms M was wanting, and so they didnt 
uphold that aspect of her complaint.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Chases response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Ms Ms complaint. But they felt that they payment of £20 
compensation by Chase to Ms M already represented a fair and reasonable response to 
what had happened, and so they didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Ms M might want Chase to reimburse the cost of the taxi that she had 
to take home, given that she wasnt able to set up the electronic payment facility on her work 
mobile phone when she called Chase.
However, Chase have confirmed that the payment facility that Ms M wanted to set up can 
only be set up on one mobile device at a time, and that in order for the facility to be taken off 
Ms Ms personal mobile phone and added to her work mobile phone (as Ms M was wanting) 
Ms M would have needed access to her personal mobile phone to authorise that action.
But Ms M didnt have access to her personal mobile phone at that time. And there was no 
possible workaround that would have enabled her to have added the payment facility to her 
work mobile phone without having access to her personal mobile phone.
As such, Im satisfied that it would never have been case at the time of the telephone call 
that Ms M would have been able to add her payment facility to her work mobile phone. And 
this means that it would never have been the case that Ms M would have been able to 
purchase a train ticket using her Chase bank card details as she was wanting to do.
Im therefore satisfied that Ms M would always have had to make alternative arrangements 
to get home that day and that her being unable to purchase a train ticket wasnt something 
for which Chase should fairly or reasonably be held accountable for. And it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this aspect of Ms Ms complaint or instructing Chase to reimburse 
the cost of the taxi to Ms M as she would like.
Ms M is also unhappy with the service that she received from Chases agent when she first 
contacted them. In their response to Ms Ms complaint, Chase have acknowledged that their 
agent should have handled aspects of the call with Ms M differently, and theyve apologised 
to Ms M for this and made a payment of £20 to her as compensation for any upset or 
inconvenience she may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
£20 that Chase have already paid to Ms M here does feel fair to me, given what happened, 
and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have instructed Chase to pay to 
Ms M, had they not already done so.
Finally, Im aware that Ms M isnt happy with how Chase have handled her complaint. 
However, as per the rules by which this service must abide, which can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, 
this service is only able to consider complaints about regulated financial services. 
But this aspect of Ms Ms complaint isnt about a regulated financial service  its a complaint 
about how Chase have handled a complaint. As such, this means that this aspect of Ms Ms 
complaint isnt one that its within the remit of this service to consider.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Chase have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here as Ms M contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Chase to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms M was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman