DRN-2385737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way Nationwide Building Society have administered their 
mortgage account, and the customer service theyve received.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Nationwide. The letter Nationwide 
sent to Mr and Mrs R on 9 December confirmed that the first mortgage payment of 
£2,041.83 would be taken from their account on 20 January. After that, the monthly 
payments would be £1,456.73 starting on 1 February.
 
Before Mr R had received that letter, on 9 December he called Nationwide to set up his 
direct debit. The call handler at Nationwide said that Mr R could make a manual payment for 
January on a date that is convenient for him. He confirmed the direct debit would start from 1 
February.
On 20 January, the mortgage payment was collected from Mr and Mrs Rs account. Mr R 
also made a manual payment on 31 January as hed previously agreed with Nationwide. 
Upon realising hed paid twice in the month, Mr R called Nationwide and asked for £430 to 
be returned as they needed it for other bills. He was happy to keep some of the 
overpayments on the account to reduce the balance. Nationwide told Mr R to cancel the 
direct debit instruction for February and the overpayments for January will cover that 
payment. Mr R made a complaint, and asked for a copy of the call recording hed had with 
Nationwide on 9 December.
On 4 February Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs R a letter to notify them that the direct debit 
payment for February had failed. The letter said that in order to avoid the account falling into 
arrears, they needed to sign and return the direct debit mandate form.
On 8 February Mr R called Nationwide again to query this letter and to ask for an update on 
the £430 hed asked to be returned. The call handler said the letter was sent out as part of 
an automated process and said shed arrange for the complaint handler to give him a call.
On 10 February Nationwide sent Mr R their final response letter. They upheld Mr Rs 
complaint about the direct debit and for the fact the call he requested had not been sent. 
They paid him £100 compensation.
On 13 February Mr R called Nationwide as he was unhappy with how things had been 
handled, and still hadnt received the £430 payment. The call handler said she would 
arrange the payment which would take three to five days to reach his account. They also 
discussed setting up a new direct debit instruction for future months.
 
On 20 February Nationwide issued another final response letter. They apologised for the 
conflicting information Mr R had received and for the fact the payment had not yet been 
made. The letter confirmed the payment of £430 had been issued that day. Mr R was also 
asked to provide evidence of any financial loss suffered as a result of the delayed refund so 
they could review it. Nationwide offered an additional £150 compensation.
Mr R responded to that letter. He explained that due to the low interest rates the financial 
loss as a result of the £430 payment was negligible. He complained about the call he had 
with the Nationwide call handler on 13 February, as shed asked Mr R to make Februarys 
payment when the account was already in credit.
 
He also complained about how his complaint had been handled. He provided information 
about his and Mrs Rs circumstances and why these errors had such an impact on them. He 
said they were already in a vulnerable position, and Nationwides errors provided additional 
unnecessary and unwelcome stress and worry. Mr Rs letter also set out the costs he felt 
hed incurred as a result of spending time dealing with these errors, and also complaining. 
He calculated that these costs totalled £885. This included a £5 unauthorised overdraft 
charge as a result of the payment being taken on 20 January. He said that in addition to 
these costs, £750 would be the minimum compensation hed expect for the emotional 
damage Nationwide caused.
Nationwide responded on 18 March. They offered £5 to cover the overdraft charge, but said 
they wouldnt consider any further compensation as they were satisfied the amount offered 
was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, and 
whilst he agreed Nationwide could have handled things better, he thought theyd done 
enough to put things right.
Mr R disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by acknowledging all of the information Mr R has sent us about what he and 
his family have been through in recent years. I understand he feels strongly about this 
complaint, and I want to assure Mr and Mrs R that I have carefully considered everything 
theyve told us. Whilst I may not refer to everything theyve said, I have taken it into account.
Ive listened to the call Mr R had with Nationwide on 9 December, and in that call the 
member of staff explained that there was currently no direct debit set up on the account, and 
that he would set one up to start on 1 February. The call handler confirmed to Mr R that he 
would need to call up in January after hed been paid and make a manual payment. I do 
think this is important, as Mr R made it clear on the call that he wouldnt be able to afford to 
make the monthly payment for January until the 31st of the month when hed been paid. The 
call handler agreed that was fine.
Clearly there has been some sort of error here. As the letter sent to Mr and Mrs R confirming 
the direct debit details starting from 20 January was also sent to him on the same day  9 
December. Nationwide are responsible for the fact theyd told Mr R that no payment would 
be collected in January  as theyd made a separate arrangement for this to be paid 
manually when Mr R was able to pay it. A payment was collected on 20 January, which Mr R 
says caused him to go into an unauthorised overdraft. Mr R also made the manual payment 
on 31 January as agreed. This included an overpayment on top of the contractual monthly 
payment.
As a result of both of these payments, the mortgage account was in credit for the month of 
February. When Mr R had realised what had happened, he asked for some of that 
overpayment to be returned (£430) and cancelled the payment for February. Nationwide didnt return that payment until 20 February, which they admit is later than they should have 
done. In the meantime, Nationwide had also contacted Mr and Mrs R about the fact their 
direct debit had been cancelled, and so their February payment had not been made. When 
Mr R called Nationwide about that they initially told him he would still need to make the 
February payment even though the account was in credit, although they did rectify this and 
told Mr R that another payment did not need to be made that month.
Nationwide have offered to compensate Mr and Mrs R for any direct financial loss they 
suffered as a result of being out of pocket of the £430 for longer than they should have been. 
Theyve also offered a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the initial 
mistake, and then the subsequent mistakes that followed. Mr and Mrs R have said that its 
cost them £885 to deal with the mistakes caused by Nationwide, and they think a distress 
and inconvenience award of £750 is more appropriate.
Im satisfied Nationwides offer to cover the direct financial loss caused by their mistakes is 
fair. That would put Mr and Mrs R back in the position they would have been in had the 
mistakes not happened. However, this doesnt include the additional costs Mr R says he 
incurs as a result of the time hes spent dealing with these issues. As our investigator has 
explained, our service does not recommend payments to punish a business for their 
mistakes. The awards we make for distress and inconvenience are modest, and reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused as a direct result of the specific errors made, taking into 
account the particular circumstances of the case.
Its clear Nationwides actions have caused Mr and Mrs R distress and inconvenience. They 
had significantly more money taken from their account than they were expecting, and when 
the mistake was realised and Mr R requested a refund, it took longer than it should have 
done for him to receive that. Mr R also had to spend time trying to sort the problem out  as 
the call handlers he spoke to did not resolve things for him and gave him conflicting 
information.
 
But whilst I appreciate Mr R feels a large compensation award is due, Im satisfied the £250 
Nationwide have already offered is an appropriate award for the distress and inconvenience 
caused here. We do not recommend awards to compensate for the time its taken for 
someone to deal with a complaint or to calculate their costs. As a result, whilst I appreciate it 
will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, Im not recommending Nationwide should 
do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Im 
satisfied Nationwide have made a fair offer to put things right, and instruct them to pay the 
£250 distress and inconvenience award, and £5 overdraft fee, if they havent already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman