DRN-3690472
The complaint
Miss D and Mr M complain that National Westminster Bank Plc refused their application for 
further borrowing on their mortgage because Mr M had taken self-employed financial support 
during the coronavirus pandemic. As a result they moved their mortgage to another lender 
and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Miss D and Mr M had a mortgage with NatWest. They decided to move house and applied to 
NatWest to port their mortgage, borrowing more money to fund the house move.
They were told that because Mr M had taken self-employed income support scheme 
(SEISS) grants, they were not eligible for further borrowing. As a result, and so they didnt 
lose out on the property they wanted to buy, they went to another lender which agreed to 
lend what they wanted. They had to pay an ERC on their existing mortgage with NatWest.
Miss D and Mr M complained. They said that NatWest had a blanket policy of not lending to 
anyone whod taken an SEISS grant  this was unfair and discriminatory. They said that 
while theyd taken the grants, their business had in fact grown during the pandemic and was 
in an industry that was largely unaffected. They said that had NatWest been willing to 
consider their application on its own merits, it ought to have seen that they didnt present any 
risk and could have lent to them. They said it was unfair theyd had to pay an ERC.
NatWest said that at the time it didnt take into account income from the SEISS scheme, or 
income from a business that had used the scheme, because that was likely to show that the 
business had been impacted by the covid-19 pandemic and therefore was at higher risk of 
not being able to support the mortgage in the future. It said it could have looked at Miss D 
and Mr Ms individual circumstances had they appealed a decision, but by then theyd 
decided to go elsewhere. It didnt agree to refund the ERC. But it offered £300 compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill for the frustration theyd experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss D and Mr Ms frustration in this case. They had an existing mortgage with 
NatWest. By the time of their application, they say  and I have no reason to doubt  that 
their business had recovered and indeed was in a stronger position than it was 
pre-pandemic. The particular sector they are in was less directly impacted than many others. 
They feel that if NatWest had looked carefully at their individual situation, it would have seen 
that and would have been willing to lend to them  as indeed their new lender did. And that 
resulted in them having to pay an ERC.
What I have to decide is whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances.
All mortgage lenders are required to act within the regulators rules  which includes having 
clear policies on how affordability is to be assessed, so that mortgages are only lent where 
they are sustainable. 
That does not mean that each lender takes the same approach  some are more willing to 
accept higher risk borrowing than others, or treat the same situation in different ways. Within 
the broad parameters the regulator has set, different lenders have different business models, 
and this means that different lenders might legitimately reach different outcomes on the 
same application. This doesnt mean either lender has done anything wrong, it simply 
reflects that theres a range of business models and options available within the regulated 
market.
At this time, in early 2021, NatWest had decided that it wouldnt accept applications that 
relied on self-employed income from a business that had taken an SEISS grant. Thats why 
it wasnt able to lend to Miss D and Mr M  their business had taken a grant early on in the 
first lockdown in 2020, and another grant while they were required to self-isolate for a time.
Miss D and Mr M say this isnt fair, because it doesnt reflect the actual position, which was  
despite having taken the grants  their business was thriving and largely pandemic-proof.
NatWests position is that there was still great uncertainty at this time. The UK was in, or just 
emerging from, a further long and strict lockdown. It couldnt be known how long the 
pandemic would go on for, or how serious its impact would be on both the wider economy 
and on individual businesses. The government had put in place a support scheme for the 
self-employed  the SEISS  and having taken an SEISS grant meant that a business had 
been impacted in the past, and therefore was at higher risk of being impacted again in the 
future. This in turn made it more risky to rely on income from this business to support a 
mortgage, and therefore meant that at this time NatWest wasnt prepared to accept 
applications from borrowers whod relied on SEISS grants.
Miss D and Mr M say this is discriminatory. I dont think it is. As a matter of law, self-
employment is not a protected characteristic under the Equality Act so theres no direct 
discrimination. And even if there were indirect discrimination (for example because those 
with a protected characteristic are more likely to be self-employed  though Ive seen no 
evidence of that), NatWest might still be able to show that its policy is objectively justified. In 
any case, making findings on the legal question of unlawful discrimination is a matter for the 
courts.
However, when they say NatWest has discriminated against them, I think Miss D and Mr M 
mean that theyve been treated unfairly because as self-employed customers theyve been 
treated differently to other customers. And whether or not theyve been treated unfairly is 
very much a matter for me.
Ive explained NatWests position above. This resulted in it not being able to take Miss D and 
Mr Ms application forward. And while I know how strongly they feel about it, I dont think this 
was  in the circumstances at that particular time  unreasonable.
Ive explained that, within the parameters of regulation, lenders have a broad discretion on 
how they lend and their lending policies.
I think it was reasonable for NatWest to decide  in the circumstances as they were in early 
2021  that the pandemic was still a very large factor to take into account in lending 
decisions. It was reasonable for it to be concerned about increasing lending in a situation 
where an unprecedented international emergency might impact an applicants ability to 
repay their borrowing in ways that couldnt be predicted with any certainty. And it was reasonable for it to conclude that if Miss D and Mr M had been impacted enough to have to 
take grants in 2020, they might be impacted again in the future  affecting their ability to 
repay any increased borrowing.
I dont think the fact that a different lender assessed their application in a different way  and 
did decide to lend  means that NatWest was wrong. It just means that those two lenders 
both made reasonable, albeit different, decisions within the broad parameters of responsible 
lending set by the regulator, reflecting the different risk appetites and commercial priorities of 
two separate banks.
Ultimately, no lender ever has to accept a lending application. Its up to NatWest to decide 
whether it wants to lend. In this case, it didnt  and for the reasons Ive given, I think this 
was in the circumstances of early 2021 a reasonable decision for NatWest to make. 
It follows from the rejection of their application that if Miss D and Mr M still wanted to buy the 
new property theyd have to go to a new lender. As they were still in a fixed rate period, that 
meant paying an ERC.
Given the decision NatWest made was a reasonable one, I dont think fairness required it to 
waive the ERC. When they took their fixed rate, NatWest made clear an ERC would apply 
and that while Miss D and Mr M could apply to port and borrow more money, doing so would 
be subject to NatWests lending criteria at the time. 
When it reasonably decided not to lend more money to Miss D and Mr M, they were allowed 
to exit their fixed rate so they could still go ahead with their purchase with another lender  in 
return for paying the ERC. This is how their mortgage was supposed to work, and I dont 
think it was unfair to charge the ERC in these circumstances.
I note that when the complaint came to us, NatWest made an offer of £300 compensation to 
resolve it. I think thats fair, and I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plcs offer of 
£300 is a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint and I direct it to pay that amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman