DRN-3649363
The complaint
Mr C complains that Insurance Factory Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a telematics policy through Insurance Factory. Insurance Factory said the 
telematics device had recorded excessive speed. And so it said it cancelled the policy, giving 
seven days notice, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. Mr C said the policy 
documents that hed received didnt say that Insurance Factory would cancel the policy for 
this reason. He was unhappy with the cancellation and that his full years premium wasnt 
returned. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr C 
hadnt been provided with the correct policy documents. And so she thought he hadnt been 
given enough information about the policys terms and conditions when he took out the 
policy. This meant that the cancellation terms Insurance Factory relied on hadnt been 
brought to Mr Cs attention. And so she thought the cancellation was unfair. 
She thought Insurance Factory should refund the cancellation charges, remove records of 
the cancellation and pay Mr C £250 compensation for his trouble and upset. But she thought 
the premium refund was an issue for the insurer, not Insurance Factory.
Insurance Factory replied that it had sent Mr C the correct telematics policy documents when 
he took out his policy. It said these set out clearly that the policy may be cancelled if 
excessive speed is detected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C is adamant that he wasnt warned in any of the policy documents 
provided by Insurance Factory that his policy may be cancelled due to excessive speed. And 
I can see that the cancellation has had an adverse impact on his finances and social life. 
Mr C took out his policy through an online comparison site. He was then provided with a 
Welcome Letter from Insurance Factory and directed to an application to download his policy 
documents. Mr C understood that he was buying a telematics policy and he installed the 
black box provided. 
Mr C provided us with the documents that he said he downloaded from the application. I can 
see that the policy schedule and certificate refer to a telematics policy. But the Insurance 
Policy Information Document (IPID) and policy booklet refer to private car insurance, not 
telematics. Also, the Welcome Letter refers to private car insurance although it directed Mr C 
to the application and the black box installation. 
Insurance Factory states that it would have sent the correct telematics policy documents to 
Mr C via the application. Its evidence is a screenshot of the documents sent. But I cant see 
from the screenshot whether or not these were the documents for the telematics policy. 
Cancellation of a policy due to excessive speed is a common term in telematics motor 
insurance policies Ive seen, and I dont think its unusual or unreasonable. But it is 
significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording and in the IPID. I can see 
that the exclusion is clearly set out in the telematics policy provided by Insurance Factory. 
But I cant see that the policy term is set out in the documents that Mr C said he downloaded 
via the application. 
Insurance Factory thought Mr C may have obtained these documents from anther policy. But 
Mr C has explained that he didnt and that they were the ones he downloaded. Unfortunately 
Mr C no longer has access to the application following the cancellation, so he cant provide 
further evidence for this. 
In these particular circumstances, I cant safely say that Insurance Factory made Mr C 
sufficiently aware of the policy terms and conditions when he took out his policy. So I cant 
say that Mr C was able to make an informed choice at point of sale that the policy suited his 
needs. And I cant say that cancellation due to excessive speed was drawn to Mr Cs 
attention so that Insurance Factory could rely on it to cancel his policy. So I think the 
cancellation was unfair. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Insurance Factory has done here, we expect it 
to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer. 
Having the cancellation on his record has affected Mr Cs ability to find affordable cover 
elsewhere. So I think Insurance Factory should remove records of the cancellation and 
confirm this to Mr C and reimburse any cancellation charges or fees it applied, with interest 
as Mr C has been without his money for some time. 
Mr C has also been caused considerable trouble and upset. The Investigator recommended 
that Insurance Factory should pay Mr C £250 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for this level of impact. 
Mr C also explained that hed only had two months cover when hed paid for a full year. But 
its the insurers decision to retain the full premium if there is an open claim on the policy. So 
I think this is something Mr C would have to raise with the insurer, not Insurance Factory, his 
broker.
Putting things right
I require Insurance Factory Ltd to do the following:
1. Refund Mr C any charges (fees and commission) resulting from the cancellation, adding 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the policy was cancelled until 
the date the payment is made;
2. Ensure that any record of the cancellation is removed from internal or relevant external 
databases and provide Mr C with written confirmation that this has been done.
3. Pay Mr C £250 for the distress and inconvenience the cancellation has caused him.
If Insurance Factory considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Insurance Factory Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman