DRN-1585171
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
mortgage loan. Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading then as Cheltenham & Gloucester, 
mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
In 1999, Mrs P took out a mortgage loan with Lloyds and at that time she was sold a PPI 
policy. The policy cost £13.50 a month and protected Mrs Ps mortgage repayments if she 
was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs P says the PPI policy was added without her knowledge and that she didnt know she 
was paying for it. But I can see that on the mortgage application form which Mrs P signed a 
Yes box has been ticked to confirm PPI was wanted. Theres an equally prominent No 
box that could have been ticked if it hadnt been wanted. Ive also seen a PPI proposal form 
which Mrs P completed and signed at the time. And she also completed and signed a direct 
debit mandate to allow the insurer to collect the monthly policy premiums.
So, from the information Ive seen, I think that Mrs P did actively choose to take out the PPI 
policy to protect her mortgage repayments, knowing that this was optional. But this sale took 
place a very long time ago, so I can understand why she may not recall this now.
Lloyds have treated this as an advised sale. And Ive also taken this to be the case because 
this means that Lloyds needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs P. I dont 
know all the steps which it took to ensure that this was the case. But from what I know of Mrs 
Ps circumstances then, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this 
because:
 
Mrs P appears to have been eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations.
 Mrs P says she was eligible for generous sick pay and redundancy terms from her 
employer. She says she also had a critical illness policy and some savings. So she 
doesnt think she needed the cover that the policy gave her. But this policy would 
have paid out for up to twelve months on a successful claim and in addition to these 
employee entitlements and her savings. And her critical illness policy wouldnt have 
provided her with the same type of cover as her PPI policy. I also need to recognise 
that a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where ones home is potentially 
at risk if the repayments cant be made. So, all things considered, I still think Mrs P 
would have valued the extra security that the PPI policy gave her.
 
 Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs P. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by her if it no longer met her needs.
 
Lloyds also needed to give Mrs P enough clear information about the policy for her to decide 
if she wanted it. I think its possible that the information Lloyds gave her could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for Mrs P, I dont think that better information would have changed her mind about buying it. I 
think shed still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at an affordable price.
So I dont think that Mrs P has lost out by anything that Lloyds may have done wrong when it 
sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs P has said about why she still thinks the PPI was mis-
sold. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman