DRN-3547657
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) for 
declining to replace their patio door. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M hold home insurance with LV. 
In early 2020 they suffered a break in at their home. The intruders entered through the patio 
door and caused damage to the lock and door handle in the process. 
Mr M and Mrs M claimed on their home insurance. The claim was accepted, and repair work 
was completed in February 2020. The work to repair the door was described as a cosmetic 
repair, adjusting the door and fitting it back on the track. 
No concerns were raised at the time of the work. 
Around May 2021, Mr M and Mrs M reported issues with the patio door in that it jammed 
shut. They contacted LV. 
LV sent contractors to look at the door, and those contractors noted that the track was bent, 
and this was causing the issue. The contractors believed that this was due to wear and tear 
but refitted the door onto the track. 
In November 2021, Mr M and Mrs M contacted LV again as the door was coming off the 
track. LVs contractors attended again and placed the door back onto the track. They 
considered though that the issue was due to wear and tear and reported this back to LV. The 
patio doors were no longer manufactured, and parts were no longer available. The 
contractors estimated that the door had been installed around 25 years earlier. 
Mr M and Mrs M believed that the track had been bent during the break in and thought that 
the door should be replaced as part of their claim. They complained to LV.
LV rejected their complaint in December 2021. Mr M and Mrs M then complained to us. 
Our investigator has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. This was 
that she was not persuaded on the evidence that the damage was a result of the break in or 
the repairs. She therefore did not think that LV had acted wrongly in declining to replace the 
door. 
Mr M and Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this I have reviewed multiple photographs supplied by both parties, taken across 
several visits by contractors. 
I have also reviewed the opinions of the contractors engaged by Mr M and Mrs M, who say 
that the damage was caused by the break in. Their opinions do not explain why they 
conclude that the break in was responsible, and do not explain why the issues did not 
manifest more quickly after the door was repaired. In one opinion, it details that the door 
should operate on an additional track which is not present and suggests that this has been 
missing since the break in. 
I am not persuaded by those opinions and, looking at the photographs and report from the 
initial repair see no suggestion that a track was lost or bent during the break in. The damage 
sustained to the door centred around the door handle.  
I agree with my colleague that the evidence is mixed, and I do not consider that there is 
sufficient evidence that the damage occurred as a result of the break in, or of the repair. 
I therefore find LVs view, that the damage was due to wear and tear, more reasonable and I 
agree with my colleagues view that as a result LV was entitled to decline the claim. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M, but for these reasons I do not 
uphold their complaint and do not ask LV to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and do not ask 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman