DRN-3585076
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd gave 
them unsuitable investment advice in 2005. They say that they were low risk investors and 
should have been sold a fixed rate bond, rather than a structured product which exposed 
them to too much risk.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company. For ease, Ill 
refer to everything as if its been said by them.
What happened
Mr T had recently received an inheritance and he and his wife sought advice from Legal & 
General. They were assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk and their investment 
objective was capital growth. 
Legal & General recommended that Mr and Mrs T each invested £5,000 in a structured 
deposit held within an ISA wrapper.
During the investment term, one of the firms used for capital protection filed for bankruptcy 
and the part of the investment secured by it was lost. Due to the growth in the FTSE 100 
index, Mr and Mrs Ts original investment was recovered, plus a small amount of growth.
Legal & General was satisfied that the investment met Mr and Mrs Ts needs. It didnt think 
the advice it gave was unsuitable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
investment was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs T, given their agreed objectives and attitude to 
risk.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They said, in summary, that:
The return from the structured product was dependent upon the solvency of a handful of 
firms, one of which collapsed.
Mr and Mrs T werent aware of what rates were available for fixed rate bonds. Whilst 
they may have wanted a better return than a basic current or instant access account, 
they couldve put their money in a longer-term fixed rate bank bond, earning around 5% 
or higher, which would have been fully FSCS protected in the event of insolvency. This 
would have been more suitable for them, taking into account their desire for minimal risk, 
their ages, and the term of the product they were sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale happened around 18 years ago, and limited records are available. In cases like 
this, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered everything carefully, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs T were inexperienced investors, but Im satisfied that they wanted to take a small 
risk with £10,000 of their available capital. Capital security was important to them, but they 
wanted the opportunity to generate higher growth than a bank or building society account on 
their £10,000 investment. 
They say now that, at the time of the sale, they werent unhappy with their money remaining 
in a bank or building society account, just that they wanted a better return. But the notes of 
the meeting, which were made at the time, clearly say that their aim was to achieve growth 
on £10,000 at potentially higher rates than banks and building societies. And that they were 
comfortable investing in equities as long as there is an element of security on their capital. 
So I think it more likely than not that they did want to move their money from a bank account 
and were willing to take some risk.
The investment represented around 18% of their available capital. They chose to keep 
£47,000 on deposit for planned spending and emergencies; they had a monthly income 
surplus of £340; and they did not foresee any change in their circumstances. Based on their 
circumstances at the time, I think they could afford to take a small risk with £10,000 as it only 
represented a small percentage of their capital, and any losses wouldnt have had an impact 
on their lifestyle.
The investment needed to be held for six years. I havent seen any evidence to suggest they 
might have needed that money before maturity. They say Mr T was about to retire, but this 
isnt what he told the advisor at the time. He was self-employed and didnt want to talk about 
retirement planning. And, even if Mr T did decide to retire within six years, Im not persuaded 
he would have needed to access the investment.
The equity bond Legal & General recommended didnt have a capital guarantee. But it did 
offer capital protection. That protection was provided by five counterparties. This meant the 
protection of Mr and Mrs Ts capital was reliant on those counterparties. Unfortunately one of 
the counterparties became insolvent during the 2008 financial crisis. So the proportion of the 
bond protected by that counterparty was lost. But I dont find that what happened made 
Legal & Generals recommendation to invest in the bond unsuitable.  I say this because it 
wasnt reasonably foreseeable that one of the counterparties would fail  they were all major 
institutions. And the bonds capital protection wasnt reliant on just one counterparty, so the 
risk of failure was spread. I cant conclude with certainty that the counterparty risk was drawn 
to Mr and Mrs Ts attention because the key facts document they would have been given 
during the sale is no longer available. But its more likely than not that the risks would have 
been set out in the key facts, so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T were most likely made aware of 
them.
Mr and Mrs T say they would have got a better return from a fixed rate bank deposit. But 
I cant make a decision based on the benefit of hindsight. When the advice was given, Im 
satisfied they wanted the potential of a better return than a fixed rate deposit account and 
the bond provided that potential.
Overall, whilst its unfortunate the investment didnt provide the anticipated return, Im 
satisfied that Legal & Generals recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs T based on their circumstances at the time and their agreed investment objective and attitude to risk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman