DRN-3213538
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly withdrew his overdraft 
after him having paid all the charges for a number of years. Hes also complained about the 
impact of the charges.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr S complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Mr S overdraft had already become unsustainable for him by December 2015. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr S overdraft from this point. 
Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from December 2015. By this 
point, it was evident Mr S was struggling financially. 
A cursory look at his transactions leading up to this period shows that Mr S hadnt seen a 
credit balance for a significant period of time. Mr S has spent most of 2015 with an 
overdrawn balance towards the top of his limit even exceeding it on occasion. Equally, while 
Ive seen what Santander has said about Mr S choosing to operate an overdrawn balance, 
Im mindful that it ought to have realised that Mr S income was made up of benefits. 
Im not saying that this in itself means Santander shouldnt have lent. But I do think that it 
ought to have been on notice Mr S was on a fixed income. And, in these circumstances, 
I think that Santander ought to have been particularly mindful that Mr S could ill afford to 
develop a dependency on credit. I say this because I think there was a greatly reduced 
prospect of a consumer, in Mr S position, being able to come into increased funds and use 
them to completely clear a persistent cycle of borrowing  in the way an employed individual 
mightve been able to. For example, as a result of working overtime or maybe getting a 
bonus. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that by December 2015 Santander should have realised 
that Mr S had reached a position where he wasnt going to be able to clear his indebtedness 
without help. So I think that it should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same 
terms and treated Mr S with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Santander should have realised that Mr S was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him help to repay what he owed. As Santander didnt react to Mr S 
account usage and what he said, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ss account from December 2015.
I know that Mr S is unhappy with Santander having reduced and then removed his overdraft 
in the period between 2019 and 2021. But as Ive found that Santander already ought to 
have taken corrective action in relation to Mr S overdraft some four years earlier, it follows 
that I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it did, albeit belatedly, eventually take 
this course of action. And therefore, Im not upholding this part of Mr S complaint.
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr S lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ss credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 
2015. Santander can also reduce Mr S overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his 
limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr S overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman