DRN-1833872
The complaint
Miss M complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited won't deal with an 
insurance claim for damage to her car.
What happened
Miss M was previously insured with another insurer who I'll call E. Miss M's car was repaired 
by E during that period, but she wasn't satisfied with the original repairs so the car had to go 
back for further work.
Miss M took insurance with AA in August 2018. And in March 2019 she says she noticed 
some issues with her car door. She reported this to AA and mentioned that she thought the 
damage related back to the previous insurer. AA directed her to speak to E.
E arranged for Miss M's car to be inspected and a report was issued, saying:
I can confirm the right hand front wing and right-hand door are damaged. Upon further 
investigation, I noted impact damage on the interior rear section of the right-hand door. I 
therefore cannot associate this with poor workmanship from the repairs carried out in 2014.
And:
I can confirm that I have also reviewed images of the vehicle taken on the 19/10/2018 for 
the previous complaint which confirm there is no damage note to the right front door or wing, 
this confirming the vehicle has been involved in a further incident, not related to poor 
workmanship.
So Miss M then asked AA to look at the claim. She says AA told her they wouldn't look at the 
claim because she'd previously said it related back to E. Miss M wasn't happy with that so 
brought her complaint to us.
An investigator here looked into Miss M's concerns about AA and felt they should've done 
more, because she didn't believe the current issue to be linked to the previous ones.
AA didn't agree so the complaint was passed to me. I explained to AA that I too believed 
they should've done more. The comments from the engineer suggested to me that E wasn't 
responsible for the repairs, so I didn't think that was reason enough for AA to reject
Miss M's claim.
AA replied, in summary, stating:
Miss M said the damage was due to E and hadn't referred to any impact damage
Miss M said she'd caused some damage herself
The damage resulted from poor workmanship
It isn't known how or when the damage occurred, so they can't be sure an insured 
peril occurred or that it fell within the AA policy termThe policy doesn't cover malfunction (from the previous repair) or damage caused 
deliberately by Miss M
Because agreement couldn't be reached, it's now for me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss M believed the damage to result from the previous repairs, dating back 
to 2014. But I don't think that's decisive in this particular case. Miss M's car was inspected by 
an engineer, and they concluded that the damage didn't relate back to those previous 
repairs. I'm more persuaded by the engineers comments than I am by what Miss M said 
initially.
In relation to the second and fifth bullet points above, I agree Miss M has said she caused a 
little damage herself - but I haven't seen anything to make me think she did so deliberately, 
that is to say I don't see why Miss M would willfully and intentionally damage her own car.
AA says that without knowing how or when the damage occurred they can't be sure it falls 
within the policy term. I do understand AA's concern here but Miss M says she noticed the 
damage in March 2019. I think it's likely Miss M would've noticed the damage before then if it 
had been present. I say this because it relates to the driver's door which is in regular use. 
And this was over six months into the policy term.
I appreciate Miss M doesn't know how damage was caused, and that can make things 
difficult to assess. But it isn't always possible to pin-point exactly how damage occurred. And 
I don't think that alone is fair reason to reject the claim, especially if - as the engineer report 
says - there is evidence of impact damage.
It follows that I think AA was wrong to reject the claim. There's sufficient evidence available 
to at least warrant a proper inspection in order to determine the claim fairly. So I think the AA 
ought to now deal with the claim with an open mind and without the assumption it's the 
responsibility of E.
I believe in not dealing with the claim fairly, AA have caused Miss M unnecessary trouble 
and upset. While there's no guarantee AA would've covered the repairs, if it had given
Miss M a thoroughly assessed and considered response she'd have at least been able to 
make a decision on what to do next. As things stand Miss M hasn't been able to move on 
from this matter.
If the claim had been covered by AA, Miss M would've had a car she could use earlier. And 
even if it wasn't, she'd have known it was then down to her to arrange the repairs. So either 
way I think it's likely she'd have had the use of her car earlier.
Putting things right
I require AA to now deal with Miss M's claim, I'd like to be clear that this doesn't necessarily 
mean AA will be required to accept and settle the claim. Despite my view that it has been 
handled unfairly to date, in this particular case, I think it would be unreasonable to require 
them to settle the claim without first being able to inspect the car.
I appreciate this doesn't give Miss M the finality she might be seeking but I have to be fair to 
both parties.I require AA to pay Miss M £200 compensation for unnecessary trouble and upset caused. 
This is regardless of the outcome of the claim as it relates to unfairness to date.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Miss M's complaint. I require
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing what I've set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman