DRN-3118703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) didnt cover a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W bought an annual travel insurance policy on 28 August 2019. The policy was 
provided by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs W were due to travel abroad on 20 March 2020. But, on 17 March 2020, the 
UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all non-
essential international travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
On 18 March 2020, Mrs W contacted Great Lakes to make a claim for their unused 
accommodation costs. Great Lakes was initially unable to locate Mr and Mrs Ws policy, but 
Mrs W says Great Lakes then told her the claim would be covered. However, on 6 April 
2020, Great Lakes said the claim wasnt covered. 
Unhappy, Mrs W complained to Great Lakes. Great Lakes sent a final response letter on 7 
July 2020, maintaining its position that the circumstances of the claim werent covered under 
Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Mr and 
Mrs W had suffered a financial loss which they could claim for under their policy, as theyd 
rebooked their accommodation for a future date. 
Mrs W said it was likely theyd be unable to use the future reservation, and so this would 
lead to the loss of the money theyd paid for their accommodation. Mrs W reiterated that 
shed been told by Great Lakes that their claim would be covered. Great Lakes disputed 
certain comments made by our investigator about the insurance cover for any future trip. As 
a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was referred to me to 
independently and impartially review, as the final stage in our process.  
Mrs W has since confirmed to our service that her accommodation provider refunded the 
money she was claiming for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes was the underwriter (provider) of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy. It is 
therefore the business responsible for the decision not to pay the claim. It is also the 
business responsible for any advice given by its administrative agents in connection with the 
claim. 
I dont intend to make any finding on whether I think the circumstances leading to Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim were covered under their insurance with Great Lakes  either under a strict 
application of the policy terms and conditions or on a fair and reasonable basis. This is 
because Mr and Mrs W have no financial loss, so there is no claim for Great Lakes to pay 
regardless of the reason why the trip was cancelled. 
Great Lakes was unable to locate the call during which Mrs W says she was told her claim 
would be covered. This is unfortunate. 
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to give definitive advice about whether a claim will be 
accepted when its contacted with an initial query. All claims are subject to the detailed terms 
and conditions set out in the policy documentation, and an insurer is entitled to ask for 
reasonable evidence and carry out reasonable investigations into a claim before confirming 
cover. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, most advice given by a travel 
insurer in response to an initial query of the kind Mrs W made will be generic and a 
policyholder will usually be advised to submit a claim form, with supporting documentation, 
for consideration before a claim is accepted. 
Even if I accept that Mrs W was given incorrect information, it doesnt automatically follow 
that Great Lakes must then accept a claim regardless of what is set out in the terms and 
conditions of the contract between the parties. Mr and Mrs W would never have been in a 
position to travel on 18 March 2020 so, if Great Lakes did give Mrs W incorrect information, I 
dont think Mrs W relied on this to her disadvantage  there was nothing she could have 
done differently in the circumstances. 
Overall, while I can understand why Mr and Mrs W will have been frustrated by Great Lakes 
delays in responding to them about their claim, I dont think I can fairly say these delays 
were excessive or unreasonable in the circumstances, given the unprecedented challenges 
which were being faced by travel insurers at the time. 
Great Lakes disagreed with certain comments made by our investigator about what might 
have happened if Mr and Mrs W had travelled on a future date. I dont intend to make any 
finding on these issues. The Financial Ombudsman Service makes decisions based on the 
facts of what actually happened in a specific case, not on hypothetical scenarios. And, as Mr 
and Mrs W wont now be travelling on the originally insured rescheduled trip on a future date, 
these issues are of no relevance to the outcome of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman