DRN-3414683
The complaint
Ms K and Mr K are unhappy with how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled a claim made 
under their private medical insurance policy. Theyre also concerned that the premium 
payable for the policy increased.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr K contacted AXA to make a claim under the medical insurance policy. 
He explained he had two Lipomas, that were causing him pain. At this point, it was agreed 
that Mr K would see a specialist about the matter  and an appointment was agreed.
This specialist contacted AXA and said there were lipomas that needed removing  and 
provided a procedure code to AXA for this treatment. But the treatment didnt go ahead. Ms 
K let AXA know Mr K would be seeing a different medical professional instead  and AXA 
said it needed a procedure code from that professional before moving forward.
Nothing then happened for almost two years. In July 2020 Ms K let AXA know Mr K still 
wanted to move forward with the claim but was abroad. Nothing then happened until Mr K 
November 2020, when Mr K was back in the UK. 
At that point, AXA declined Mr Ks claim. It said the policy now didnt cover lipomas  as it 
didnt provide cover for the removal of fat or surplus tissue. Ms K disputed this  noting the 
claim had been agreed previously. So, AXA said it would need Mr K to see a medical 
professional for tests again before it was able to agree the claim.
Mr K did this, and AXA then agreed Mr Ks claim could be accepted. This being because the 
lipomas were causing other symptoms.
After this, there was a delay in Mr K being able to have the necessary surgery - due to 
waiting times at the private hospitals, and the coronavirus pandemic. So, the surgery didnt 
go ahead.
In the meantime, Ms K and Mr K were sent their renewal premium. And the premium on the 
policy had gone up. Ms K contacted AXA about this in March 2021. And a discussion was 
had about a reduction in Mr Ks no claims discount, which had generated a premium 
increase. The reduction in Mr Ks no claims discount was because of AXAs request for Mr K 
to see a medical professional in 2020. 
Ms K and Mr K didnt feel this was fair  they felt diagnostic tests hadnt been needed to 
confirm Mr Ks condition. They said Mr Ks condition was already known. And Ms K and Mr K 
said if these hadnt been completed, the no claims discount wouldnt have been lost, and the 
premium increased.
Given this, they raised a complaint about the matter. AXA was satisfied it had acted correctly 
in asking for diagnostic tests in 2020, given the length of time since Mr Ks last consultation 
for the condition. And, it explained that it was correct to reduce Mr Ks no claims discount, 
given those tests.
Ms K and Mr K remained dissatisfied. So, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
AXA has told this service that Ms K and Mr K bought back the claim in June 2021. This 
meant Mr Ks no claims discount went from 35% to 59.9% And it refunded the premium 
difference of £766.08 at that point. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that it was reasonable for AXA to ask Mr K to go for tests in 2020, given the length of time 
since the original consultations. And in terms of the premium, they were satisfied the policy 
was clear in explaining what happened to the no claims discount upon a claim.  
Ms K and Mr K didnt agree. So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought 
about whether AXA acted fairly in how it dealt with Ms K and Mr Ks claim. Ive also needed 
to consider whether it acted reasonably in terms of the no claims discount being reduced. 
And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXA acted correctly.
Ive reviewed Ms K and Mr Ks policy, to see what cover it provides to them. So, Im aware it 
does provide full out-patient cover, which includes specialist consultations and diagnostic 
tests. 
AXA paid for this in 2018. At that point it seemed to have authorised treatment initially, but 
then was waiting for a new procedure code from a new medical professional before moving 
things forward. This is reasonable, to ensure the claim was covered, and then progressed as 
necessary. Ms K and Mr K have said that Mr K didnt proceed with the claim at that time, for 
various reasons. It was almost two years before they contacted AXA again in relation to the 
issue.
I appreciate Ms K and Mr K are unhappy that AXA required Mr K to attend further 
consultation at this point  because of the impact it had on their premium at renewal. But Im 
satisfied AXA acted reasonably here. Ms K and Mr Ks policy does explain that it may need 
Mr K to see a specialist to examine him. So, when asking Mr K to attend a specialist for 
examination or diagnostic tests, this was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I know Ms K and Mr K feel this wasnt necessary  given the consultations and tests 
undertaken in 2018. But I dont agree. A substantial amount of time had passed since then  
so its reasonable for AXA to ask for information to understand the current position  and 
check the matter is still covered under the policy. So, Im satisfied AXA didnt do anything 
wrong in this respect.
Ms K and Mr K have also highlighted the impact this had on their insurance premium. And 
Im aware Mr Ks no claims discount reduced to 35%. As above, Im satisfied it was fair for 
AXA to ask for the above consultations. And therefore, a claim was made.Ive looked at Ms K and Mr Ks policy documents to see what it says about the no claims 
discount. And I can see it says that it clearly explains if AXA pay any money, no matter how 
little (apart from a few exceptions that dont apply in this case), this payment will be treated 
as a claim.
It also notes, in the Your no claims discount section that:
If we pay a claim for anyone on your policy, we will reduce the amount of the discount by 
that person for three levels until the discount reaches zero. We will do this when you renew. 
So, if anyone on your policy claims and they currently have a 50% discount, it will go down 
to 25%.
This section displays a table showing the relevant levels  so it is possible to see what level 
the no claims discount will go down by. AXA has told us that Mr K had a no claims discount 
of 55%, prior to 2020. And from looking at the renewal documentation sent to Ms and Mr K, I 
can see this went down to 35%. This is in line with a reduction by three levels, as per the 
table. So, Im satisfied AXA acted reasonably in making this reduction. Mr K had made a 
claim, and the way the no claims discount worked was made clear in the policy terms. Given 
this, I dont require it to do anything differently.
Ms K and Mr K have said that in July 2020 they were told going for the above consultation 
and tests wouldnt impact them  because AXA would pay for the fees for these 
investigations. And theyve said they werent told it would impact the no claims discount on 
the policy. But I dont think AXA needed to specifically raise this. As above, the information is 
clear in Ms K and Mr Ks policy documentation. And its usual in the insurance industry for a 
claim to impact the no claims discount in this way.  
In any event, Im aware Ms K and Mr K have since bought back the claim. This meant the 
above no longer being treated as a claim under the policy. Because Ms K and Mr K did this, 
Mr Ks no claims discount was increased. Ive seen the membership certificate following this 
buy back  and can see the no claims discount is now showing as 59.5%. And I can see a 
refund of £766.08 was provided  based on the premium decreasing following the buy back. 
So, Im satisfied AXA acted reasonably when it received a request to buy back the claim, 
particularly as this was completed outside of the cooling-off period within the policy. 
Given the above, Im satisfied AXA hasnt done anything wrong. It was entitled to ask Mr K to 
see a medical professional in 2020. And it dealt with Mr Ks no claims discount in line with 
the policy documentation. So, I dont require it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman