DRN-3991739
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by agreeing an 
overdraft and increasing her limit. She says Lloyds acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs T applied and was approved for an overdraft of £500 in July 2020. This was increased to 
£1,950 over the following 17 days. Mrs T complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by 
providing her with an overdraft. Lloyds didnt agree that it had lent irresponsibly. It says Mrs 
T passed the checks it carried out and based on the information Mrs T had provided it there 
was no evidence to suggest that Mrs T couldnt repay the lending requested. 
Lloyds did however agree to refund all overdraft charges amounting to £373.61 from the 
overdraft review date and pay £40 compensation as it felt it shouldve removed Mrs Ts 
overdraft sooner. 
Mrs T was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that had Lloyds 
carried out a proportionate check before it approved the overdraft lending it wouldve likely 
seen Mrs T was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) from around 20 months 
before her overdraft was approved and ought to have realised that it was unlikely Mrs T 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
They thought Lloyds should refund any interest, fees and charges applied as a result of the 
overdraft from 7 July 2020. 
Lloyds say it didnt have anything on its system regarding the IVA and the information it had 
regarding the default wasnt a cause for declining Mrs Ts application as it was outside its 
exclusion period. 
So the case was progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs T would be 
able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
And in this case Im in agreement with our adjudicator that I dont think Lloyds checks went 
far enough. I say this as at the time the lending was approved Mrs T was the subject of an 
IVA and still is. If Lloyds had carried out the appropriate checks I think it is likely that this 
wouldve showed up and Lloyds wouldve realised Mrs T would have difficulty repaying 
further lending. 
And just having a cursory look at Mrs Ts bank statements prior to the lending - although I 
accept there were transfers into the account for different amounts from another person - the 
only source of regular income appears to be in the form of child benefit and the large credits 
coming into the account were from student loans - which I dont think is enough to support 
an overdraft of almost £2,000.
So although Lloyds has accepted it shouldve removed the overdraft earlier and has 
compensated Mrs T for this in-line with what Id recommend had I made this finding. I dont 
think Lloyds checks went far enough when it approved Mrs T for an overdraft in the first 
instance and I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it charged overdraft interest and associated 
fees from 7 July 2020. Lloyds ought to have realised that it was unlikely Mrs T would have 
been able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
So I think that Lloyds didnt treat Mrs T fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did 
wrong. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ts complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ts current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 7 July 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mrs T to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ts credit 
file, it should backdate this to 7 July 2020. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LLOYDS to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman