DRN-3798206
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr S complain about the exchange rate they got when converting money in their 
account with Key Currency Limited.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr S opened an account with Key Currency to convert the proceeds of a house 
sale from Euros to Sterling. They were looking to convert 521,000 Euros into Pound Sterling. 
Mrs R and Mr S received £417,000 once the money was converted and now complain that 
the rate wasnt competitive to what they couldve received from other businesses. 
Key Currency looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said having listened to the 
sales call, it hadnt found Mrs R or Mr S were pressured, or that the sales agent was 
aggressive or misleading. Key Currency did raise the issue with its liquidity partner and as a 
gesture of goodwill, got Mrs R and Mr S a better rate, adding £3215 to the total amount. Mrs 
R and Mr S remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator said that 
having listened to the phone call that occurred on 14 October 2021, when Mrs R and Mr S 
gave the instruction for the transaction to take place, he found the sales advisor clearly 
explained the exchange rate that was being offered and they agreed to the trade. 
Our investigator went on to say the sales advisor gave Mrs R and Mr S several opportunities 
to decide if they wanted to proceed and didnt find any evidence of any pressure in the 
transaction. 
Mrs R and Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, so its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as 
the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.  
Ive listened to the phone call on 14 October 2021, when Mrs R and Mr S asked to place the 
currency exchange trade and the advisor was very clear on the rate being offered and why 
they might find more favourable looking rates elsewhere. At this point, if Mrs R and Mr S felt 
they could achieve a better rate elsewhere, they couldve stopped before proceeding with 
the trade. 
Mrs R also mentions in the call several times that shes seen better rates elsewhere. 
Although the sales advisor does give reasons why these may have looked better but werent 
better value, I havent seen what I would consider pressure to take the rate he was offering. 
Instead, the advisor was giving his opinion on why these rates may appear lower and his 
prediction for the overall currency market.
Mrs R queried the fact that they had seen a quote for a much better rate. The sales advisor 
explained that this was an interbank rate and that Key Currency buys at a wholesale rate 
which lies below a physical market and offers a trading rate, to the customer. He likened this 
to when you take a mortgage, and the rate usually sits above the Bank of England Base 
Rate- essentially this is how the company makes money. 
The sales advisor gave Mrs R and Mr S several opportunities to decide whether they wanted 
to proceed with the transaction, as well as offering his opinion of the current rates and where 
he thinks they would move in the coming days. The sales advisor also had to get agreement 
from both Mrs R and Mr S before he read out a legally binding script to them both. Mrs R 
and Mr S both then agreed to proceed with the trade. 
Around an hour later, Mrs R and Mr S called to cancel the trade as they said they had a 
better quote elsewhere. At this point the trade was booked and Im satisfied it was too late to 
cancel. Although Mrs R and Mr S have highlighted that they think the trade was made after 
they called to cancel, Im satisfied by checking the time on the sales contract that it was 
already made. 
I understand Mrs R and Mr S have provided quotes from other businesses where they say 
they couldve achieved a better rate. Unfortunately, I cant consider those as Im only looking 
at the interaction with this business and the circumstances of this complaint. Im also not in a 
position to say whether Mrs R and Mr S wouldve been able to achieve these rates by going 
with one of the quotes. But as Ive explained above, Mrs R and Mr S chose to go with the 
quote and rate Key Currency gave them and that was their choice. 
In summary, If Mrs R and Mr S wanted to achieve a better rate, they had the option to shop 
around and do this before asking Key Currency to proceed. I understand they may have 
been under some pressure to achieve the best possible rate for their money, and currency 
markets do move by the minute. But unfortunately, I havent found Key Currency has done 
anything wrong when it executed a currency trade on Mrs R and Mr Ss instructions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R and Mr S, but to uphold this complaint, Id need to find Key 
Currency has done something wrong, and I havent on this occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman