DRN-1989715
 
The complaint
J, a company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC won't refund a large number of card 
payments which it says it neither made nor authorised. It's represented by its director, whom 
I'll call Mr R. The transactions number more than 200 and the total amount in dispute is 
around £90,000. One transaction for just over £3,000 was refunded.
What happened
J operates as an online travel agent. It makes payments through a range of sources, 
including a global distribution system - a network enabling transactions between travel 
agents and airlines, hotels, car rental companies and other travel businesses. Travel agents 
using that system have their own secure credentials. 
Mr R has explained that J carries out its own reconciliation of payments every six months. Its 
accountant noticed the disputed payments at the end of May 2019; they were made between 
November 2018 and April 2019. Mr R contacted the bank in early June 2019. It was able to 
recover one payment of a little over £3,000 because the airline to which the payment had 
been made wasn't able to provide the necessary paperwork. 
Barclays wasn't however prepared to refund the bulk of the transactions. It thought the 
evidence indicated that J had authorised the payments. Its own records showed that the 
payments had been made online using the details relating to J's payment card. It noted too 
that Mr R had accessed J's accounts on a regular and frequent basis over the period of the 
disputed transactions and that many had been made from the same IP address that Mr R 
had used for undisputed payments.
Mr R, on behalf of J, referred the complaint to this service, and one of our investigators 
considered it. He indicated that he wasn't minded to recommend a refund. He thought, like 
the bank, that it was more likely than not that J had authorised the payments. Mr R didn't 
accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
The investigator thought it unlikely that a random stranger was responsible for the payments. 
Whoever carried out the transactions had a lot of information about the business and the 
way it operated. But I note too that the payments were the type of payments that would be 
expected of J. It seems to me unlikely that someone who obtained J's card details and other 
information would use it to make similar transactions. I think the investigator was right to 
dismiss that possibility. The investigator considered too whether someone known to Mr R could have carried out the 
transactions without his knowledge or authority. Mr R has said that nobody else knew the 
security details that would have been needed to make the disputed payments. He's 
dismissed the possibility that his fellow director could have been responsible.  
On balance, the investigator thought the most likely explanation was that Mr R either 
made the payments himself or allowed someone else to do so on behalf of J. As a general 
point, he thought it unlikely that nearly £100,000 worth of payments went out of J's account 
without Mr R noticing. That was a very significant sum compared with the usual account 
balance. By December 2018 around £50,000 of disputed payments had been made, yet the 
balance on the account was only around £4,000. Even taking into account delays in making 
and receiving payments, that's a large difference. Mr R logged into J's account on an almost 
daily basis, so I find it unlikely that he didn't notice it.
Mr R explained that he wouldn't have logged into his account to reconcile payments. That 
may be so, but I still think he would have noticed such significant discrepancies. He has said 
that he controls the company's finances and that only he can operate its accounts; he 
would have had some idea of what payments he'd made and approximately what balance to 
expect.
In all the circumstances I think it more likely than not  that Mr R made the payments on 
behalf of J. Even if someone else made them, I think they either did so with Mr R's 
knowledge and consent or that he found out about them some time before he told Barclays. 
Whichever explanation, or combination of explanations, is correct, I don't believe it would be 
fair to require the bank to refund the disputed transactions. 
Finally, I note that Barclays offered a payment of £200 because of delays in dealing with J's 
complaint. I simply leave it to Mr R to decide whether or not to accept that offer.           
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to do anything more to 
resolve J's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask J to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman