DRN-3374142
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined an application for a reward 
credit card.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr K applied for Barclays reward credit card, but he was declined. He was told 
this was because he held a credit card which migrated over to Barclays in 2008 and its 
system wouldnt allow an upgrade. Mr K felt this was unfair, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays says that Mr K was declined because the rewards card is only available to new 
customers. It only allows customers to have one credit card at any one time, so as Mr K 
already has a credit card with Barclays, he isnt eligible for another one. It says Mr K was 
given incorrect information when he was told it was because he had a migrated account.
Barclays says that if Mr K had used the eligibility checker prior to applying for the rewards 
card, he wouldve been made aware that he wasnt eligible due to being an existing 
customer. Our investigator felt this information shouldve been more readily available on the 
application, so she asked Barclays to remove any searches from Mr Ks credit file  which 
Barclays agreed to.
Our investigator also felt that compensation should be paid. Barclays has offered £100 
compensation for the incorrect information Mr K was given. But it says Mr K was correctly 
advised that he isnt eligible, it was only the reason why he was ineligible that was incorrect. 
So it didnt think it should do more than that  and our investigator agreed.  
Mr K still feels this is unfair. He says existing customers shouldnt be prevented from 
accessing products that are available to new customers. As he didnt accept the findings of 
our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K applied for the rewards card online. I can see that the website gives applicants the 
opportunity to apply now or check eligibility. The website says before you apply, check if 
youre eligible  it wont affect your credit rating. 
Barclays say there is no record of Mr K using the eligibility checker. If he had, he wouldve 
been asked do you have a Barclaycard, or have you had one in the last six months?. If 
answering yes, a warning in red appears which says unfortunately, youre not eligible for a 
Barclaycard. 
Barclays is free to decide how to set its lending criteria and part of this is that it only allows 
one credit card account per customer. As Mr K already has a credit card with Barclays, he 
wouldnt be eligible for another one. 
I agree with our investigator that this requirement couldve been made clearer during the 
application process. Whilst its made clear in the eligibility checker, this part of the process 
isnt mandatory, and many customers may choose to bypass this if theyre not aware of any 
reason that may prevent them from being approved. 
For this reason, I think its fair that Barclays removes any record of this application from 
Mr Ks credit file. I say this because Im persuaded that if Mr K had been made aware of the 
criteria, he wouldnt have applied. I understand Barclays has already agreed to do this and 
has sent instructions internally. If Mr K finds that anything remains on his credit report 
regarding this application, he should inform Barclays so that it can take the appropriate 
action to remove it.
Barclays has also agreed to pay Mr K compensation of £100. This is in acknowledgement 
that it couldve made the criteria clearer and because it gave Mr K incorrect reasons why his 
application was declined. I think this is fair in the circumstances taking into account the 
impact this had. Im not aware of any loss or inconvenience Mr K wouldve been caused, but 
I do acknowledge that he wouldve been concerned that hed been declined due to having a 
migrated account. 
Mr K was not eligible for this card and Im satisfied this application was treated correctly and 
fairly in line with the lending criteria. Im satisfied that its up to Barclays to decide what offers 
are available for existing and new customers and that its not obliged to offer existing 
customers the same offers that are available for new customers. So whilst I appreciate 
Mr Ks disappointment here, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything wrong or unfair 
that requires it to do anything more than whats been offered.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to settle the 
complaint and to remove any record of this application from Mr Ks credit file. I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100 and remove the application 
from Mr Ks credit file  if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman