DRN-3592551
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs H are represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call M.
What happened
M has explained that Mr and Mrs H were existing members of Diamond Resorts 
International, a holiday and timeshare club. In February 2009, while they were on holiday at 
one of the clubs resorts, they were invited to a presentation. They took the opportunity to 
discuss their (unspecified) problems with their membership and were persuaded that buying 
more Points Rights would resolve those problems and give them access to a wider range of 
accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs H bought 3,000 Points Rights at a cost of £4,260. To fund the purchase, Mr H 
took out a £20,000 running credit facility with BPF. BPF says that the facility was closed in 
January 2013.
In January 2019 M contacted BPF to raise a number of issues on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. M 
said:
The seller made misrepresentations about the benefits of the holiday club membership. 
Under the relevant sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 BPF is equally liable to Mr 
H for those misrepresentations. 
The commission paid by BPF to the seller was not disclosed.
The seller exerted undue pressure on Mr and Mrs H. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
BPF did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loan was suitable and 
affordable. 
M then referred the matter to this service. In the course of our consideration of the complaint, 
M said as well that the seller had been in breach of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations) and that the 
sale contract was potentially open-ended. M also said that certain terms were likely to be 
unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
(UTCCR). 
Our investigator considered the case but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, 
primarily because of the time that had passed since the purchase of the holiday club 
membership and the date of the loan agreement. M did not accept the investigators view 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case. In doing so, it made lengthy, but generic, 
further submissions. They discussed UK and European timeshare law and the development 
of Diamond Resorts International; they did not however address the investigators key 
finding that the claims against the seller were likely to be out of time.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did. I set out my reasons below. 
First, the February 2009 credit facility was in Mr Hs sole name, so only he has a debtor-
creditor relationship with BPF. It follows that only he can bring this complaint to this service. 
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the 
credit facility was otherwise not appropriate for Mr H. I note that the facility was closed 
several years ago, and that Mr H raised no issue with BPF while it was current. It does not 
necessarily follow of course that proper checks were carried out or that the facility was 
affordable.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in February 2009. I think Mr H would have known fairly soon after that date if 
he was having difficulty making repayments. He certainly would have known by the time the 
facility was closed in 2013. It is therefore arguable that this part of the complaint should have 
been referred to this service by no later than 18 February 2015  six years from the date Mr 
H took out the credit facility  and that we have no power to consider it.  
Even if I were to take a different view on that  perhaps because Mr H did not know what 
checks were required at the time  I am not persuaded that additional checks would have 
made any difference in this case or that Mr H has suffered any loss as a result. It is likely 
that he would still have been given the facility and that he would have repaid it. 
 Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer credit agreement are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The seller in this case was Diamond Resorts Tenerife Sales SL (DRTS). I am satisfied that 
the credit facility financed the sale and was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements 
between that company and BPF. Section 75 could therefore apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against DRTS. Mr H says that DRTS misled him and his 
wife about the holiday club membership. Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs H at the time of the sale, 
beyond what I have summarised above. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr H into the contract 
for the purchase of the points were made on or before 18 February 2009. He did not 
however raise any complaint with BPF until January 2019, nearly ten years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against DRTS would now be 
outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against DRTS is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act or whether it would succeed in any event. Rather, I must decide whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold BPF liable for the claims made by Mr H. Given (i) the 
real possibility that a court would say that the claims are time-barred and (ii) that any 
limitation defence available to DRTS would also be available to BPF, I do not believe it 
would be.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can 
consider any linked agreement  which in this case would include the sale agreement with 
DRTS. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than January 
2013, when the credit facility was closed. It may have been earlier than that, if the account 
balance had been reduced to zero. No claim was suggested until M contacted BPF on or 
about 3 January 2019, almost exactly six years after the facility was closed. Under the 
Limitation Act, however, time stops running when proceedings are started, not when the 
defendant is notified of a potential claim. 
However, even if this part of Mr Hs claim had been brought in time, I think it unlikely that it 
would succeed. 
As well as alleging misrepresentations on the part of DRTS, M says that it was in breach of 
the 2010 Regulations. I note however that the sale contract here pre-dates the 2010 
Regulations; the relevant legislation in 2009 was the Timeshare Act 1992 and The 
Timeshare Regulations 1997. There is no suggestion that there was any breach of the 
earlier pieces of legislation, still less that any such breach would make the credit facility 
unfair. 
The allegations made about the sales process are extremely vague, and the alleged 
misrepresentations are not particularised. If a contract term is unfair within the meaning of 
UTCCR, the usual remedy is that it is not enforceable. M has not indicated that DRTS has 
sought to enforce any of the terms which it says might be unfair or, if it has, how that has 
affected Mr H. M says that the commission paid by BPF to DRTS was not disclosed and that it should have 
been. But DRTS was not acting as Mr Hs agent in introducing the loan; it was acting as the 
seller of Points Rights and providing an option for payment. This is not a case where, for 
example, a broker was recommending a financial product from a range of products  where 
the level of commission might have influenced any recommendation. I do not believe DRTS 
was under any duty to disclose the level of commission it received.    
M has said too that the club membership is potentially a contract in perpetuity. The contract 
says that Diamond Resorts International will be wound down at the end of 2054, but explains 
that members may be able to relinquish membership before then. Given however that Mr 
and Mrs H were already members, I think its reasonable to assume that they knew this and 
accepted it even before they bought additional points in 2009.      
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. 
Conclusions 
In summary, therefore: 
The complaint about the credit assessment may have been brought outside our own 
time limits so that I have no power to consider it. 
Even it were brought in time, I do not believe I can properly uphold it.
Any misrepresentation claim against DRTS is  likely to be out of time under the relevant 
provisions of the Limitation Act. It would not therefore be reasonable to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about BPFs response to the claims made under sections 56 and 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act.   
I do not believe there are any grounds on which I can properly say that the loan created 
an unfair relationship between Mr H and BPF. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my 
decision before 31 May 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman