DRN-3247257
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam. He thinks it should have intervened when he made the payments using his 
HSBC debit card and credit card. HSBC says it cant recover these payments as they didnt 
go directly to the scammer. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Nor that Mr A 
authorised the payments from his HSBC accounts, albeit not realising he was being 
scammed. So, the starting positionin line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017is that hes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice, Id 
expect HSBC to have systems in place to monitor for indications that its customers 
are at risk of fraud. In some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect 
it to make additional checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and 
that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold HSBC liable.
That said, when simply executing authorised payments, HSBC doesnt have to 
protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice.
Ive considered whether HSBC ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. These were made to two different, genuine cryptocurrency 
exchanges. The amount of each payment was under £4,000, many for significantly 
less, and they were spread out. The first payment to each exchange was in the 
hundreds, and no further payments were made until several days later, giving Mr A 
time to reflect on whether to continue. His current account statements also show 
there was a history of similarand highervalue payments in and out of his account 
in the months leading up to the scam. That made the transactions appear less 
suspicious.
Overall, I dont hold HSBC at fault for simply executing the payments without 
performing further checks. I must think about what level of intervention is fair and 
proportionate on banks, given the volume and value of transactions they process. 
Mr A says HSBC previously intervened at a lower level, but it cant check every 
payment. And Im conscious of the impact his recent account history likely had on 
what it reasonably saw as suspicious. 
Given this, I dont need to make a finding on whether intervention would have 
prevented Mr As loss. But Im conscious hes suggested he wouldnt have 
proceeded if HSBC had explained more about how cryptocurrency worked. It may 
help to explain that, when intervening, banks arent expected to give investment 
advice. Rather, Id expect them to ask their customer about how they came to make 
the payment  and to warn them if their responses suggested it could be a scam. But 
in Mr As case, hed already told the scammer he wasnt at all convinced it wasnt 
part of scam, yet he continued to pay them. That makes it harder to conclude that 
the bank warning him about this would have prevented him from proceeding.
Ive also considered whether HSBC should have done more to help Mr A recover his 
loss. Such as by considering chargeback claims, or Section 75 claims on his credit 
card payments. But I cant see there are grounds for either type of claim to succeed. 
Thats because these claims would only consider a breach or misrepresentation by 
the merchant(s) Mr A paid directly. Whereas I cant see hes allegedor provided 
evidencethat the cryptocurrency exchanges he paid directly are at fault, rather than 
the scammer he transferred the funds onto. 
Ultimately, Mr As loss was caused by the cruel actions of the scammer. I havent found that 
any failings by HSBC caused or contributed to his loss, nor that it couldve done more to help 
him recover this. So I cant fairly hold HSBC liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman