DRN-4211450
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as X, is unhappy that Barclay Bank UK PLC defaulted 
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and restricted access to its other accounts.
Xs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
Mr P noticed that he was unable to access Xs business accounts with Barclays online. He 
spoke with Barclays about this and was told that Xs BBL had been defaulted for non-
payment and they had restricted Xs other business accounts as a result. Mr P wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint on Xs behalf.
Barclays didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong in how theyd administered Xs 
accounts, including the defaulting of the BBL. Mr P wasnt satisfied that Barclays hadnt 
resolved Xs complaint in Xs favour, so he referred Xs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr P has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding Xs 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr P for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr P notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised on Xs 
behalf, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both X and Barclays. Rather, it 
should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address 
it directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
When X accepted the BBL agreement in June 2020, it accepted the contractual repayment 
obligations of that agreement. These included that X was required to make monthly payment 
towards the BBL from July 2021 onwards. But X didnt do this and missed several 
contractually required payments towards the loan. 
This left Xs BBL in a position of arrears, and in June 2022, Mr P spoke with Barclays and 
agreed an arrears repayment plan whereby X would make increased payments towards the 
loan for six-months, to clear the outstanding arrears over that time. The first payment of the 
arrears repayment plan was due in July 2022. But X didnt make this payment, and as such 
the agreed payment plan was broken at the first instance. 
Following this missed payment, and with Xs BBL being further in arrears, Barclays sent a 
series of letters to X about the position of the account. But nobody from X responded to 
those letters, and this led Barclays to issue a formal demand to X in October 2022. 
This formal demand explained that X was now considered to have defaulted on the BBL 
agreement such that full and immediate repayment of the outstanding loan balance was now 
required. And because Xs business current account (BCA) was in an overdrawn position 
at that time, Barclays issued a formal demand on that account also. But X didnt repay the 
BBL or clear the overdrawn balance on its BCA. So, Barclays defaulted both the BBL and 
the BCA, as they had explained that they would.
None of what Ive described above seems unfair or unreasonable to me. This is because X 
didnt meet its contractual payment obligations on the BBL. Additionally, Im also satisfied 
that Barclays sent several letters to X which clearly informed it of the position of the loan, 
and which gave X ample opportunity to either clear the BBL arrears or engage with Barclays 
and arrange an arrears repayment plan with them. 
Notably, as Ive mentioned, Barclays had agreed an arrears payment plan with X. But X then 
failed to make any of the agreed payments. And in these circumstances, the further actions 
of Barclays, including the defaulting of the BBL, seem both fair and reasonable to me.
Mr P argues that X didnt receive the letters that Barclays sent about the account arrears. 
But Barclays have been able to confirm that the letters were sent to the address which is 
listed on Companies House as being the registered address for X. 
It doesnt necessarily follow that correctly addressed letters will be correctly delivered. But 
this service wouldnt hold Barclays responsible for the non-delivery of correctly addressed 
letters, given that the delivery of letters is undertaken by a postal service over which 
Barclays have no direct control. 
Additionally, Barclays sent notifications about the account arrears to Mr P via other 
channels. And Mr P appears to have responded to one of these notifications when he called 
Barclays in June 2022 and discussed Xs BBL arrears with them. And so, I feel that its likely 
that Mr P was receiving information from Barclays about the status of Xs BBL via at least 
one channel of communication.
However, it was the responsibility of Mr P as Xs director to have monitored the position of 
Xs BBL by any of the various channels available  such as by online or telephone banking 
when those options were available  or to have appointed someone at X to have done so.
This means that if letters werent being received by X, that X wasnt absolved of its 
responsibility to have understood the ongoing status of the loan which it had taken and 
agreed to. And its also difficult to find any reasonable argument against the expectation that 
Mr P should have proactively contacted Barclays if it was the case that X wasnt receiving 
account correspondence from them.
Mr P is also unhappy that Barclays have defaulted Xs BCA. But Barclays terms include that 
they can cease providing services to X or close Xs accounts if they reasonably believe that 
X is likely to be unable to meet its contractual obligations on those accounts when they 
become due. And, given that X failed to meet its contractual obligations on its BBL, and 
given that Xs BCA was in an overdrawn position, I dont feel that its unreasonable for 
Barclays to have invoked this term and defaulted Xs BCA in this instance.Finally, Mr P is unhappy that hes unable to answer security questions to Barclays 
satisfaction on some other accounts of X that presently hold money. But its for Barclays to 
set their security requirements. As such, if Mr P cant presently pass those security 
requirements, its for him to work with Barclays and to discuss potential alternative solutions 
with them, to Barclays satisfaction. And I wouldnt consider instructing a bank to consider a 
person to be cleared to access an account if that person cant pass the security criteria 
required of them by that bank.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here as Mr P contends. This is because, ultimately, X didnt meet its contractual repayment 
obligations on the BBL, and because I feel that Barclays actions in response to Xs failure to 
meet its obligations is both reasonable and fair.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further or alternative action. I hope Mr P will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman