DRN-3224570
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Financial Services Limited has reduced the credit limit on his 
credit card, and he said it did this without a proper explanation. He pays a fee for the card, 
and the benefits he usually receives now cant be obtained.
What happened
Mr L said hed held his Creation card for five years. But recently Creation had reduced his
credit limit from £10,000 to £500, a 95% reduction. He said he understood that a company
can determine its own lending criteria, but he said Creation had told him this decision was
partly due to information obtained from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr L said his personal circumstances hadnt changed, so he was very alarmed as this CRA
information must be wrong. But he said Creation wouldnt tell him what it was.
Mr L said his credit card had a £99 per year fee, but if he spent £10,000 on the card in a
year, he would get a free night at any hotel in the associated chain. He said thats why he
pays the fee. But with the new credit limit, he could no longer obtain this.
Mr L wanted -
- details of the adverse CRA scores used by Creation so he could contact the CRA
concerned and correct it,
- restoration of his previous credit limit or a full refund of his £99 fee for the card, and
- a gesture of goodwill to reflect the hassle and anxiety caused by concern over his
credit score.
Creation said it had taken this decision based on information received from CRAs. It said it
had taken a number of factors into account. It wrote to Mr L on 9 December to tell him about
the lowered limit. Creation said it wouldnt change this back. It was sorry that it had promised
to call Mr L back, then not done so, and it paid £50 in compensation for that.
Creation said that it was entitled, under the terms of Mr Ls account, to change the credit
limit. It said Mr Ls balance had been considerably below his new limit, for five out of the six
months before the limit was reduced. And it said hed stayed under the new limit, after the
change. So it didnt think that this change had caused Mr L any financial difficulty.
Creation said Mr L had kept using the card, so he had been charged the £99 annual fee
again in March 2021. But if he wanted to cancel the card, Creation would refund that fee.
Our investigator thought the reason Mr Ls credit limit had been reduced would be because
of Mr Ls account usage, not because of his credit file. But I dont think that Creation had
intended us to understand this, from what it said. It has said that it reduced this credit limit
because of something on Mr Ls credit file. And I have seen internal emails sent within
Creation that confirm what it had initially told Mr L about the reason for the change.
As Mr L had understood this was an issue with card use, hes shown us that he has now
started travelling again, which means that spend on the card has increased. And he said he
wanted to keep the benefits this card provides for him. He said he would accept the offer of a
refund of fees, as long as he could keep these benefits.
Creations offer to refund fees appears to be based on Mr L cancelling his card. It hasnt
offered to refund this money if Mr L wants to retain the card.
Our investigator then wrote to say he didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said
Creation had followed its own terms and conditions, and was entitled to reduce Mr Ls credit
limit. He said Creation had agreed to refund Mr Ls annual fee. He didnt think the account
had been mis-sold, because Mr L had been able to earn the reward he wanted, in the years
prior to the pandemic. And, as Mr L hadnt been spending over his new limit in the majority of
the months before his limit was reduced, he didnt think that this change had caused Mr L
financial hardship.
Our investigator said that Creation couldnt forward a copy of Mr Ls credit file, but Mr L could
access this himself if he would like to.
Our investigator didnt think Creation had been unreasonable, as it had followed its own
process. So he wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr L replied, to say he wasnt happy with this, and he felt this conclusion didnt follow from
his previous conversations with our investigator. Mr L said his financial position was very
good, so Creation couldnt be telling the truth about why it had changed his limit. He thought
the underlying problem was with Creation, not with him, and it was acting unreasonably with
the intention of forcing him to stop using this card. He said even if our service couldnt stop
Creation from doing this, we should be calling out what its doing.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr L that I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I 
understand that this will be very disappointing for him, particularly as Ive reached 
this decision for such different reasons. So Id like to start by setting out our services 
overall approach to lending, before I look at the issues in this case.
Its clear that any lending involves some risk to the business doing that lending. Our 
service would generally say that (however big or small this risk looks to us) its still a 
matter for the business thats actually lending the money to assess that risk, and 
decide if it wants to take it. Whilst we do sometimes say that a business shouldnt 
have lent, perhaps because the lending looks unaffordable or irresponsible to us, we 
dont usually say that the business should have lent, when its decided not to. 
So Creation doesnt have to lend Mr L money, in the same way that Mr L doesnt 
have to have a card with Creation. Both sides are allowed to choose who they do 
business with.
I understand that Mr L doesnt have the same choices here that he might have with 
an ordinary credit card, because this card comes with additional benefits which are 
important to Mr L. And because of that, I know Mr L would like, ideally, for Creation to 
just reinstate his old credit limit. But it would be very unusual for our service to tell a 
business that it must lend someone more money.Ill now turn to the details of this complaint. I think I ought to set out clearly for Mr L 
that I do think that the reduction Creation made in Mr Ls credit limit was because of a 
concern that it had over something on its credit file. Creation has confirmed this to 
our service. And I have seen internal evidence which shows that the risk score 
Creation has, based on information from Mr Ls credit file, did change around the 
time that Mr Ls credit limit was reduced.
Creation hasnt refused to share information about this with our service. Its simply 
said that its not able to recreate the position of Mr Ls credit file as it was when this 
decision was taken. But it has said that everything which is on Mr Ls credit file is 
information Mr L has access to.
Creation is responsible for the decisions it makes. And its told us it doesnt think this 
decision was a mistake. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Creation has made a 
mistake here. I can see that Creation has acted within the terms of Mr Ls account, in 
making this change. And Ive not seen anything to make me think that the decision 
Creation took was actually for a different reason, as Mr L has suggested.
Ive also considered whether this decision was implemented unfairly or unreasonably, 
and I dont think it was. Mr Ls account was below the limit that Creation reduced his 
card to, and that new limit was in keeping with the usage hed made of his card in the 
last six months. I know that this new limit means Mr L cant easily access the benefits 
he had previously, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that this change has caused 
Mr L financial hardship.
I know theres a fee for this card, and Mr L wont now be able to use it in the same 
way. He is, however, still using it, so I dont think I can assume hell no longer want 
the card. That must be a decision for Mr L himself. However, I do think its 
reasonable for Creation to have said it would only refund Mr Ls annual fee if he 
closed his account. I dont think Creation has to provide Mr L with a card and refund 
the fee, if Mr L does decide he wants to keep using it.
So I havent been able to see that something has gone wrong here, in the parts of 
whats happened that Creation is responsible for.
Creation is not, though, responsible for all the information which is held on Mr Ls 
credit file. I understand why Mr L thinks this must be wrong, given what hes told us 
about his overall financial situation. I can see our investigator suggested Mr L might 
want to look at his credit file himself. Thats what I would also suggest, when 
someones concerned about the content of the file. Mr L can check the information on 
his credit file, and if that does require amendment, he can discuss that with the 
relevant CRA.
I understand just how disappointing Mr L will find this, but I dont think that this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Creation said it was happy with my provisional decision, and it had nothing to add.
Mr L replied very quickly, to say that he wasnt happy with my provisional decision. He 
wanted me to clarify the concept of financial hardship in relation to a credit card. He said he 
wasnt in hardship, he clears the balance of his credit card in full each month. 
Mr L wanted to stress the inconvenience the new limit caused him, as he now has to make 
several small payments each month to be able to use the card. He wanted to know how 
anyone could use a period covered by a pandemic as representative of his spending 
patterns when he couldnt stay away from home at the time. He said he could have 
increased his spending if Creation had warned him he needed to do so. 
Mr L asked how it was acceptable for him to be charged a fee for a card that he couldnt get 
the benefit from. He said Id assumed he was getting a benefit from the card, and he wasnt. 
Mr L wanted us to ask Creation what information he would need to provide to have his credit 
limit increased
Although our service doesnt normally write to people at this point, I was concerned that Mr 
Ls reply focussed on spending on the card, as the reason for the reduction in his credit limit. 
So I did write to Mr L then, to clarify the position.
I explained that my role in this case is to conduct a complete review, and Im not bound by 
any of the conclusions our service has reached previously. Here, Id reached a different 
view. I dont think Creation reduced Mr Ls credit limit because of the usage of his card. I 
think it was because of something on his credit file, which is what Creation originally told 
him. I encouraged Mr L to access his file. 
I also said that I didnt think it would be appropriate for us to seek to intervene now to raise 
Mr Ls limit back to its previous level. And I noted that our services website does have 
further information on what constitutes financial difficulties, but like Mr L, I dont consider this 
is relevant here.
Mr L then sent us a copy of his credit file. He said there were no grounds for the severity of 
the credit limit reduction by Creation. He said the only issue he could see was two missed 
payments on a hire purchase agreement, which he said were a mistake. Mr L explained the 
circumstances behind this, and said he was seeking to have these removed. 
Mr L said I was now focusing on his credit rating, but I continued to refer to his spending in 
the previous six months to suggest a new limit of £500 was appropriate, without accepting 
that hed spent less then because of the pandemic. He said he had no choice now but to 
stay under the limit. That didnt mean his limit was appropriate. He repeated that he was 
making multiple payments onto the card each month to stay under the limit. 
Mr L also said that this card is no longer available to new customers, so he couldnt cancel 
and reapply in future. 
Mr L said he would now accept a different settlement. He needs to spend £10,000 per year 
to get the benefit of the card, so he would be happy with an initial credit limit of £1,500. He 
wanted Creation to agree to review his creditworthiness so he could work back towards his 
old credit limit. And he wanted the fee refunded for this year because he couldnt meet the 
spending target to get the benefit in this year. Mr L said that if Creation wouldnt do that, he 
thought it would be because it was trying to force existing customers off this card.Mr L also objected to me saying that Creation had handled this as should be expected. He 
said the size of the cut was disproportionate. He thought Creations story had changed (with 
the reason for the reduction changing from credit rating to spend). He said Creation couldnt 
evidence its decision or set a context as to where he sits in the credit status of its customer 
base when he had an above average credit rating. He said it had reset his credit limit based 
on a completely unfair and erroneous sample of spending in a pandemic. And it had given 
him no right of appeal, unlike other cards he held which had reduced the limits. 
Mr L said that Creation might not have to give him a card, but he had been its customer for 
over five years, with no missed payments, and it had already taken his annual fee before it 
reduced the limit. 
Mr L was very angry, he said it was no resolution for me to say the only options were either 
to cancel a card he couldnt reapply for, or to keep the card and be ripped off by Creation. 
Mr L also shared with us negative reviews of Creation which he sourced from the internet. 
He sent evidence that hes making multiple small payments each month, to stay under the 
newly reduced limit. And he said he still needed to spend almost half of the required amount 
to qualify for the annual bonus on the card, in a little over three months.
I understand that Mr L is very upset by my decision. He has hoped that our service would 
intervene to restore his previous credit limit. But Ive explained why its not appropriate for 
our service to engage with Creation in the way that Mr L wants. 
Mr L referred to a number of points in my provisional decision. In that decision, the section 
titled What happened sets out the history of the case before it came to me. I noted there 
the view our investigator had reached. But I havent agreed with that view. 
I dont think that Creation ever changed its story. It has always said, to Mr L and to us, that it 
reduced Mr Ls credit limit because of something on his credit file. It looks to me as if our 
investigator offered Mr L a different explanation because he had misunderstood what 
Creation said. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Creation made its decision for any 
reason other than the one it gave us. And that also means I dont think Creation is trying to 
force Mr L off this card for reasons to do with the profitability of this card.
Mr L has told us that there couldnt be anything wrong with his credit file, because nothing 
had changed. Hes now sent us the file, and there are missed payment markers there, for a 
hire purchase account. Those are dated September and October 2020. 
Creation reduced Mr Ls credit limit in December 2020. Regularly scheduled credit reporting 
from companies usually appears on someones credit file several weeks after the month of 
the report, so the change to Mr Ls credit limit happened at the same time as I would expect 
Creation to have become aware of the second missed payment marker.
Having seen these, Mr L says these markers were a mistake, and I understand that hes 
asked the relevant business to remove them. I noted in my provisional decision that Creation 
isnt responsible for everything which appears on Mr Ls credit file. So if these markers were 
a mistake, thats not Creations fault.
Mr L doesnt think that Creations response was proportionate, and says hes had no 
difficulty getting credit elsewhere. But Ive explained that, generally speaking, its for the 
business making the lending to decide on the amount of lending it wants to make, and the 
risk it wants to accept. And here, I wont require Creation to take a bigger risk than its 
prepared to accept. So I havent reached the view that the credit limit reduction was the right move for Creation 
to take, or that this new limit is acceptable for Mr L based on his recent spending, or indeed 
on anything else. Thats just not a decision for me to make. Its for Creation to decide this. 
Mr L has confirmed that this change didnt cause him any financial hardship. So, as long as 
lending remains responsible, its my view that the amount its prepared to lend Mr L is simply 
a matter for Creation. In the same way that it doesnt have to continue to offer Mr L this card, 
it doesnt have to continue to offer the same amount of lending to Mr L. And because the 
amount of lending here is essentially a decision for Creation, it also doesnt have to give Mr 
L a right of appeal against any reduction.
Mr Ls limit was reduced in December 2020. The annual fee was charged in March 2021. So 
this happened well after, not before, Mr Ls limit was reduced. I know Mr L had complained 
before the fee was charged, but I still dont think its unreasonable for Creation to charge for 
a card which carries an annual fee, and which Mr L continued to use. 
I havent assumed Mr L is getting a benefit from his card. I said that I wouldnt presume to 
make a decision for Mr L as to whether he wanted to keep this card, or not. This remains a 
choice for him to make.
Mr L has recently told us that the company which had placed negative markers on his credit 
file has agreed to remove these. Once this action is completed, Mr L may then wish to ask 
Creation to review its lending to him. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I wont tell it to 
do so now.
I know that Mr L will be disappointed, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman