DRN-3859969
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt fit for purpose.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS in October 2019 to acquire a used 
car. At the time of acquisition, the car was over three years old and had been driven just 
over 40,000 miles.
Mr M says that driving the car home from collection he noticed issues with the multimedia 
interface (MMI) and that the clutch was temperamental. He contacted the retailer and after 
an initial visit to the retailer he was told to take the car to another garage for repair. Mr M 
says that the clutch couldnt be repaired at that time and a health check was undertaken on 
the car. At this point Mr M say she was told the car wasnt safe to drive due to wear on the 
underside suspension arms and brushes. He says that given the limited time he had had the 
car and his mileage this issue was present at the point of supply and so the car wasnt fit for 
purpose.
VWFS says Mr M raised concerns about his MMI screen freezing in January 2020 and a 
software update was carried out to rectify this. Further issues were raised, and the car was 
booked in for inspection in February 2020, but Mr M wasnt happy with the courtesy car that 
was provided and so the car wasnt collected. It says Mr M didnt then make alternative 
arrangements for the inspection with the retailer. It says that even though the issues with the 
clutch and front brushes hadnt been confirmed it offered for Mr Ms agreement to be 
voluntarily terminated but Mr M didnt agree to this. VWFS says that Mr Ms monthly 
payments were collected between April and August 2020, but he made an indemnity claim 
on these payments and his agreement went into arrears. The September and October 
payments were returned due to the payment instruction being cancelled. VWFS says several 
letters were issued regarding the arrears on Mr Ms account but as the situation wasnt 
rectified Mr Ms agreement was terminated in October 2020.
Mr M said that the courtesy car provided in February 2020 was unsuitable for his needs and 
after this he tried to contact the retailer with no success.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said the health check carried out three months 
after Mr M acquired the car and after he had driven around 1,500 miles, stated the lower arm 
brushes needed immediate attention. He thought this showed the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. He noted the reasons why the inspection didnt take place in 
February 2020, but he thought VWFS could have done more to assist at this time. He 
acknowledged the timing, being at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, but thought VWFS 
could have done more to follow up with Mr M. He said that as he didnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality, the remedy would most likely be rejection but noted Mr Ms desire to 
keep the car. Because of this he asked VWFS to reconsider its position and either allow the 
rejection of the car with Mr M being liable for the 6,000 miles of usage or for the car to be 
repaired and the agreement reinstated.
VWFS said that the agreement was terminated due to non-payment. It said that the car had 
been taken for a software update and a health check was completed following which the 
retailer arranged to collect the car and have it inspected. It reiterated the collection didnt 
happen because Mr M rejected the courtesy vehicle which it said was provided at the 
discretion of the retailer. It reiterated that the issues with the clutch and front brushes werent 
confirmed. It said that if it was to re-instate the agreement Mr M would need to pay in excess 
of £6,000 in arrears for missed payments. It thought the best outcome was for the car to be 
collected and sold to reduce Mr Ms liability.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
I agreed with our investigator that, on balance, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. Mr M noticed issues with the clutch and the MMI on collection of 
the car. The issue with the clutch wasnt resolved and while I noted Mr Ms comments 
about this, I also noted that I didnt have evidence confirming this fault. The MMI was 
confirmed to be faulty suggesting the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply. In 
cases such as this an acceptable remedy can be for the fault to be repaired and as 
the issue with the MMI was rectified I accepted this was a reasonable resolution.
When the car was taken for repairs a health check was carried out. The report dated 
January 2020 stated that the registration plates were damaged / poor  illegally 
spaced and that the lower arm brushes were worn with the rear brush coming out of 
its casing. As this check took place only three months after Mr M acquired the car - 
and he had only driven around 1,500 miles - I thought it reasonable to accept that the 
issues with the lower arm brushes were present at the point of supply. Without further 
details of the registration plate issues I couldnt comment on those further.
The car was due to be investigated by the retailer in February 2020. This didnt 
happen due to issues with the courtesy car. I agreed that VWFS wasnt required to 
provide a courtesy car and that this was an arrangement with the retailer, but I could 
also see why Mr M didnt allow the car to be taken when a courtesy car had been 
agreed and the one provided didnt meet his needs. Unfortunately, another inspection 
wasnt then arranged and with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic arranging this 
became difficult. Mr M said he tried to make contact, but his calls werent responded 
to. As VWFS was aware of the issue with Mr Ms car I thought it could have done 
more to assist Mr M at that time. This didnt happen and Mr M then stopped making 
his payments and the agreement was terminated.
VWFS gave Mr M warning about the termination of the agreement and it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to maintain his payments even while he was in dispute about the car, 
but as I found the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply I upheld his complaint.
I considered the appropriate remedy to this situation and thought Mr M should be 
allowed to reject the car. I noted the comments about wishing to keep the car but 
given the circumstances on his account and that the agreement was terminated due 
to missed payments I didnt think this was a reasonable remedy at this time.
I said that VWFS should:
1. Collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
2. Terminate the agreement with nothing further to pay;3. Refund the deposit paid;
4. Refund any payment made from the time the car wasnt able to be used.
5. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.
In regard to point 4 above, I noted that Mr M said that when the issues with the lower 
arm brushes were identified he was told the car was unsafe. However, he continued 
to make use of the car (mileage increased to around 46,000 miles). Mr M said he 
used the car for a while thinking the issues would be resolved quickly but he stopped 
when he realised this wasnt the situation. The car then went into storage and he 
used hire cars and borrowed a car from a family member. Therefore, in this case I 
thought it reasonable that the payments Mr M made until March 2020 were retained 
by VWFS, but that Mr M wasnt liable for any payments beyond this time.
Mr M paid for hire cars however as I wasnt holding him liable for any payments 
beyond March 2020, I didnt expect VWFS to cover the cost of hire cars as well.
Mr M has also said the car had to be put into storage as there wasnt space for it to 
be kept at this home while not in use. I found these costs should also be refunded.
Following my provisional decision, Mr M provided an invoice showing the costs of having his 
car transported to and from storage and 115 weeks of storage facility to be £7,968. This was 
presented to VWFS which said the storage charge was very high and it thought Mr M should 
have surrendered the vehicle after the termination of his agreement rather than put it in 
storage and claim the storage costs from VWFS. It said Mr Ms actions meant it suffered a 
double loss as it wasnt able to recover the vehicle and re-sell it and it was being asked to 
pay storage costs.
VWFS also noted that the invoice was from a company that was linked to Mr M.
I issued a second provisional decision to address the issue of the storage charges. 
Mr M explained that he wasnt able to keep the car at this home once he started to 
need to use other vehicles. We would expect the consumer to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the car is well looked after while a resolution is being investigated. In this 
case Mr M had the car transported to a storage facility. I found this showed he took 
reasonable steps to ensure the car was well looked after.
The storage facility was provided by a family member. I understood why VWFS 
raised this, but I didnt find that it made a difference regarding the outcome. The 
facility was provided, a VAT invoice was supplied and as we were not disputing that 
the car was kept at the storage facility, and therefore taking space, I thought it is 
reasonable that charges were applied. Mr M had said this was the cheapest and 
most flexible approach available to him. 
I noted VWFS comments that a signed contract should be provided but I found that 
the invoice already supplied was sufficient evidence of the transport and storage 
costs incurred. I did however find it reasonable that Mr M provide proof of payment 
before any refund was provided.
While I found that storage costs should be refunded, I also considered the comments 
by VWFS about it suffering both the cost of not having the car returned and the 
additional storage costs. Mr Ms agreement was terminated on 23 October 2020. 
While I appreciated that Mr M was in dispute about the car at this time and for an extended period after, by this time he had received VWFS final response and 
therefore I thought it would have been reasonable to have considered at this point 
the return of the vehicle. This would have mitigated his ongoing costs of storing the 
car and also enabled the sale price at that time to be secured.
Therefore, in regard to the storage costs, I thought Mr M should be refunded the cost for the 
weeks from when the car went into storage until end October 2020 (to allow for time to bring 
the car out of storage) as well as the cost of transporting the car to and from the storage 
facility. This would be equivalent to 20 weeks of storage costs plus the £200 transport costs. 
I calculated this amount to be £1,584 (inclusive of VAT).
I didnt receive any new information in response to my second provisional decision and so 
my conclusions haven changed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a decision I consider each complaint on its individual merits. I take relevant 
regulations into account, but my decision is based on what I find fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of the complaint. Where the evidence provided is incomplete or 
contradictory, I will make my decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I 
consider most likely to have happened given the information provided and wider 
circumstances.
In this case I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and so I 
have recommended action to be taken as a result of this. I have further considered the issue 
of the storage costs and while I agree that these should, in part, be covered, I also think that 
Mr M was required to take action to mitigate the costs and based on this I think storage costs 
for 20 weeks should be refunded.
Putting things right
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
1. Collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
2. The agreement has been terminated and so any outstanding balance should be 
cleared.
3. Refund the deposit paid by Mr M;
4. Only hold Mr M liable for payments up to March 2020 and waive all other payments;
5. Refund storage costs of £1,584, subject to Mr M providing proof of payment.
6. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.
Items 3 and 5 are subject to interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Limited Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman