DRN-2919099
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr S visited a Barclays branch in February 2021. He says that he was harassed by staff to 
declare the nature of the transaction he was undertaking which breached his personal data. 
And after explaining what type of transaction he needed, he wasnt allowed to use the 
counter service. He feels that Barclays staff discriminated against him. So, he complained to 
Barclays.
Barclays said:
It had been reducing the number of customers using its counter service in order to 
adhere to social distancing measures in place as a result of the pandemic; 
It asked all customers attending the branch about the nature of their transaction so it 
could direct them appropriately to the most suitable way of completing it; 
Only customers needing a service that couldnt be completed using an alternative 
service were allowed in branch to use the counter service; 
It didnt agree that it had done anything wrong; 
Mr S had acted inappropriately towards its staff. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In 
summary, he felt Barclays had put procedures in place to protect its customers and staff due 
to the pandemic and that these procedures applied to all customers.  
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised what happened here, Mr S has provided this service with 
comprehensive details of the course of events. While that has proved helpful, I should 
explain that I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont feel its necessary 
in order to come to fair and impartial decision. Thats not to say I havent considered 
everything hes said  I have. But its just that I dont need to comment on each individual 
point in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable.
Having considered everything, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator. I 
acknowledge that Mr S will be disappointed, so I will explain why.  
I can understand it would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr S not to be allowed
to complete his transaction using the counter-service in branch as that is his preferred 
choice. But I have to balance that against guidelines given by the regulator and impact of the 
pandemic on Barclays ability to operate as normal. 
As the investigator explained in detail  as a result of the pandemic, the regulator issued 
guidance to banks that said customers should only visit branches when absolutely 
necessary. And that alternatives - like online and telephone banking or self-service 
machines, should be used instead. 
So, I dont think Barclays decision to limit branch access was unreasonable in the 
circumstances - it was in-line with the guidance and I think its reasonable to say it was 
seeking to protect customers and staff during extremely unusual trading conditions.
It follows that I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it asked Mr S details of the 
transaction he needed to complete. I appreciate Mr S feels this was a breach of his personal 
data. But Barclays would have needed this information to determine whether using the 
counter service was absolutely necessary or if an alternative service was available. And Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that Mr S personal data has been compromised as a result of 
being asked questions in this way. 
I note Mr S has said other customers were allowed in branch to use the counter service. But 
as explained above, the counter service was available but only for those customers who 
were unable to complete their transaction via an alternative service. As I understand it, Mr S 
could have completed his transaction using a self-service machine. So, I dont think Barclays 
did anything wrong when it asked Mr S to complete his transaction using the self-service 
machine as I consider this to be a reasonable alternative. 
As far as how the conversation went with the members of Barclays staff, obviously its
difficult for me to comment on this as I wasnt there. And the evidence from both parties is 
inconsistent. I know Mr S feels that Barclays should have CCTV, and this would have 
confirmed what happened. But Barclays says CCTV is not available. In any event, even if 
CCTV had been available, I think its most unlikely that it would have confirmed exactly what 
was said as branch CCTV generally only records pictures not sound. 
That said, from the evidence thats been presented to me, Im satisfied there was a 
disagreement in the branch. Barclays was endeavouring to operate within the safety 
guidelines it had been given, while Mr S felt he should have been able to do his banking 
using the service of his choice without being questioned. While I accept this disagreement 
might have become heated. Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that Barclays 
treated Mr S unfairly given the wider circumstances at the time these events happened. 
I can see that Mr S feels Barclays has discriminated against him. But Ive not seen anything 
that would make me think Barclays treated Mr S any differently from other customers when 
considering the regulators guidance and taking into account that not all Barclays customers 
would have been able to complete their transactions by alternative means. 
Thats not to say Mr S wasnt inconvenienced by the fact he couldnt complete his 
transaction as he wished. But I think its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its 
important that this is taken into account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable 
to impartially resolve a complaint. And here, while Mr S has suffered some inconvenience as 
he wasnt able to complete his transaction using the counter service, Im satisfied this was 
unavoidable due to the problems caused by the pandemic. 
I acknowledge that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision  his correspondence makes 
his strength of feeling on the matter clear. But, for the above reasons, I wont be asking 
Barclays to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman