DRN-3684034
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible to have agreed 
credit for him. 
Mr B has brought his complaint via a claims management company but, for simplicity, I will 
refer to him throughout. 
What happened
MML provided Mr B with three loans, one in February 2016, another in August 2016 and a 
final loan in May 2017. I understand that Mr B had also taken out an earlier loan with MML 
but this isnt included in my decision. Ive summarised some of the information MML 
provided about the loans I am considering in the table below.
Loan Start date End date Principal Weekly / 
Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repayable
A 06/02/2016 08/08/2016 £800 £95.12 / 
£23.7812 £1,141.44
B 08/08/2016 02/05/2017 £1,000 £118.90 / 
£29.7312 £1,426.80
C 02/05/2017 Outstanding £1,000 £116.31 / 
£29.0818 £2,093.58
These were log book loans, in other words they granted on the basis that Mr B provided 
MML with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if he didnt make his loan repayments 
MML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of his vehicle. 
I understand that Mr B made his payments for Loans A and B on time and repaid both early 
with some of the capital from the following loan. Mr B missed payments on his third loan in 
January, February and March 2018. He made increased payments from April but none from 
July 2018 onwards. He began making monthly payments of £11 from January 2019, which 
stopped in December. Mr B resumed payments in February 2021 but there is an outstanding 
balance.
Mr B said that MML didnt carry out affordability checks before lending to him and so was 
unaware that he wouldnt be able to meet the repayments. He also said that MML didnt 
have enough information to make an informed lending decision.  
MML doesnt agree that it was irresponsible to have lent to Mr B and says that it carried out 
a detailed assessment of his circumstances before agreeing each loan. It says it asked him 
for proof of income and discussed his expenditure in detail with him. 
MML says that it checked Mr Bs credit file and saw that there were four defaulted accounts 
recorded. However, these were over four years old at the time of Loan A and so it 
considered these to be historic and didnt take them into account in its decision to lend. MML 
also said that it wasnt unusual for its customers to have some adverse information on their 
credit files.  MML also says that Mr B made all his payments on time until his circumstances 
changed when he was made redundant. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. They found that MML had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Mr B 
and it didnt find anything that should have caused concern. They concluded that MML 
wasnt irresponsible to lend to Mr B. Mr B didnt accept this recommendation and asked for 
his complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MML will be aware of the relevant rules and regulations, so I will summarise its obligations. 
Before agreeing credit for Mr B, MML needed to check that he could afford to meet his 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of his usual means without having to borrow 
further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The 
checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and to Mr Bs circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that MML needed to pay due regard to Mr Bs interests 
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this requirement as 
targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by 
virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
Having considered everything, I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for him and I hope the following clearly explains how Ive 
reached my decision. 
MML carried out an affordability assessment for each loan. For Loan A, it verified Mr Bs 
income via payslips and checked his credit file. It discussed Mr Bs expenses with him in 
some detail. For example, Mr B had given a figure for his rent of £400, but nothing for bills 
and he explained that he paid the rent and his wife paid the bills. MML recorded Mr Bs net 
monthly income as £1,334 and his expenses as £1,017. This included credit card payments 
of £174 and token payments he was making to two accounts. Mr Bs credit file showed he 
had defaults of about £1,100 from 2011 and 2012. He had a county court judgement of £556 
awarded in November 2013 and a delinquent account from March 2015. 
For Loan B, MML recorded Mr Bs net monthly income as £1,814 and his total expenses as 
£1,321. This included payments to existing debt, both actual and estimated, of £269. MML 
checked Mr Bs credit file again and it seems his debt situation hadnt changed since his first 
loan. 
Bearing in mind that Mr B could potentially lose his car if he was unable to meet his 
repayments over the loan term, I think MML was right to ask Mr B to verify some of the 
information he provided. I think MML took reasonable steps to verify Mr Bs income and his 
existing credit commitments. From the information Ive seen the loan repayments would 
have appeared affordable for Mr B and they were not so high relative to his income that 
there was a clear risk he wouldnt be able to meet them over the loan term while meeting his 
other commitments. 
While there were some indicators of financial difficulty in the information MML gathered, 
most were several years old and not in themselves indicative of current financial difficulty. MML had asked Mr B about his debts in detail, and hed said at the time of Loan B that he 
planned to clear the arrears on his delinquent account over the next two months. 
Altogether, I dont think the amount or management of Mr Bs existing debts would have 
caused concern for MML to the extent that it should have declined to lend to him or carried 
out further investigation before doing so. Agreeing these loans meant Mr B would likely need 
to spend about 20% of his net monthly income repaying debts and I dont think this would 
have given MML cause for concern. As mentioned above, Mr B met his payments for these 
loans on time. 
MML recorded Mr Bs net monthly income as £1,897 when he applied for Loan C. It recorded 
his expenses as £1,409, including debt repayments of £282. I dont know if Mr B did pay off 
his delinquent account. Again, it would seem that the loan payments would be affordable for 
him and his total debt repayments wouldnt take up more than about 20% of his income. 
However, Mr B had taken on more debt since his previous loan. MMLs assessment records 
that he had another credit card and three active unsecured loans, which appear to be short 
term loans. MML noted in its assessment that Mr B had gone over his limit with one of his 
overdrafts. 
MML said it carried out a credit file check but hasnt provided a copy of Mr Bs credit file from 
the time. Mr B hasnt provided a copy of his credit file either so I dont know exactly what 
information MML relied on. Nevertheless, this was Mr Bs third loan in 15 months and his 
second refinance. This pattern of borrowing, along with his short term borrowing, ought to 
have prompted MML to consider that Mr B might have been having current money problems, 
raising the risk of him not being able to meet his repayments for a third loan in a sustainable 
manner.
Mr B has provided me with copies of his bank statements so Ive reviewed these. I can see 
that he was repaying four short term loans when MML agreed to lend to him again. However, 
it also seems that he would have been able to afford the repayments and I havent seen 
anything which contradicts the information he gave MML about his income and expenses. 
I understand that Mr B missed payments on his loan and fell into arrears in 2018. However, if 
MML had looked into his finances in more depth when he applied for a third loan, I dont 
think it would have declined to lend to him. Taking everything into account, I have come to 
the conclusion that MML wasnt irresponsible to have agreed a third loan for Mr B. 
I would remind MML of its obligations to treat Mr B fairly and with due consideration and 
forbearance. This would likely include coming to an agreed affordable repayment plan with 
him for the balance, if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Mobile Money 
Limited and so dont require it to pay him compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman