DRN-3907996
The complaint
Miss F complains that 2Plan Wealth Management Limited (2Plan) advised her to make a 
contribution to her personal pension plan which led to an Annual Allowance (AA) tax charge. 
What happened
Miss F met with her 2Plan adviser in August 2020. She said shed asked for advice on 
retirement planning, not specific pension planning, as she wanted to review her income 
requirements in retirement. At the time of the advice, Miss F was 51 and employed.
Miss F had been a member of her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), which 
was closing. It was being replaced with a group personal pension scheme. Miss F had built 
up both final salary and Care Average benefits in the OPS. She also had a personal pension 
with a provider Ill refer to as provider A. 
I understand that the adviser completed a fact find on 11 August 2020. This identified that 
Miss F was a member of the OPS. And also that she had a personal pension with provider 
A. The fact find also assessed Miss Fs existing assets, her net disposable income and her 
attitude to risk. This was assessed as Balanced Aggressive. The fact find recorded that Miss 
F had joined her OPS on 31 March 1994, and gave the date of leaving her employer as 6 
April 2019.  
The adviser issued a suitability report on 26 August 2020. This listed her objectives in 
relation to her retirement planning needs as:
- She wanted to retire at 65 
- She wanted an additional pension provision of £77 each month. And a capital lump 
sum from her pension of £6,920.
- She could contribute a personal single payment of £25,000 gross.
The suitability letter recommended that Miss F made a single additional contribution of 
£25,000 gross to her existing personal pension plan with provider A. The adviser also 
recommended how the money should be invested. The charge for the initial advice was 
noted as 3% on all payments, so £750.
In her application form for the £25,000 contribution, which she signed on 14 September 
2020, Miss F asked for the initial 3% adviser charge to be deducted from the plan. She also 
agreed to ongoing adviser charges of 1% each year to be deducted from the plan. 
Miss F made the recommended contribution to her pension plan. But then received an AA 
tax charge of £10,000 on that contribution. This was because the annual accruals of her 
OPS had already used up her entire AA.
On 26 May 2022, Miss F raised a complaint with 2Plan about the advice. She said that the 
recommendation had failed to take account of the total Pension Input Amount (PIA) that had 
already built up within her OPS for the 2020/2021 tax year. She said shed told the adviser 
her membership of the OPS would cease on 31 August 2020, but that still meant shed 
accrued 5 months worth of benefits within the OPS. She said the adviser had also failed to 
consider her new employer-sponsored group personal pension scheme, which had started 
on 1 September 2020.
Miss F also made the following complaint points:
- The suitability letter hadnt referenced the AA. She felt this showed there was a lack 
of knowledge about her OPS. And that if the adviser had checked, her OPS wouldve 
confirmed that her accrual for the Pension Input Period (PIP) ending 31 March 2021 
wouldve exceeded the AA. Therefore such a check wouldve shown that any 
additional contributions to a personal pension would further exceed the AA. Miss F 
also said that she had no unused AA to carry forward. And that this could also have 
been easily confirmed if her OPS had been correctly contacted at the time of the 
advice. 
- In not correctly requesting the information from her OPS, the advisers 
recommendation had increased Miss Fs income tax liability by £10,000. This was 
because the £25,000 personal pension contribution had been added to Miss Fs 
income for tax purposes and taxed at 40%. She felt that if the adviser had obtained 
the relevant information from her OPS, the best advice wouldve been to top up her 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), as the entire proceeds and future income would 
then be tax free, whereas only 25% of the pension was potentially tax free.
Miss F therefore felt that 2Plan should compensate her £10,000 plus the statutory rate of 
interest used by this service. She also wanted it to refund the £750 adviser fee.
Miss F sent 2Plan evidence to support her complaint. This included a Pensions Savings 
Statement from her OPS for her 2020/2021 pension accrual. And details of her past years 
accruals. After a request from 2Plan, Miss F also provided a letter from her accountant to 
confirm she had incurred a £10,000 tax charge in respect of the £25,000 pension 
contribution its adviser had recommended. 
2Plan issued its final response to the complaint on 29 July 2022. It acknowledged that it had 
found no evidence that its adviser had contacted Miss Fs OPS before making his 
recommendation for her to make the additional pension contribution of £25,000 gross. It 
upheld this point of the complaint, and offered Miss F £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused her.
2Plan said that it understood that the £10,000 tax charge was going to be repaid through the 
scheme pays option. It said that the £20,000 net pension contribution Miss F had wanted to 
pay wouldve attracted tax relief of 20% at source to cover basic rate tax relief. But that, in 
due course, Miss Fs accountant wouldve requested a further 20% tax relief when 
calculating her tax return for the 2020/2021 tax year, given she was a higher rate taxpayer. 
Therefore, in the end, Miss F wouldve received £10,000 in tax relief. So the £10,000 AA tax 
charge, was simply a repayment of the tax relief that shouldnt have applied to the 
contribution. It therefore felt that Miss F didnt have an additional tax liability. And didnt 
uphold that part of the complaint. 
2Plan also said that the adviser had noted that Miss Fs priority at the time of the advice was 
retirement planning by way of tax efficient pension contributions. It felt that this wouldve 
discounted considering other options such as an ISAs.
Unhappy with this response, Miss F brought her complaint to this service. She said that if 
shed been aware of exceeding her AA she wouldve invested the money in an ISA account. She said shed elected to pay the £10,000 AA tax charge through her OPSs scheme pays 
option, which meant that her benefits were reduced. For her complaint to be resolved, she 
either wanted compensation equivalent to the £10,000 tax charge, or the reinstatement of 
her OPS benefits, plus further compensation for the error. 
Our investigator asked Miss F to confirm why shed chosen to pay the tax charge through 
her OPSs scheme pays, rather than through provider A. She also asked Miss F for more 
information about her ISA.
Miss F said that provider A hadnt given her the option to make a scheme pays election. But 
she also said that she would question why anyone would want to pay the AA tax charge from 
a personal pension, rather than an OPS. She said the issue wasnt about which scheme paid 
the tax charge, but that it wouldnt have been triggered if shed received the correct advice. 
Miss F also said that if shed been advised that she had no further headroom to save into a 
pension, she wouldve paid £20,000 into an Investment ISA, either in that tax year or the one 
following. She felt that the adviser shouldve also considered ISAs as a viable retirement 
investment. Miss F provided a copy of her ISA savings book which showed that £20,000 had 
been paid in October 2020. And a further £20,000 had been paid in February 2022. 
2Plan said that it understood that Miss Fs accountant couldve elected to use the scheme 
pays option with either the OPS or provider A. It said that if the payment had been taken 
from the pension with provider A, there wouldve been no impact on Miss Fs OPS pension. 
2Plan also said that if the £10,000 AA tax charge had been taken from the pension with 
provider A, it wouldve simply been a repayment of tax relief that shouldnt have applied to 
the pension contribution in the first place because of the pension accruals in Miss Fs OPS. 
2Plan also felt that as her OPS pension had been overfunded for the last four years, Miss F 
wouldve potentially been aware at the time of the advice that any additional pension 
contributions would potentially create an implication. So it felt that if Miss Fs OPS had been 
impacted, this was the responsibility of her accountant for electing the OPS scheme pays 
option rather than the provider A scheme pays option. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Miss Fs main 
objective had been to provide an additional pension fund that could be accessed before her 
OPS benefits. And that as she paid the full ISA allowance into a cash ISA in the 2020/2021 
tax year, shed used up her ISA allowance in the tax year of the advice. She also felt that 
Miss F couldve elected the scheme pays option with provider A. And that if she had, this 
wouldve left her in the correct position, as she wasnt entitled to further tax relief. Our 
investigator felt that the £500 compensation 2Plan had offered Miss F for the trouble and 
upset it had caused was reasonable. 
Miss F didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
Shed asked for advice on retirement planning, not pension planning. She felt that the 
adviser shouldve looked at all available assets to generate her desired independent 
income. Miss F said the adviser didnt do this, as he didnt take account of her OPS 
benefits. She said she was certain that if he had, he wouldnt have recommended a 
personal pension contribution. 
Our investigator hadnt considered the adviser fees Miss F had paid. Miss F said that 
2Plans offer of £500 didnt allow for this either. She wanted it to be refunded, plus 
interest.In addition to a return of the adviser fees, Miss F felt that shed be put back into a 
neutral position if she was paid compensation equal to the 20% tax rate on the gross 
pension contribution. She said this was £4,000. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Miss F. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Its not in dispute that 2Plans adviser failed to consider Miss Fs pension accrual in the 
2020/2021 tax year, and its impact on her available AA. 2Plan has acknowledged that 
theres no evidence its adviser contacted Miss Fs OPS before making his recommendation 
about the additional £25,000 gross pension contribution. It upheld this part of Miss Fs 
complaint and offered her £500 for the distress and inconvenience itd caused her.
What is in dispute is whether the £500 compensation 2Plan offered Miss F is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. 2Plan said that if the £10,000 AA tax charge had been 
taken from the pension with provider A, Miss F would simply have repaid the tax relief she 
wasnt eligible for in the first place. 
2Plan also said that Miss F couldve chosen to use the scheme pays option with provider A. 
And that if she had, there wouldve been no impact on her OPS pension. 
Miss Fs position is that she derived no tax benefits from the advice whatsoever. And that the 
£25,000 gross investment was now locked into an arrangement which was less tax efficient 
than an ISA. So she doesnt feel that 2Plans offer of £500 compensation returns her to the 
position she wouldve been in if her funds had been invested in an ISA, or other alternative 
capital accumulation product, instead. 
Miss F also said that she felt taking the scheme pays option through her OPS made more 
sense for her. She felt it would take until around her 80th birthday before the reduction in the 
gross OPS pension had repaid the tax paid through scheme pays. Therefore if she didnt live 
that long, she wouldnt have paid all the tax herself, as the OPS wouldve subsidised it. 
Miss F felt that if shed paid the AA tax charge through the scheme pays option with a 
personal pension provider, it wouldve instantly reduced that pension value from that point 
on, and therefore restricted future investment growth. She felt she wouldve probably been 
far worse off as a result. She also still felt that shed never been given the option to pay the 
tax charge through her pension with provider A. 
I first considered the advice fees Miss F paid, and whether they should be returned to her.
Advice fees
Miss F thinks that 2Plan should refund the £750 fee she paid for the initial advice, plus 
interest.
The suitability letter stated that Miss F asked the adviser to only review her retirement 
planning. So the adviser stated hed not reviewed any other area. The fact find recorded that Miss F had joined her OPS on 31 March 1994, and gave the date 
of leaving her employer as 6 April 2019. And the suitability letter stated that Miss F had told 
the adviser that her OPS was closing and that further accrual wouldnt take place. She would 
have full benefits in her old scheme. And would join the new employer scheme.  
Miss F told this service that retirement planning isnt product specific, and that the adviser 
shouldve offered an holistic service that looked at all available assets to generate her 
desired independent income. She said the adviser didnt do this, as he didnt take account of 
her OPS benefits. She believed that if he had, he wouldnt have recommended a personal 
pension contribution. 
From what Ive seen, although I agree that the adviser shouldve asked for detailed 
information about Miss Fs OPS benefits, the information hed gathered appears to show that 
thered been no OPS accrual since April 2019. 
Ive thought about what advice mightve been given if the adviser had gathered the relevant 
information on Miss Fs OPS benefits. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss Fs main objective at the time of the 
advice was to provide an additional income that she could access before she took the 
benefits from her OPS. As Miss F noted, it was retirement income she was looking for, not 
specifically pension income, so I agree that her adviser couldve also considered advising 
her to invest in an ISA. But I cant see that an ISA was considered at the time of the advice.
However, the fact find showed that Miss F had significant net disposable income and cash 
savings, which meant she had scope to make a £25,000 gross investment and also use her 
full £20,000 ISA allowance in the 2020/2021 tax year. Miss F has shared information with 
this service that showed that in addition to using her full ISA allowance in the 2020/2021 tax 
year, shed also used her full ISA allowance in the 2019/2020 and the 2021/2022 tax year.
Given Miss Fs previous pension build up had led to her having no pension carry forward, 
and given that she had already breached the AA before she approached 2Plan for retirement 
advice, Im not aware of any tax-efficient pension-specific product that 2Plans adviser 
couldve recommended to her.
But given Miss F had also already used, or planned to use, her full ISA entitlement, there 
was also no additional scope for the adviser to have instead recommended that she invest in 
an ISA. Ive also been unable to identify any other more tax-efficient investments that 
couldve been recommended instead.
Based on Miss Fs main objective to increase her retirement income, Im therefore 
persuaded that even if the adviser had obtained the relevant pension information from her 
OPS, he would still have recommended that she invested the £25,000 gross into a personal 
pension. I acknowledge this wouldnt have gained Miss F any tax benefits, but I consider that 
such a recommendation would have met her main objective of increasing her retirement 
income.  
Therefore, although I know this will disappoint Miss F, I dont consider that 2Plan should 
refund the advice fee it charged her. I say this because I consider that the advice wouldve 
been the same even if 2Plans adviser had acted correctly. And because, on balance, I 
consider that Miss F would still have taken that advice, even though she wouldnt benefit 
from any tax relief, given her main objective, and the fact that she had excess disposable 
income to invest. 
I next considered Miss Fs complaint that the advisers recommendation had increased her income tax liability. 
Did the advice increase Miss Fs tax liability?
Miss Fs original complaint was that 2Plans advice had increased her tax liability by 
£10,000, so she wanted it to refund her that amount. 
However, she has since told this service that if the adviser had recommended the correct 
alternative investment, she wouldnt have to pay basic rate tax on the proceeds of that 
investment. She said this was because 75% of the personal pension fund would be liable to 
income tax, which in her case would be 20%. 
Miss F felt that in order to return her to the tax neutral position she wouldve been in if the 
funds had been invested in an ISA, or other alternative capital accumulation product, 2Plan 
should pay her compensation equal to the 20% tax rate on the gross pension contribution, 
which was £4,000. 
As I noted above, Im not aware of any alternative tax-efficient investment available to Miss F 
at the time of the advice. Because of her OPS pension benefits, she had no AA left. And she 
used her full ISA allowance. Therefore I dont agree that her tax neutral position wouldve 
been as she stated, because Miss F had no eligibility for the tax-efficient investment 
products she said she wouldve chosen if shed been correctly advised. 
As Ive seen no evidence that Miss F had additional eligibility for other tax-efficient 
investment products, I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint.
I also considered whether Miss F couldve paid her AA tax charge through her pension with 
provider A.  I acknowledge that Miss F said that she was never given the opportunity to do 
so.
My understanding is that Miss F couldve elected to repay the AA tax charge through her 
personal pension with provider A. Had she done so, her OPS benefits wouldnt have been 
reduced. Instead, the £10,000 tax relief Miss F wouldve received, but not been eligible for, 
wouldve been repaid through the AA tax charge, leaving Miss F in the correct position, given 
her circumstances. Although I acknowledge that Miss F had reasons for choosing to elect to 
use scheme pays through her OPS, I cant fairly hold 2Plan responsible for the impact that 
decision had on her OPS benefits. 
Miss F has clearly suffered from a loss of expectation here. She expected to gain some tax-
efficiency from her investment, based on what the adviser told her. But that wasnt correct 
given shed already built-up pension benefits worth more than the AA in that tax year. I 
consider that the £500 compensation 2Plan offered for its error is fair and reasonable for that 
loss of expectation. I dont require it to amend its offer. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman