DRN-1995948
The complaint
Mr C says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy was added to 
Mr Cs credit card account at the same time as he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was never told about PPI, it was added behind his back. But I think MBNA 
made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I say this because 
the application form included the options to select or decline PPI with equal prominence, 
and Mr C indicated that he wanted it. Ive thought about his comments carefully, but 
Mr C applied by post so had no direct contact with MBNA at the time of the sale. And I 
havent found any evidence to support his claim that it was added behind his back. I can 
understand he might not remember selecting PPI given the time since the sale.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think Mr C would have bought 
the policy even if better information had been provided. I say this because Mr C had 
limited ways to make his credit card repayments if he lost his job or was sick. Hes told 
us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no savings or other insurances.
I note Mr Cs comment that he lost his job in late 1999/early 2000 without notice and didnt 
work until 2001. This does not affect my analysis of the sale as he was employed at the time 
of the sale and so eligible for the policy. He might be able to retrospectively make an 
unemployment claim but would need to contact the bank or the insurer directly to investigate 
this.
Overall, I dont think Mr C has lost out as a result of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman