DRN-3246976
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Q, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined its 
applications for a Bounce Back Loan and unfairly inhibited its account. 
Qs director, Mrs W, brings the complaint on its behalf. Mrs W is herself represented by Mr K 
but, for ease, Ill only refer to Mrs W throughout. 
What happened
In May 2020, Q applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan. Shortly afterwards, in June, the 
application was declined because HSBC said Q didnt meet its criteria.
  
In July, Qs directorship changed. Around the same time, HSBC to carry out a review of its 
relationship with Q and  while the review took place  a temporary block was applied to Qs 
account. HSBC required Mrs W to provide some identification documents before the block 
could be lifted.
 
Mrs W became the director with significant control of Q in August and, in an attempt to lift the 
suspension of Qs account, she sent her identification documents to an HSBC branch via a 
third party. But when she called to chase an update, Mrs W was told the bank had no record 
of her documentation ever being received.
 
In any case, HSBC said it wouldnt have been able to accept Mrs Ws documentation without 
her being present. So, to resolve things, the bank asked her to visit a branch as soon as she 
reasonably could.
 
The block on Qs account was lifted in September after Mrs W had completed HSBCs 
identification checks. But Mrs W remained unhappy with how the bank had handled Qs 
Bounce Back Loan application and the suspension of its account. So, on behalf of Q, she 
complained.
In response, HSBC set out that it had declined the Bounce Back Loan application because Q 
didnt meet its criteria. And it said it hadnt made an error in temporarily blocking Qs account 
while it carried out a review.
 
Mrs W remained unhappy, so she brought Qs complaint to our service. In summary, she felt 
Q had been treated unfairly  and that it had been prevented from accessing support during 
the pandemic. While Qs complaint was with our service it had made a further application for 
a Bounce Back Loan in March 2021, but this had also been unsuccessful.
An investigator here reviewed what had happened  but she didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she said:
Qs applications for a Bounce Back Loan had failed the checks that HSBC had 
conducted as required under the rules of the Scheme. 
Looking at the information HSBC had reviewed when assessing Qs applications, she 
thought the banks decisions were reasonable. 
HSBC had suspended Qs accounts in line with the terms and conditions, which was 
a decision it was entitled to make.
Q didnt accept our investigators view. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Qs Bounce Back Loan applications
The Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules set out that the decision to lend ultimately lied with the 
lender. In reaching that decision, certain checks had to be carried out before a loan was 
provided.
 
Applications were subject to customer fraud, anti-money laundering and 
Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal and regulatory 
requirement, which were necessary under the Scheme rules.
HSBC has explained that Qs initial application was declined because it failed those checks. 
Qs later application was declined too and, having looked at the information HSBC 
considered, I think the banks decision was reasonable.
 
I appreciate that Mrs W is frustrated by the relative lack of detail HSBC provided about its 
decision to decline Qs applications. And I know that Q has provided evidence which shows 
that it was trading, so it feels that it shouldve been accepted for a Bounce Back Loan. But 
the bank isnt required to share any more information than it already has. And I dont think it 
would be appropriate for me to require that it do so, predominantly because information 
about how banks reach such decisions are subject to some legitimate confidentiality.
 
What I can do here is reassure Mrs W that Ive considered why HSBC declined Qs 
applications, and Im satisfied that the bank made reasonable decisions based on the 
information it had available.
 
The block on Qs account
HSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Alongside these obligations, banks are required to keep accounts 
and their use under review. From time to time, a bank may need to suspend access or 
services in order to do so. The terms and conditions of Qs accounts allowed HSBC to 
suspend its services. And the bank has explained that it did so in order to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was the case.
 
I understand why Mrs W felt this was unfair. Particularly given no further action was deemed 
necessary following HSBCs review. But even so, the bank must take its regulatory 
obligations seriously  and I dont think there was anything unreasonable in HSBC checking 
Mrs Ws identification documents.
 
Its true to say that the suspension of Qs account lasted longer than might have been 
necessary. But I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that, given Mrs W didnt attend the branch with her documents for some time. So, overall, it follows that I dont think HSBC 
suspended Qs account unreasonably  or that it prolonged the suspension unnecessarily.
 
Qs other complaints
Im aware that Mrs W had some other issues which she, on behalf of Q, wanted to complain 
about. Ive noted Mrs W is unhappy about the delay in receiving recordings of telephone 
calls and other information shed requested from HSBC. And shes also believes the bank 
has broken data protection rules.
  
Our investigator correctly explained that these issues would need to be raised as a separate 
complaint. So, it wouldnt be right for me to address them here. And if Mrs W is still unhappy 
about these points, she would need to refer them to HSBC in the first instance as a 
complaint and give the bank the opportunity to investigate and  if appropriate  put things 
right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman