DRN-4513907
The complaint
Mr M complains about the price charged by Wakam to renew his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M received a quote to renew his policy which he says was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year. So, Mr M complained about the price quoted. 
Wakam responded and explained they regularly update their prices to make sure their 
policies are fairly and correctly priced, so theres enough money in the pot for when 
customers need it. They explained rising vet costs are a big reason for their general price 
increases  and this applies to all customers. They said every pets risk will also change 
each year. They explained the most common reason why pet insurance will increase every 
year is the pet becomes a year older. They said Mr Ms pet dogs breed affected the price as 
well as the claims made by Mr M. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought Wakam hadnt treated Mr M unfairly 
in relation to the pricing. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr M paid a premium of £627.39 in 2022 but then received a quote for £1,252.78 
in 2023. This is almost 100% more than what Mr M paid the year before. So, I understand 
why Mr M is concerned about the price increase. Wakam have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ms price increase was calculated. 
Im afraid I cant share this with Mr M because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And, Im satisfied the price Mr M has been charged has been calculated correctly 
and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Wakam customers in Mr Ms position will 
have been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Wakams risk model, but I can see 
two main factors for the price increase relate to Mr Ms claims history and his pets age. 
Where claims have been made against a policy, its not unusual or uncommon for this to be 
taken into account when an insurer is pricing a policy and for it to affect the price. In this 
case, Ive seen how this impacted the price, so I cant say Wakam have treated Mr M unfairly 
in applying any ratings and loadings to account for this. Another factor which has impacted 
the price is Mr Ms pets age. In the renewal invite, Wakam explain pets require more 
medical care as they get older  so customers can expect their insurance to cost more as 
their pet gets older. Again, Ive seen how this impacted price so I cant say theyve treated 
Mr M unfairly in taking this into account.    
Mr M may feel this is unfair, particularly as he says the cover is the same as last years. But 
its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to 
attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an 
insurer offering a higher premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a 
cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to 
risk. The same applies to ratings  its for an insurer to decide what risk ratings they take into 
account as well as the loadings they decide to apply. 
I do appreciate Mr M will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he feels theres a lack of transparency around the price increases. 
Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will often 
be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Wakam have acted unreasonably in not providing 
the detail requested by Mr M. 
I can see Mr M queries how the pricing structure can be deemed fair when our service hasnt 
seen evidence of it being applied to other policies. Mr M says Wakam can provide a pricing 
structure which corroborates his price increase, and until our service can see the same 
pricing structure has been applied to other polices, it cant be said that this is a consistent 
pricing structure and not a structure which was applied to his policy alone. I do acknowledge 
Mr Ms concern, and I think its important to explain how pricing works. When an insurer 
rates a policy, for example, for the purposes of pet insurance as in this case, theyll take into 
account a range of factors. Its expected, and reasonable, to take the view that all policies 
wont have the same risk profile, as this is dependent on the risk being presented. For 
example, I can see the loading that has been applied to Mr Ms policy due to his claims 
history. Its likely the risk profile and loading will differ from another customer who hasnt 
made any claims, or perhaps has made more. So, there will be some fluctuation in ratings 
and loadings as this is dependent on the risk being presented. 
I would also add, nothing Ive seen shows the pricing calculation was inaccurate when rating 
Mr Ms policy. And nothing Ive seen suggests there has been any loading applied to Mr Ms 
policy which wouldnt have been applied to any other customers policy in the same 
circumstances. I acknowledge Mr M queries how the information provided by Wakam proves 
theyve applied the same pricing structure and loadings to other customers in the same 
circumstances. Ive seen no evidence which suggests Mr Ms policy was priced completely 
manually and without any application of Wakams pricing structure or algorithm. In addition 
to this, Ive seen the increase in loadings to Mr Ms policy are consistent with the areas 
Wakam have described in the renewal invite as being factors which affect the price  this 
being the pets age, claims history and claims inflation.        
I understand why Mr M has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from Wakam. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr M 
unfairly. I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman