DRN-3828302
The complaint
Mr N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not fairly compensate him 
after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card. 
I know Mr N had complained about two RBS credit cards. Just to be clear that this decision 
is about the policy sold alongside the Mastercard only. A separate decision will be issued 
about the second card. 
What happened
Mr N complained to RBS about the sale of PPI in August 2019. RBS agreed it had mis-sold 
PPI and it offered to pay £2,254.89 to compensate him for that mis-sale. It said Mr N had 
paid for PPI between 8 July 1999 and 8 September 2019. The start date of the PPI policy 
was said to be 1 July 1999. 
Mr N didnt accept RBSs offer and so he complained to this service. He said he thought hed 
taken PPI out in 1978 and RBS offer didnt cover the whole period hed had a PPI policy. He 
said RBS hadnt paid him any statutory interest. After he complained to this service, RBS 
paid £2,262.85 into his bank account without giving prior notice it planned to do so. 
Our adjudicator looked at the issues raised by Mr N, but he didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. Mr N disagreed with that view. He then found a credit card statement showing 
that hed paid a PPI premium of £6.54 in September 1999. 
In light of the statement provided by Mr N, another of our adjudicators asked RBS to 
recalculate its offer. Upon doing so, RBS calculated that Mr N was owed a further £442.42. 
Our adjudicator thought this further offer was fair. 
Mr N did not agree with that view and so the matter was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. So that means I dont have to look at what 
happened at the point of sale. Im looking at whether Mr N has been fairly compensated for 
that mis-sale. 
I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied the offer RBS made in 
respect of the Mastercard is fair. Ill explain why below. 
The first thing for me to decide is the date from which RBSs offer of compensation should 
be paid. 
RBS told us that the PPI started on Mr Ns account on 1 July 1999 and the date he was first 
billed for the policy was 8 July 1999. Mr N disputes these dates and believes PPI was sold to 
him at the same time he took the card out in the 1970s. 
I know Mr N feels strongly that the PPI was sold to him much earlier than July 1999. But the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest thats the case. RBS doesnt have statement data in Mr 
Ns case before May 2001. What that means is that it cant tell us exactly what Mr N spent 
on his credit card every month before that date. But its electronic systems do show 
separately that the policy started on 1 July 1999. The statement Mr N sent to us showing 
payment of PPI was from September 1999  which is after the start date RBS told us about. 
Mr N was of the view that RBS only provided a screenshot to this service showing the PPI 
started in July after our adjudicator sent it his statement from September 1999. However, I 
can see from our file that the screenshot was initially sent to this service in March 2022  so 
before RBS was provided with a copy of Mr Ns statement from September 1999. 
In the absence of any documentation to the contrary, I am satisfied that I should treat the 
PPI policy as starting on 1 July 1999 and the first PPI premium as billed on 8 July 1999. 
On that basis, Ive next considered whether the compensation RBS offered to Mr N was fair. 
In calculating compensation, as far as it is possible to do so, I would expect RBS to return Mr 
N to the position he would have been in if PPI had never been sold to him in the first place. 
What that means in practice is that RBS needs to work out how much Mr N would have 
owed on his credit card if PPI hadnt been added to it. To do this, it would need to remove all 
the PPI premiums along with any fees and interest he paid because of the PPI. If there were 
months when Mr N would have cleared his credit card balance, then RBS would need to pay 
8% simple interest on the extra PPI Mr N paid. 
Ive seen a copy of the most recent full calculation of compensation RBS undertook. As I 
said above, apart from the statement Mr N provided from September 1999, RBS doesnt 
have any statement data before May 2001. So, to calculate Mr Ns compensation, it had to 
make some assumptions. I can see that RBS assumed Mr Ns balance gradually increased 
from July 1999 up to September 1999 and that it gradually decreased from the known 
balance of £915.54 in September 1999 to the next known balance of £51.05 in June 2001. In 
the absence of any further actual data from either party, Im satisfied this approach is fair. 
RBS then calculated that Mr N had paid £1,565 in total for PPI. It worked out that hed paid 
an additional £26.69 in card interest because of the PPI premiums. Mr N told us that he 
usually cleared most of his balance in full every month, so it isnt surprising that he didnt pay 
a significant amount of card interest because of the PPI. RBS then calculated a net figure of 
£1,122.06, which was 8% simple interest to compensate Mr N for the periods when his card 
account would have been in credit but for the PPI. 
RBS had already paid £2,262.85 to Mr N. And so at the time it recalculated the 
compensation, Mr N was owed a further £442.42. I understand this amount has not yet been 
paid to Mr N. If that is the case and Mr N accepts my decision, RBS will need to update the 
8% simple interest up to the date Mr N gets that money back. 
I appreciate Mr N was unhappy because RBS paid him £2,262.85 directly into his bank 
account before he had accepted its decision. But I cant say hes lost out in any way because 
RBS paid him like that, so I dont need to tell it to take any further action in that regard. 
With all this in mind then, Im satisfied RBS offered to fairly compensate Mr N for mis-selling 
PPI. As I said above, it will need to update the offer of 8% simple interest if the additional 
amount of £442.42 if it has not yet been paid and if Mr N accepts my decision.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman