DRN-3947501
The complaint
Mrs P complains ClearBank Limited took too long to return money to her on her Tide 
account held with it. She says this resulted in significant distress and inconvenience and 
shed like to be compensated for what happened.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, inviting both parties to respond with any 
comments and evidence before the deadline. A copy of my provisional decision is below. 
What happened
On 1 April 2022, ClearBank placed a block on Mrs Ps account so that it could undertake a 
review. It asked Mrs P some questions and requested supporting documentation about 
some payments. She answered the questions but didnt provide all the information that was 
needed, so ClearBank requested this again. Mrs P told ClearBank that she didnt want to 
provide additional information.
Mrs P didnt feel ClearBanks review team were doing enough to progress things quickly and 
so raised a complaint. She said shed been contacting it regularly for news, explaining she 
really needed the money on her account (which was just over £550) to live. 
ClearBank issued a final response on the complaint on 22 April. It accepted there had been 
shortcomings on its part in failing to respond to a number of messages Mrs P had sent. To 
reflect the inconvenience caused it paid her £100. In the meantime, it said it would also 
contact its review team to see if it could conclude the review.
Mrs P says she still hadnt had any update about the review. She told ClearBank that shed 
spent the compensation on essential groceries and had no other available funds. She asked 
if it could close her account instead. 
On 2 May, ClearBank contacted Mrs P to tell her that it would be closing her account and if 
she could send it an up-to-date statement of another account, it would arrange to return the 
account balance to her. Mrs P provided her account statement the following day. But says 
that despite this and a number of messages explaining she was in financial difficulty and 
needed her money urgently, it wasnt until 13 May when ClearBank eventually sent these 
back.
ClearBank explained it needed to complete its processes to close the account, which 
unfortunately took time. So, it didnt think it had made any additional errors here. 
One of our investigators considered everything that had happened alongside the information 
ClearBank had provided. He recommended the complaint be upheld. In summary, he said 
ClearBank hadnt done enough to help Mrs P despite her telling it about her situation. He 
was satisfied this had led to some further distress and inconvenience. So, in addition to the 
£100 it had previously paid he felt it should pay a further £100 to reflect the impact of the 
ongoing issues.
ClearBank accepted the investigators view, agreeing to pay the additional £100 but Mrs P 
didnt think this went far enough. She said not having her money when ClearBank knew she 
really needed it had affected her wellbeing and meant she couldnt do things with her 
children. 
The investigator didnt change his mind, so Mrs P asked that her case be passed to an 
ombudsman for decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs P doesnt appear to dispute ClearBank wasnt entitled to review her account. Her 
complaint is that it took too long to return funds when she desperately needed them and 
about the effect this had. ClearBank also accepted the investigators recommendation that it 
pay additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in not providing 
assistance, given Mrs Ps situation at the time. So, it seems to me the only remaining issue 
for me to decide is what level of compensation would fairly resolve the complaint. 
Mrs P told ClearBank she was grateful for the £100 it had given her in response to her initial 
complaint. But to note that payment was in recognition of the poor service shed received 
earlier. For clarity, I think Clear Banks response at this point was reasonable. This £100 in 
my view fairly reflected the impact of the customer service (or the lack of) during early to 
mid-part of April.
However, by the end of April, Mrs P outlined her financial situation once more. She told 
ClearBank that she was down to having nothing, so she really needed her money. In further 
communications after ClearBank agreed to close the account, Mrs P indicated that she 
couldnt provide food and that her bills were bouncing. She added that shed had to borrow 
£20 from a family member to get by. Much like our investigator said, I think these were all 
indicators that ClearBank needed to do something to expedite the return of her funds, having 
already agreed on 2 May that it would reimburse her. But ClearBank couldnt give Mrs P any 
timescales other than say she was a priority. Eventually it appears to have stopped 
responding. Ive included these details because I think theyre relevant in understanding the 
degree of distress and inconvenience Mrs P was experiencing. 
In my view, this was significantly more than annoyance and frustration. Indeed, Mrs P was 
extremely worried and anxious about how shed manage. And the lack of intervention over a 
number of days would in my view have only heightened her distress. Our awards for 
compensation arent punitive but should reflect the impact. Thinking about these factors I 
think £200 fairly reflects this. For the avoidance of doubt, this £200 is in addition to the £100 
that ClearBank previously paid when it issued its final response. So, this would be £300 
compensation for the overall complaint. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require ClearBank 
Limited to make a further payment of £200 directly to Mrs P to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Again, for clarity this payment is in addition to the £100 previously 
paid.Mrs P responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision. ClearBank didnt think 
£200 was fair. 
It said a review of this type takes time and is dependent on the member co-operating. 
However, Ms P didnt provide the information that was requested which added to the delay. 
It didnt think it could have done any more to get the money to her before, as it needed to 
complete its processes. That said, it accepted it hadnt provided a good level of service to 
Mrs P but thats what £100 reflected. It wanted these other factors taken into consideration.  
The case was returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what ClearBank has said. I dont think theres any dispute that ClearBank 
wasnt entitled to conduct a review and I reflected in the provisional decision (when setting 
out what had happened) that Mrs P didnt provide supporting documentation when she was 
initially contacted. But beyond that there were other things happening. Mrs P told ClearBank 
in mid-April and early May that her financial situation was critical. She didnt have any money 
and therefore needed access to her funds. ClearBank has said it couldnt have paid the 
funds until 13 May, as there were extra steps that needed to be completed. I thank it for 
clarifying this and acknowledge what it's said. But I still think it should have done more to 
help. 
Mrs Ps messages clearly showed that she was struggling. She mentioned her mental health 
and asked that someone call her. But from the online chat messages I cant see anyone 
intervened with a call and explored what other help and assistance could be provided, even 
if it couldnt give her account balance back at the time. A lack of intervention only 
exacerbated Mrs Ps anxiety and distress.
However, it seems to me that ClearBank has accepted the service wasnt good enough. So, 
while noting all of the above factors, the fundamental issue here is assessing the impact of 
the shortcomings on Mrs P. I explained why I thought an additional £200 (separate to the 
£100 paid in April) was fair considering the impact. Ive not seen anything persuasive in 
ClearBanks response that makes me think the award should be less than what I proposed.  
So, Ive no reason to change my provisional decision that it should pay an additional £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require ClearBank Limited to make a 
further payment of £200 directly to Mrs P to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
For clarity this payment is in addition to the £100 previously paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman