DRN-2684099
The complaint
Miss S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, didnt tell 
her it had recorded a default on her credit file. She wants the default removed. Miss S also 
complains that Cashplus didnt send her a replacement card when she requested one  and 
that it shouldnt have agreed to do so when her account was in default.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out by our 
investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Cashplus had tried to contact Miss S to discuss the balance on her account on many 
occasions and that it had sent her a default notice. She didnt think Cashplus should have 
agreed to replace her lost card, because the account had already been closed. But, because 
the account was closed, this didnt have any adverse impact on Miss S.
Miss S didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She never received any information from Cashplus to tell her the account would be 
defaulted. She did not receive any letters, emails or phone calls. If she had received 
contact from Cashplus, she would have made a payment.
Cashplus gave her incorrect information several times. She was told it hadnt recorded a 
default on her account when it had; she was told she could get a replacement card, 
when she couldnt; she was told the account was open, when it was closed. This 
misinformation has caused considerable distress and inconvenience and she should be 
compensated.
Our investigator did not listen to the call in May 2020 which is at the centre of this 
complaint. Shes relied on Cashpluss written notes of the call which may not reflect what 
was actually discussed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
I find Cashplus followed the correct procedure in registering the default. Its records show 
that it attempted to contact Miss S between September 2018 and February 2019. Miss S 
says she didnt receive any contact from Cashplus during this period. But it contacted her 
by several means  messages to Miss Ss members area, emails, SMS messages and 
many call attempts with 42 voicemails left. 
Miss S says she didnt receive any of this communication. She says Cashplus might not 
have had her correct contact details. Im satisfied that Cashplus contacted her using the 
contact information that shed provided. And, even if shed forgotten or been unable to let 
Cashplus know that her phone number had changed, I find it unlikely that none of its 
methods of contact were successful.
Miss S says shed lost her card, and, because of the automated system, it was extremely 
difficult to access her account. But, even if she couldnt access her account to read the 
messages sent to her members area, Cashplus had made contact by other means as 
noted above.
Cashplus has provided enough evidence to satisfy me that it sent Miss S a written 
default notice on 28 February 2019. This set out that a default would be recorded if she 
didnt make payment by 30 April 2019.
Miss S says she should have been told  when she called Cashplus on 13 May 2019  
that the account was in default. Cashplus hasnt been able to locate a recording of that 
call. And I understand why Miss S is so upset about this as she feels this call is at the 
centre of her complaint. But where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or 
contradictory I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
Ive taken into account Cashpluss notes of the call, which would have been made at the 
time, and Miss Ss recollection of what she was told. She says she wasnt told a default 
had been registered. And I dont doubt that. What I cant be sure of is whether she 
specifically asked Cashplus about this. Im not persuaded that this is something 
Cashplus needed to tell her  it had followed its procedures and it probably assumed 
Miss S was aware of the default. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, but I agree with our 
investigator  even if Cashplus had told Miss S that a default had been registered, it 
wouldnt change the overall outcome here. Thats because Ive already found that the 
default procedure was correctly followed.
I find that Cashplus did provide mis-information to Miss S on more than one occasion as 
summarised in the What happened section of this decision. And I understand why its 
been particularly frustrating for Miss S to be told by Cashplus  in its response to her 
complaint  that no default had been registered. This information was clearly wrong. But 
I dont think Cashplus has treated her unfairly by not offering to compensate her for this 
incorrect information. As noted by our investigator, this doesnt change the overall 
conclusion here  that the default was correctly registered, Cashplus sent written notice 
of the default, and it attempted to contact Miss S numerous times and by several means 
to give her the opportunity to discuss the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman