DRN-2173554
The complaint
Mr M complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly 
when lending to him. 
What happened
Between January 2016 and October 2019 Lending Stream provided Mr M with a total of 
eleven instalment loans. When they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be 
repaid in a set number of monthly repayments  although that hasnt happened in all cases. 
Heres a table setting out details of the loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest*
Repayment
1 03/01/2016 30/06/2016 6 £300.00 £134.40
2 24/04/2016 31/10/2016 6 £300.00 £206.40*
3 22/05/2016 22/02/2017 6 £120.00 £244.80*
4 11/07/2016 22/02/2017 6 £120.00 £212.28*
5 17/07/2016 22/02/2017 6 £60.00 £234.36*
6 03/09/2016 22/02/2017 6 £200.00 £255.43*
7 09/11/2016 22/02/2017 6 £170.00 £188.64*
2-year gap in borrowing 
from Lending Stream  
8 14/03/2019 01/10/2019 6 £400.00 £143.86
9 12/09/2019 outstanding 6 £90.00 £113.36*
10 20/09/2019 outstanding 6 £90.00 £144.48*
11 06/10/2019 outstanding 6 £220.00 £132.29*
*highest combined repayment (approximately) when loans overlap
Mr M mainly complained that that Lending Stream failed to carry out effective checks to see 
if he could afford these loans. He says that if an effective assessment been carried out each 
time he asked to borrow, then the loans wouldnt have been provided.  
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1 - 3 shouldnt have been lent. But he felt that by loan 4, proportionate checks would 
most likely have shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. And by loan 6, 
he said Mr Ms overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persisten tly reliant on 
short-term loans. So our adjudicator said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 4 -
 7 and he set out what he thought Lending Stream should do to put things right for Mr M. 
Our adjudicator felt that the two-year gap after Mr M had paid loan 7 and before he took out 
loan 8 meant it was reasonable for Lending Stream to assume that Mr M now had a new set 
of circumstances when he returned to Lending Stream for further borrowing. So our 
adjudicator treated loan 8 as the start of a new lending relationship when assessing if these 
loans were affordable and fairly lent to Mr M. And our adjudicator felt that overall, he hadnt 
seen enough to say it was unfair for Lending Stream to have provided loans 8  11.  
Lending Stream didnt respond to our adjudicators view or to a reminder letter and we 
didnt hear anything further from Mr M or his representatives. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Lending Stream what he normally spent each month. 
And Lending Stream also carried out some credit checks. 
Mr M didnt ask Lending Stream for any loans during the period February 2017  March 
2019. Like our adjudicator, I think that gap in lending seems long enough for Lending Stream 
reasonably to think that Mr M mightve put his finances in order during this period. This 
meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr M applied for loan 8, he was effectively 
starting over and it was fair for Lending Stream to treat this as a new chain of borrowing 
and assess his lending requests accordingly. So Ive looked at loans 1  7 and loans 8  11 
as two separate chains of lending.
loans 1  7
I agree with the adjudicator that, looking at the information Mr M told Lending Stream about 
his income and outgoings and what Lending Stream had recorded about his financial 
situation, it wasnt wrong for Lending Stream to give him loans 1-3. These loans all looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr M, based on what hed said to Lending Stream about his 
finances. 
It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for 
Lending Stream to agree to lend. As Mr M hasnt objected to our adjudicators 
recommendation in relation to these first three loans, I dont think that I need to say more 
about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 4. 
Although the loan looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr M gave (even on top of 
paying loans 2 and 3 at the same time), Lending Stream could see that it looked like Mr M 
was establishing a record of taking out new loans either before hed paid his previous loans 
or otherwise soon after repayment of a previous loan. Lending Stream shouldve realised 
this suggested he wasnt managing his finances in a well-planned way and that his 
borrowing record looked to be at odds with what hed told Lending Stream about his financial situation. I think his borrowing history shouldve prompted Lending Stream to carry out more 
thorough checks into his financial situation before agreeing to lend further.  
I think at this point Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to find out a bit more about his 
financial situation and, in particular, his other credit commitments. Lending Stream hasnt 
shown me it did this. So, I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing loan 4. 
Had Lending Stream looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances it would likely have seen that 
he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it wouldve learnt that Mr M had 
another short-term loan already outstanding with another lender when he asked Lending 
Stream for loan 4  as well as loans 2 and 3 still outstanding with Lending Stream.
So Lending Stream wouldve realised that it was reasonably likely Mr M would be using 
borrowed money to repay other short-term loans that were due.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think that it was likely Mr M 
would be able sustainably to repay loan 4  so it shouldnt have provided this loan, or any 
further loans in this chain of borrowing to him. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr M with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think by loan 6 Lending Stream should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Lending Stream ought to 
have realised:
Mr M was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. When he took out loan 6, 
Mr M had been paying Lending Stream loans for 8 months in a row. So I think 
Lending Stream shouldve realised that this record of borrowing indicated ongoing 
money problems. Although the loan amounts were variable, this pattern of borrowing 
doesnt suggest that Mr Ms finances were very stable. 
Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was 
borrowing further to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his 
finances rather than using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him 
manage a temporary cash flow problem. 
I think that Mr M lost out when Lending Stream provided loans 6 and 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
by now, the number of loans which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans. 
loans 8  11I agree with the adjudicator that, considering all the information Lending Stream had 
gathered about Mr Ms financial circumstances, it wasnt wrong for Lending Stream to give 
him loans 8 - 10. The figures Lending Stream was working with didnt suggest Mr M would 
be likely to find it difficult to afford the loans. And as Mr M was effectively starting a new 
chain of borrowing, I think the checks it did were enough for Lending Stream to agree to 
lend. 
But I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream to provide loan 11. 
The loan mightve looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr M gave. But Lending 
Stream could see that Mr M appeared to be repeating the same borrowing pattern as before 
- taking out overlapping loans and borrowing soon after clearing a previous loan. So, I think 
Lending Stream shouldve done more thorough checks into his financial situation before 
agreeing to lend further  at least to the extent of checking other credit Mr M had to pay for 
each month. Lending Stream hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried 
out a proportionate check before agreeing loan 11. 
And if Lending Stream had looked more closely into this, it wouldve likely found out that 
Mr M was already late making his repayments on another short-term loan outstanding with a 
different short-term lender when he asked Lending Stream for loan 11  as well as having 
loans 9 and 10 still outstanding with Lending Stream.
So Lending Stream couldve anticipated that it was reasonably likely Mr M would be using 
loan 11 to repay other borrowing hed taken out.
I dont think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to think that it was likely Mr M would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 11  so it shouldnt have provided this loan.
So overall, Im planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 4 through to 7 and 
loan 11.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither Mr M nor Lending Stream has sent me anything further.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what 
I have outlined below. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr M.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loans 4, 5 and 11. The overall 
pattern of lending of Mr Ms borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded 
about this loan, and the loans that followed in that chain, is adverse. So all entries 
about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman