DRN-2445988
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains about the amount offered by Society of Lloyd's in 
settlement of a claim on its commercial motor insurance policy.
A has been assisted in brining this complaint by its broker but for ease I will refer to A 
throughout.
What happened
One of As vehicles was damaged in an accident. A reported the incident to Lloyds but 
arranged for repairs to be done itself. Once the repairs had been done A then asked Lloyds 
to reimburse the repair costs of around £7,000.
Lloyds refused to pay the full amount claimed. It said a number of policy terms applied, 
including:
the most it would pay was the amount it would cost to have the repairs done by one 
of its approved repairers or as otherwise agreed in advance; 
it wouldnt pay for repairs that improved the condition of the vehicle to a better 
condition than it was in before the accident; and 
using a repairer that isnt approved, and where the repairs are done without its 
knowledge, may affect the amount of any settlement.
Lloyds said As repairer had replaced parts that could have been repaired and its own 
engineers estimated that a reasonable cost for having the vehicle repaired was much lower. 
Lloyds offered a payment of around £1,300.
A complained but Lloyds wouldnt change its decision so A brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator thought the offer from Lloyds was in line with the policy terms and 
was fair, since A had arranged for the repairs to be done without Lloyds consent and hadnt 
used one of Lloyds approved repairers. 
A disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes cover for damage to As vehicles and gives Lloyds the discretion to 
pay for the damage to be repaired;
pay an amount of cash to replace the lost or damaged item; or
replace the lost or damaged item.
There are conditions and exclusions that apply to any claim, which include the following:
the most that will be paid is the amount it would cost Lloyds to repair the vehicle at 
an approved repairer or as agreed by its appointed engineer;
A will not pay for repairs that improve the vehicles condition to a better condition 
than it was in before the accident; and
if repairs are done without Lloyds knowledge or consent this may affect that amount 
it will pay.
I think the policy terms are clear in setting out how repair claims will be settled and what may 
happen if the policyholder arranges the repairs themselves rather than through an approved 
repairer. And I think its reasonable for an insurer to say that, if the repairer was chosen by 
the consumer, the costs it will pay towards these repairs may be limited to what they would 
have paid to one of their approved repairers  provided the insurer shows it could have got 
the repairs at a lower price.
I understand A arranged the repairs itself so they might be done more quickly, meaning it 
could get the vehicle back on the road sooner. I appreciate why A might have wanted to do 
that. And I understand Lloyds had previously dealt with the repairer A used. But it wasnt 
one of its approved repairers. And the repairs were arranged without Lloyds knowledge or 
consent. 
Lloyds has shown that the repairs were reviewed by its own engineers. It also sought 
confirmation from another repairer and from the vehicle manufacturer as to the cost and 
extent of the works. Lloyds engineer and the other repairer both indicated that the parts in 
question were repairable and didnt need to be replaced, and the large difference in costs 
was due to those parts being replaced rather than repaired. And the figure Lloyds offered is 
based on what the engineers have said it would have cost to carry out the repairs.
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied Lloyds has shown its actions were reasonable 
and in line with the policy terms. It wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to pay a much higher 
amount in circumstances where it wasnt given the chance to deal with the repairs and, if it 
had been, the cost would have been lower.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman