DRN-2619026
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc failed to transfer a large sum of money, that he
wanted to use for investments. He said it gave him incorrect advice, which wasted lots of his 
time and meant he missed opportunities to invest.
What happened
Mr C said hed told Santander that he wanted to move a very large amount of money out of
his account on 28 February. He wanted to move a total of £130,000, that hed decided to
invest. He said Santander told him this wouldnt be a problem. But he wasnt able to move
the first amount of £60,000. He made smaller transactions, for £20,000 then £20,000. He
was then able to make a further smaller payment of £10,000 and two payments of smaller
amounts again, £5,000 then £4,999. Each time, larger payments had failed. Once hed made
the payment of £4,999, he couldnt transfer any more.
Mr C said Santander blamed this on the receiving bank, but the receiving bank said it didnt
have the money. He was passed back and forth until the receiving bank spent time
investigating this for him. It told him the problem was because he was making the payments
using a debit card, which would have a daily transaction limit.
Mr C said hed asked Santander to cover the losses of £2,494 that he had incurred because
he hadnt been able to move his money until later, when his proposed investments cost him
more. Santander said it wasnt responsible for the daily limit imposed by the card scheme
operator, whose symbol is on Mr Cs card. But Mr C said Santander was responsible for not
telling him about this limit.
Mr C told us that when he complained, Santander said it wanted to listen to the relevant
calls. It said after this that it hadnt been able to listen to them all, because a system error
meant they were no longer available. But Santander thought the failed transfers were the
fault of the card scheme operator, and it would only pay Mr C £30 in compensation.
Santander told our service that daily card limits are covered in its terms and conditions,
which allow it to refuse to make a payment if it exceeds any transactional limits that we
apply. Santander said it didnt have all the relevant calls, but it could see that Mr C said hed
been given incorrect information, and it was prepared largely to take his word about what
had happened. So it wanted to offer a further £100 on top of the £30 it had already paid.
Mr C said Santander had told him it had listened to the calls when it rang him back about his
complaint. He thought it was lying now when it said these were not available.
Mr C said that Santanders offer wasnt acceptable, and it hadnt agreed to amend its terms
to make the daily card limits clearer, which he felt it must do.
Mr C then got back in touch, to suggest we listened to the call where Santander had dealt
with his complaint, so we could see that it had initially said all the calls were available, and
had been listened to.
Our investigator asked Santander why it hadnt suggested that Mr C make the payments
through alternative means, such as a CHAPS payment. But Santander said that it looked as
if the account Mr C was paying into would only accept payments through card, cheque or
direct debit. So he couldnt have used a different payment option to move his money, and
still had his money arrive where he wanted it on the same day.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she hadnt been able
to listen to most of the calls Mr C had with Santander, because they were no longer
available. Shed listened to the one call from 28 February which was still available, and she
could hear that the call handler had told Mr C that there was a daily limit on card
transactions. She thought it was likely that Mr C hadnt been told this before he tried his
transactions, but she could hear he was then told this as soon as he experienced problems
with the first payment.
Our investigator said shed also listened to the recording from when Santander called Mr C
back about his complaint. That advisor had made clear that only one call from the previous
day had been available to listen to.
Our investigator said that stopping transactions when they exceed the limit is in line with the
terms and conditions of the account. The limit changes daily and its set by the card scheme
operator, not Santander. Santander has no control over this. And Santander didnt tell Mr C
what the limit was because it doesnt know.
Our investigator said that she thought Mr C probably wasnt told about any alternative
payment options. But she didnt think that wouldve changed what happened. The place that
Mr C wanted to send his money would only take payment by debit card, direct debit or a
cheque. So the other options Santander couldve explored wouldnt have helped. And using
either a direct debit or cheque wouldnt have got the money there on the same day. So there
was nothing else Santander couldve suggested to prevent the loss.
Our investigator said that Mr C would like Santander to change its operations to make
customers aware of the daily card transaction limit. But she said our service doesnt tell
businesses how to run, so she couldnt ask Santander to make changes to the way they
choose to communicate this information to customers in future.
Our investigator said she could understand why Mr C had found this very frustrating, hed
been told there wouldnt be a problem, and there had been. But even if Santander had given
him the correct information from the start, this payment couldnt have been made at the time
Mr C wanted. For that reason she thought Santanders offer of a total of £130 in
compensation was fair and reasonable, and in line with the outcome shed recommend.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that Santander hadnt told him about the restrictions on debit card
transactions. It had only told him to make smaller transactions, and said the receiving bank
was rejecting the payment. It was the receiving bank who told him about the limits, and he
then told Santander. He said this was only mentioned on the phone call we had because
hed told Santander about the problem before this. He said that he made at least five calls to
Santander, and the bank didnt seem to know what was going wrong until he mentioned this.
Our investigator said that even if everything had gone as it should, Mr C wouldnt have been
able to transfer all of the money on the same day. So she couldnt hold Santander
responsible for that loss. She still thought that a payment of £130 was enough for the
incorrect information Santander gave, and the trouble and upset that caused.
Mr C said he couldnt have made all the investments he wanted. But he said what was
happening meant he couldnt invest at all that day. He didnt find out what was wrong untilafter the closure of stock market trading. He couldve invested £50,000, so he said a
proportion of his losses should be attributed to Santander. He suggested a little under
£1,000.
Our investigator thought Mr C was told about the daily card limits on a much earlier call, and
also that some of his money was transferred in good time for him to invest that day. So she
didnt think Santander was to blame for losses if Mr C hadnt invested the money that did
reach his account. She didnt change her mind.
Mr C said that his recollection differed significantly from the phone conversation apparently
provided by Santander. He thought that the call we had listened to about transfers must be
from 3 March, not from the day that he was trying to make the transfer, 28 February. He said
hed asked for a transcript, but not received it. He set out again his understanding of the
timeline, and that his recollection was that limits imposed by his card issuer had never been
mentioned. Mr C then wrote again, to say that he was concerned that Santander may have
somehow abridged the call that it had sent us.
Because Mr C had a different recollection of the content of the call, and concerns around it, I
arranged for the two calls which were supplied to our service to be sent to him. Mr C then
commented further. He said that Santander tells those who ring that all calls are recorded. 
But it has lost his calls from 28 February.
Mr C also said that Santander had accepted, on the second call recording, that he was told
the receiving bank had rejected his attempted payment. He said he found it difficult to 
understand how Santander could accept this without having listened to the other calls. He 
thought this meant that other calls had been available. And he said hed requested a written 
response setting out the events of 28 February, which he didnt get.
On the first call, he said that he had recollection at any time of being advised by a Santander
representative that limits would be applied to card payments. and he said that if hed been
advised to try two payments of £30,000 he wouldve done so. But those werent the
transactions hed made. So Mr C said that either he did not understand the advice provided
or that the statement has been subsequently added to the recording. Mr C appears to be
arguing that the recording has been tampered with.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to ask 
Santander to do more than it had already offered to do. This is what I said then: 
Ive listened repeatedly to the first call that Mr C had with Santander. He said hed 
tried to transfer £60,000. I can see that a failed transfer for that amount was tried at 
11.31 on 28 February. I think that this call was made shortly after Mr C attempted 
that transfer.
Mr C said that he wouldve tried to send £30,000 if hed been advised to do that. But 
he wasnt told to use that exact figure. He was told repeatedly to make the payments 
smaller, with one reference to splitting £60,000 into two payments. Mr C then came 
off the phone, and made three smaller payments of £20,000 each, in quick 
succession. The first two of these, as set out above, were successful.Mr C appears to be suggesting that this recording has been tampered with in some 
way, to add a warning about the existence of payment limits imposed by his card 
scheme operator.
That is a very serious allegation, and I have seen no evidence to support it. 
Everything I have seen is consistent with this call having taken place just as I can 
hear it now, and Mr C simply not having placed much weight or importance at the 
time on the mention of his card scheme operator.
I dont think that this advice from Santander was as helpful as it could have been. Mr 
C was trying to make a payment of an exceptionally large amount. Whilst Santander 
did mention that there was a limit on daily payments imposed by the card scheme 
operator, the call handler also said that it shouldnt be a problem to transfer £130,000 
in one day if Mr C made his payments in smaller amounts.
The limit imposed by the card scheme operator is a daily total limit. Smaller individual
payments wont evade this limit. And, whilst I have no knowledge of the limits applied 
by the operator, other complaints I have seen about restrictions imposed by a card 
scheme operator have involved very much smaller amounts than the total Mr C 
wanted to transfer. If Mr C had been told that on this first call, he would have been 
saved a great deal of frustration.
I think that means that Santander does have to pay Mr C some compensation. But I 
dont agree with the amounts he has suggested. Before I explain why I think that, Id 
like to pause to deal with the points Mr C has made about the second call.
Mr C says that Santander couldnt have accepted, on the second call, that it had told 
him the receiving bank had rejected his transfer, unless it had listened to all the calls 
he made on 28 February. But I can hear that when Santander spoke to Mr C about 
his complaint, it was clear from the outset that it had a problem with calls on 28 
February. They hadnt been properly recorded. Santander has been entirely 
consistent about that.
On this second call recording, Santander explains to Mr C that, because it cant listen 
to these calls, it has accepted his version of events. And his version of events has 
always been that it was the receiving bank, not Santander, that told him he had 
probably fallen foul of daily transfer limits imposed by his card scheme issuer.
Again, I can see nothing at all to suggest that Santander has been dishonest about 
the availability of call recordings. I think its most likely that Santander has had, as it 
said, a problem with call recordings on 28 February.
Now Ill turn to the issue of compensation. Santander has paid Mr C £30, and has 
offered a further £100. I need to think about whether thats a fair and reasonable 
amount to make up for whats gone wrong here.
To do that, I need to think about what Santander is responsible for.
Mr C began by suggesting that his losses were a shade under £3,000. Our 
investigator has pointed out that there was no way for Mr C to transfer the full amount 
of £130,000 by the end of the business day on 28 February. Santander cant remove 
the daily card payment limits, and there was no other way to fund his investments 
that day. So he would never have had that amount available to invest.Mr C then suggested that Santander should bear a portion of his loss. He suggested 
just under £1,000.
Mr C didnt do any trading at all on 28 February. He thinks that he missed the 
opportunity to do that because he spent the whole day trying to sort out problems 
with the transfer.
I think that most of the money that Mr C initially said he lost was because he wanted 
to transfer more than the card scheme operators daily limit, and that was simply 
never going to be possible. I dont think Santander has to pay the full amount that Mr 
C initially asked for.
So the question is whether Santander, by not setting out clearly for Mr C what had 
gone wrong, should be held responsible for Mr C losing out on trading with the 
money he did have available?
I dont think it can reasonably be held responsible for that. I think this is a choice Mr 
C made. 
Mr C started trying to make transfers, with a successful transfer of £1 at 10.54. He 
had £45,000 transferred into his trading account before noon. He wanted significantly 
more than that. But by noon, he had also had a significant number of failed transfers. 
So it was clear by noon on 28 February that something was going wrong.
Mr C then chose to prioritise making the remaining transfers, rather than taking the 
time to make at least some of the investments he wanted with the money he did have 
available to him. Nothing he has said has made me think Santander had any input at 
all into that decision.
The smaller amount that Mr C later said he wanted Santander to pay was lost 
because Mr C chose to prioritise sorting out his transfers rather than investing the 
money that was available to him. Whilst I accept that the advice Mr C was given 
could certainly have been clearer, before noon it was clear that there was a problem, 
and Santander had told Mr C that there was a limit on daily transfers. I dont think 
Santander is responsible for the decisions that Mr C took after this.
For those reasons, I think that the offer Santander has made, of a further £100 in 
addition to the £30 it has already paid, is enough to provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I dont think Santander has yet paid that additional £100, 
so Ill award that now.
But in case it has made this payment, Ill allow Santander to offset against my award 
any money it has already paid for this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said it would, as it had previously offered, pay Mr C £100 if he wanted. Mr C sent 
a detailed reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made a number of detailed points. Ill deal with those each in turn. Mr C said that my provisional decision showed the telephone recording by Santander was 
timed at 11.31am on 28th February 2020. Mr C said he simply couldnt have made a call at 
this time because he was at a funeral between 10 and 1 that day. He said he could supply 
evidence of this if we wished. Mr C said he wasnt aware of any problems with his transfers 
until around 2.30 pm. 
The text Mr C refers to here says Ive listened repeatedly to the first call that Mr C had with 
Santander. He said hed tried to transfer £60,000. I can see that a failed transfer for that 
amount was tried at 11.31 on 28 February. I think that this call was made shortly after Mr C 
attempted that transfer.
Mr C took issue with this being described as his first call. I think its clear that I simply meant 
that this is the first of the two recordings we have. But Im sorry if Mr C thought I was saying 
something different here. That wasnt my intention.
There is no time stamp on the call I have. I thought that it was made shortly after 11.31 
because thats when Mr C attempted a transfer of the amount discussed in this call, and he 
said on the call that hed recently attempted this. The recording of this call lasts for two 
minutes and one second. 
I can also see that Mr C made further transfers of smaller amounts, as suggested on the call, 
between 11.37 and 11.39. And I note that in his original complaint to our service, Mr C told 
us when hed made the first transfer. He said later in the morning of the 28th I attempted to 
make the first part of the payment. That fits with the times I can see for the transfers.
Mr C now says that he wasnt aware of the problem with some transfers failing until 2.30pm. 
But thats not consistent with the evidence Ive seen, of repeated transfer attempts between 
11.37 and 11.39 for progressively smaller amounts. This evidence appears to me to have 
been taken directly from Santanders internal banking system. So I think its very unlikely that 
the timings shown there are inaccurate. 
I understand that Mr C has told us he had the sad duty of attending a funeral that day, and 
he says that means he couldnt have made this call between 10 and 1. I think that also 
means he couldnt have made the transfers he did. But I have explained that this doesnt fit 
with Mr Cs earlier evidence to us, and it doesnt fit with the evidence that Santander has 
sent us. Given the nature of the evidence from Santander, that is, in my view, very unlikely to 
be wrong. So I havent changed my mind about when I think this call was made.
Mr C said that Id overlooked that he had previously sought, and obtained, reassurance from 
Santander that there would be no problem with a large transfer. So the mistake he says it 
made on an earlier call, when it said that a very large amount could be transferred, was the 
second time it had given him the wrong information about this. 
Mr C said if Santander had told him the first time he contacted it, days earlier, there was a 
limit on debit card payments each day, he could have put alternative arrangements in place. 
 
I note that there is no reference to this earlier conversation in Mr Cs complaint form, where 
he said I firstly contacted the Santander Bank in the early morning of the 28th February 
2020 to advise the bank that I intended to make bank payments on this day of substantial 
amounts of approximately £130,000. Nor is there any reference to this earlier conversation 
in Mr Cs reply to our investigators explanation that she didnt think Mr C could have got the 
money to the account he wanted to fund, on 28 February. I think that its most likely that if that was Mr Cs recollection at the time, that he wouldve 
raised this earlier, in particular that he wouldve mentioned it when our investigator explained 
why she thought that Santander couldnt be responsible for all of the losses he mentioned. 
I understand that this may now be Mr Cs recollection of what happened. But I think that the 
recollections Mr C had closer to the time are more likely to be accurate. I dont think its likely 
that this earlier call was made by Mr C, and produced the reassurance that hes told us 
about now. 
Mr C said Id also made a mistake about the initial payment attempted. He said that was for 
£130,000, not £60,000. 
When Mr C complained to our service, he said that he spoke to Santander, then later in 
the morning of the 28th I attempted to make the first part of the payment of £60,000 only to 
find that the transfer was not accepted. So Mr Cs initial complaint referred to the first failed 
transfer as an amount of £60,000, not £130,000. 
The first transfer I can see on 28 February was for £1, so it appears that Mr C was taking the 
sensible precaution of making a small payment to check that cleared, and arrived safely. 
Then the next payment was for £60,000, not £130,000. The information sent to me by 
Santander includes failed payments as well as successful ones. It doesnt include any 
attempt to pay £130,000. 
Because of this, I still think its most likely that Mr Cs first significant transfer attempt was for 
£60,000.
Mr C said that the reason partial investments were not completed is because he spent every 
minute of the afternoon in telephone conversation with either Santander or the bank 
managing the account he wanted to transfer to. He wanted our service to contact that bank, 
to listen to the calls he had with it. 
I dont think that would help in this case. Even if I were able to see that Mr C had made the 
calls he refers to, it would still have been his choice to pursue transferring all of the money 
that he wanted to move, rather than to invest the money that had successfully transferred. 
Ive said that I dont think Santander is responsible for that decision. 
Mr C then set out the order of payments as he recalls it, which he said started with first and 
second payments attempted for £130,000. He said the payments he then attempted varied 
from £60,000 (when he was advised to attempt a lower value) £50,000 (which he was 
advised to repeat then advised to go lower) £20,000 (which was successful) £20,000 (which 
was successful) £20,000 (which was unsuccessful and he was advised to go lower) and 
£10,000 (which was unsuccessful and he was advised to go lower).
Mr C appears to be suggesting that he rang Santander between each of the failed transfers 
set out above. But the records from Mr Cs account show that he made a slightly smaller 
number of transfer attempts, as set out right at the start of my decision. And the transfers 
and attempted transfers he made between 11:37 and 11:39 on 28 February happened so 
very close together, often within under a minute of each other, that its just not possible for 
Mr C to have rung Santander between these attempts, and been advised to try smaller 
amounts. 
Mr C repeated that the bank he was transferring money to had told him about the transfer 
limits, and said Santander was still saying it wasnt aware of any limits applicable to debit 
card payments.Mr C said that he then complained, and Santander said it would listen to the calls. Mr C said 
that this call was made at approximately 4.45pm. 
I can see that Mr C then made further transfer attempts at 13:46, 13:55, 15:39, 16:15 and 
16:45. None of these transfers were successful, except for his last transfer at 16:43. I think 
thats consistent with Mr C complaining after this. 
I note that this also supports my earlier suggestion that the times recorded for Mr Cs 
payments are unlikely to be wrong.
Mr C said that he hadnt asked Santander to cover his losses when he complained. And he 
said that the issue was that Santander hadnt told him about the debit card transfer limits. He 
said that if there was such a limit he wanted this to be set out in the terms of the account, 
and he said that if it was already there, the person he was talking to didnt know that.
Mr C said Santander hadnt done anything to tell him about the failed payments. 
Because Mr C was paying using a debit card, I think its likely that Mr C was made aware 
straight away by the bank he was paying whether or not each of his payments had 
succeeded. Thats what Id normally expect to happen with failed debit card payments. 
Mr C said that the investigator saying that we dont tell a business what to include in its 
terms is in conflict with an earlier point where Id included a quote from Santanders terms, 
which says it can restrict transfers. 
I had noted that our investigator also said that stopping transactions when they exceed 
the limit is in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I think our investigator was 
explaining the limits of what our service can do here, not suggesting Santander had acted 
outside of the terms of Mr Cs account. I dont think theres a conflict.
Mr C said that Santander had repeatedly told him that the receiving bank was rejecting the 
transferred funds. He asked Santander to contact the receiving bank directly, but it wouldnt. 
I said I didnt think the advice I could hear on the one call we have from 28 February was as 
helpful as it could have been. And I think its likely that Mr C wasnt given clear and 
consistent advice throughout the day about what was going wrong. But I dont think that 
makes Santander responsible for Mr Cs decision to persist in trying to transfer all his 
money, rather than to focus on investing what had been transferred. 
Mr C said that hed be disappointed if I decided to uphold my provisional decision. He said I 
might consider that his complaint was a mercenary action with the motive being of avarice. 
He wanted to assure me his motives were sincere and relate to the large organisation that is 
Santander failing to accept responsibility for its poor service. He said he wanted to make 
sure Santanders advisors were better trained in future, and future customers got better 
information. 
I dont question Mr Cs motives in making this complaint, and indeed it would be entirely 
inappropriate for that to have any influence at all on my decision here. Id also note that 
many of those who complain to our service are motivated to recover losses, and its part of 
our role to assist with that, where we think a business is at fault. 
However, what we cannot do is tell a business what to do in future. I can only look at whats 
happened in each individual case, and try to put right or to make up for anything that I think 
has gone wrong. So, whilst I could have asked Santander to pay more, if I didnt think what it 
had offered was enough, our service could never have instructed Santander to provide better training, or otherwise make sure mistakes didnt happen again. We just dont have the 
power to do that. 
Ive considered Mr Cs representations carefully, and in considerable detail. I know Mr C will 
be disappointed, but I still dont think Santander has to do more than it has already offered to 
do.
I know Mr C will be disappointed by my decision. He may wish to pursue his complaint 
through other means. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve Mr Cs 
dispute with Santander informally  can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr C any more on 
this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr C £100, in addition to the £30 it has 
already paid for this complaint. Santander UK Plc can offset against this award any money it 
has already paid for this complaint over and above its initial payment of £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman