DRN-4054706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (now trading as Virgin Money) 
mis-sold them a fee-paying Signature account in November 2011.
Mr and Mrs M say that the account was mis-sold because they were told that the account 
included many benefits and that by holding the account, getting loans in the future would be 
easier. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt need the benefits of the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they did not think that account had 
been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice when taking 
out the account.
Prior to upgrading to the Signature account Mr and Mrs M held a fee-free account. And 
based on their recollections of events, Ive not seen anything to suggest that they thought 
they had no choice in the matter or that fee-free accounts werent available to them. As 
such, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice and that they agreed to 
upgrade their account knowing that it was optional.
Mr and Mrs M have said that the account was recommended to them. However, Ive not 
seen enough evidence to lead me to conclude that the account was sold on an advised 
basis. I say this because Ive not seen anything (including Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of 
events) to suggest that Virgin Money carried out an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms 
insurance needs, or recommended the packaged account on the basis that the insurance 
products it came with met their needs. For example, Mr and Mrs M say that they were told 
that it came with many benefits  but that doesnt amount to what is classed as an advised 
sale.
As it seems that the account was in all likelihood sold on a non-advised basis, this meant 
that Virgin Money did not have to assess whether the account was a good fit for Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances. But Virgin Money was required to give Mr and Mrs M important 
information about the account so they could make an informed decision about whether to 
upgrade or not.
Based only Mr and Mrs Ms recollections, it does appear that they were told about the cost of 
the account. It also seems that the insurance benefits that came with the account were 
discussed with them  although its difficult for me to say how detailed that conversation was.
It seems the main issue Mr and Mrs M have is that they recall being told that it would help 
them obtain loans in the future. If they were told that, that would be misleading as the 
signature account had no bearing on whether they could obtain loans. 
When weighing up what was most likely to have happened, Im not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs M did agree to the upgrade on the basis that they thought it would improve their 
chances of getting a loan. 
I say this because firstly, there is no evidence that indicates that this is what they were told. 
Secondly, I can see that theyd been able to take out many loans and a couple of mortgages 
with Virgin Money in the years before they upgraded their account. So I find it unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs M thought they needed to upgrade their account to improve their chances  
when they appeared to have been able to borrow from Virgin Money many times with no 
problems before then. 
Also, I note that in 2011, the account did include some banking benefits such as reduced 
interest rates on overdrafts and had occasionally included offers of reduced fees on 
mortgages, not long before theyd agreed to it. Therefore, I cant rule out the possibility that 
these were discussed with Mr and Mrs M during the sale, and it was these benefits that they 
mayve been interested in at the time. 
Furthermore, I note that they travelled occasionally (albeit largely within the UK) and drive a 
vehicle. And the account included travel insurance and breakdown cover as benefits at the 
time. So again, I think its just as likely that they agreed to the account because they thought 
(at least when they first agreed to it) that they might be able to take advantage of the 
benefits of the account.
As such, based on everything I have seen, on balance, Im unable to conclude that the 
account was mis-sold. 
I do appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs M may now regret agreeing to 
the account and they may now feel that it has been poor value for money. This seems to be 
the case especially when they considered downgrading it recently, but say they were 
persuaded by a member of staff to keep it. But that in itself doesnt mean that it was mis-sold 
or that Virgin Money was wrong to have sold the account to them when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman