DRN-4346347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complained about the way HSBC UK Bank plc handled their request for a 
chargeback refund for a transaction which they disputed.
What happened
On 28 February 2023, Mr and Mrs V went to a bathroom merchant to buy a replacement 
shower screen. They explained to the salesman that their existing shower screen was 
870mm wide, and the merchant told them the screens came in 800mm or 900mm. He didnt 
say the screens were adjustable, so 900mm would be too large, and Mr V ordered two 
800mm screens. Mr V used his HSBC debit card to pay £1,853.38 from their HSBC account 
to the merchant.
When the order arrived and the fitter came to put up the first screen, he found that the width 
was only 757mm, though the packaging said it was 755-790mm. Mr Vs order had specified 
800mm. Mr V said the merchant should have recommended the 900mm screen, which was 
adjustable to 855-890 mm. Mr V complained to the merchant, but they would only take back 
one screen, not both, because the packaging had been opened. This meant Mr and Mrs V 
had a loss of £349.88 for the unused screen which the merchant wouldnt take back.
On 29 March, Mr V went to an HSBC branch to raise a dispute. He explained about 
problems with the shower screen. Mr V says the branch told him he had to put the full 
amount of the transaction on the form, not the £349.88 in dispute. He was sent a form by 
HSBCs disputes team the next day, and he completed, signed and returned it on 31 March, 
together with invoices and other information. On 5 April, HSBC credited Mr and Mrs Vs 
account with a temporary credit of £1,853.38 while it investigated.
On11 April, HSBC debited the temporary £1,853.38 credit. It didnt explain why it had done 
this, and in fact it sent Mr V a letter saying it had credited his account with that amount.
The same day, Mr V received an email from HSBCs disputes team, asking him to sign the 
dispute form. Mr V replied promptly that hed already done so on 31 March, but he continued 
to receive daily emails saying the same thing for nine days. 
Mr V complained to HSBCs chief executive on 13 April, in which he set out the situation 
about the bathroom screens, and the fact that the amount he was disputing was £349.88. He 
received an acknowledgement the next day, but he also continued to receive multiple emails 
asking him to sign the dispute form which hed already signed on 31 March.
On 27 April, Mr V and an HSBC representative had a phone call. The HSBC adviser asked 
Mr V to re-submit the dispute form, saying he needed to add in the exact amount he was 
disputing, as the dispute team would need to raise a partial not full refund. Mr V told him that 
the disputes team already had that information, which hed submitted with the signed form 
on 31 March. After the call, the adviser emailed Mr V, asking him to re-submit the dispute 
form with the exact amount he was disputing. The email said Mr V could include a covering 
letter with further supporting documentation, as well as an explanation of the refunds which 
the bathroom merchant had already supplied. The email said that when its dispute team 
received the form with the correct information on it, it would review it and continue the 
investigation against the merchant. It went on to say that HSBC was very sorry for the poor 
service it had provided, and paid £50 into his account as compensation.
Mr V replied the same day, complying with the request and setting out the figures for the two 
shower screens theyd bought, and the amount that the bathroom merchant had refunded to 
them for one of the screens. The merchant hadnt refunded them for the second screen so 
the amount in dispute was £349.88. 
By 15 May, Mr V hadnt heard back, so he chased HSBC. 
HSBC replied on 17 May saying it had tried to phone Mr V, and asked him to phone. Mr V 
emailed that hed given HSBC enough time to investigate, and asked what the dispute team 
was waiting for, and that the dispute team needed to write to him. He set out that the screen 
hadnt conformed to the description hed been given, and that the merchant had given him 
incorrect advice about what to buy. He asked why hed received repeated emails asking him 
to sign the form for about nine days, then another three days, when hed already signed the 
form. He queried the £1,853.38 credit and debit to his account on 5 and 11 April, and said he 
wanted a response to all these points  not a phone conversation.
An HSBC adviser replied on 17 May saying Unfortunately Im unable to confirm the 
progress of your dispute case as I dont work within our disputes team.  The email went on 
to tell Mr V to phone the disputes team. It went on to say As no further action can be taken 
in regards to your complaint, and in the absence of any new information regarding the 
situation, HSBC will not be corresponding with you any further on these matters. I can 
confirm that this can be considered as the banks final response on the matter. 
Mr and Mrs V contacted this service for help.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. He said that the first chargeback 
form didnt have the correct figure for the dispute, but he appreciated that HSBC didnt make 
that clear to Mr and Mrs V. The investigator told Mr and Mrs V that he was satisfied that 
HSBC had now taken the correct steps in raising the chargeback, but as the timescales for 
chargebacks are set by the card scheme, there was nothing HSBC could do but wait.
Mr and Mrs V asked for evidence that HSBC had now sent off their chargeback, and asked 
when theyd hear. The investigator asked HSBC, which said that Mr V hadnt phoned so it 
had never sent off the chargeback. The investigator apologised that hed thought the 
chargeback had been raised, but told Mr V that hed again have to submit a new chargeback 
and supporting documentation. The investigator acknowledged that HSBCs last letter had 
said HSBC wouldnt correspond further with Mr V about this, but said this just related to the 
complaints team, and Mr V should send the chargeback claim and documentation to the 
disputes team. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree. They sent detailed reasons, and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, and their complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I first explained that the decision was about what HSBC did and 
didnt do. This service doesnt decide the outcome of chargeback claims. Chargebacks are a 
voluntary scheme, run by the card scheme (the business that runs the payment network) not 
by the card issuers (here, HSBC). The chargeback scheme was one way which HSBC might 
have been able to recover funds for Mr and Mrs V. However, chargebacks are limited by the 
particular scheme rules that apply. I considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules to 
decide whether HSBC had acted fairly here.
Having looked carefully at the detailed information provided by both sides, I considered that 
HSBC provided poor service to Mr and Mrs V, making multiple errors.
- I accepted Mr Vs evidence about what happened when he first went to a branch to 
raise the problem on 29 March. He explained the details, but wasnt given a copy of 
the complaint which branch staff recorded, and he wasnt asked to sign anything.  He 
completed the form which was sent to him by HSBCs Disputes team on 31 March. 
Mr V said that the amount of the chargeback was decided by HSBC, and when he 
went back to the branch, he told them he was disputing one shower screen  but 
they told him they had to chargeback the full amount. I could tell from the detail and 
precision of Mr Vs evidence that he is careful and thorough, so I thought it was 
unlikely that the error on the form he submitted on 31 March arose from any 
carelessness on Mr Vs part. Nor did I think it was the result of any intention to claim 
more than the £349.88 which he believed was due, because he made the amount 
clear in his supporting documents which set out the dispute.
- It wasnt clear to me why, when HSBC received the 31 March form, it didnt 
immediately and clearly contact him to say that although the supporting documents 
were about £349.88, the box clicked on the covering form was for £1,853.88. The 
whole problem appeared to have arisen from this initial difference, which I considered 
was a minor administrative matter which could and should have been easily solved 
by a quick email or phone call to clarify. Instead, HSBC put a temporary credit for the 
full £1,853.88 onto Mr and Mrs Vs account on 5 April.
- Further errors were made on 11 April. First, HSBC didnt tell Mr and Mrs V why it was 
taking back the temporary credit.  Its reasonable that it should have told them the 
reason.  I saw nothing to indicate that HSBC had raised the chargeback at that point, 
so it might be that someone had belatedly realised that the form and supporting 
documents were about different amounts. But if so, HSBC should have explained 
this, and sorted out the issue so the amounts matched.
- A further error on 11 April was that the letter which was sent to Mr and Mrs V said 
that £1,853.88 had been credited  when in fact it had been debited.
- I could understand why Mr and Mrs V were frustrated when, for nine days at that 
point and for three days later on, they received daily emails asking them to sign the 
dispute form. Mr V had already done this on 31 March. The emails didnt explain that 
the actual problem was that the supporting documents were for a lower amount than 
the click-box amount on the form. These daily emails asking for something which Mr 
and Mrs V had already done, would have been frustrating and upsetting. 
- The phone call from HSBC on 27 April did at last tell Mr and Mrs V that the problem 
was that the figure on the form needed to be the £349.88 in dispute. The adviser recognised that HSBC had provided poor service, and paid £50 compensation. I 
considered whether this was a fair and reasonable amount below, but in that call and 
follow-up email, HSBC asked Mr V to submit the form and supporting documents 
again  even though hed already done so and the information was with the disputes 
team. 
- It wasnt clear to me why HSBC repeatedly asked for the form, when Mr V had sent 
the supporting documents which were clear and self-explanatory. The most 
appropriate chargeback reason here appeared to have been not as described, but 
the rules only require an explanation, not a form. A form helps the bank to gather all 
the relevant information, but isnt a pre-requisite for the chargeback, and its for the 
banks convenience. HSBC should have been able to submit Mr V and Mrs Vs 
chargeback claim based on what they had. 
- Although Mr V complied with the request and sent the form and documents again, 
the promise made to him on 27 April wasnt honoured. The 27 April letter said that 
once our disputes team receive this form with the correct information provided on it, 
they will be able to review it, and continue the investigation for your dispute with the 
retailer. The email Mr V received on 17 May was unprofessional in tone  - curtly 
saying that the author couldnt confirm the progress of the dispute because he 
worked in a different team, without saying why the correct team couldnt respond. 
Worse, it simply said, as Ive quoted above, that  As no further action can be taken 
in regards to your complaint, and in the absence of any new information regarding 
the situation, HSBC will not be corresponding with you any further on these matters. I 
can confirm that this can be considered as the banks final response on the matter.  
This went against the promise made on 27 April that the dispute would be 
investigated. It also didnt explain why HSBC wasnt willing to take any further action. 
I found that this response was unacceptable in the light of the 27 April promise to 
investigate. It was also unprofessional and unhelpful in tone. I noted that Mr V had 
been polite and co-operative throughout, despite the clear lack of progress when he 
repeatedly provided multiple copies of the same information when requested. 
- I noted that it later came to light that HSBC hadnt actioned a chargeback, despite 
having promised to do so. I recognise that chargebacks arent a right, and the card 
issuer (here, HSBC) doesnt have to submit one. But we think its good practice to try 
if it has a reasonable prospect of success in the particular circumstances. And HSBC 
hadnt argued here that it told Mr and Mrs V that wouldnt raise a chargeback for any 
stated reason  it had simply never done so despite saying it would, then finally said 
it wouldnt correspond further. 
- HSBC told this service that the reason it hadnt issued a chargeback was because Mr 
V never rang back at the end of the chain of events Ive set out above. Mr V told us 
that when important discussions are involved, it has to be written down. I found Mr 
Vs comment entirely understandable, especially in the light of the very poor service 
which Mr and Mrs V had received. In any event, it shouldnt be the case that a 
customers complaint isnt actioned because they prefer to deal by email than phone. 
So I didnt accept that Mr V preferring email was a valid reason for HSBC to refuse to 
progress the investigation of his complaint, or to refuse to progress the chargeback 
claim either.
Having identified multiple errors in HSBCs actions in relation to Mr and Mrs Vs complaint, I 
went on to look at the chargeback claim, its prospect of success, and how this complaint 
should now be resolved.In terms of the chargeback process, I didnt agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs V 
should start again with another attempt to get HSBC to process a chargeback. For one thing, 
by the time of my provisional decision, it was more than 60 days from when HSBC learnt that 
there was a dispute on 29 March, and also outside 120 days from the 28 February 
transaction. This meant that raising a chargeback dispute now wouldnt be possible under 
the rules of the scheme.
I also quite understood why Mr and Mrs V told us that they dont want to go back to HSBC, in 
view of the poor service theyve received, and the fact that HSBC put in writing that it 
wouldnt respond further to correspondence. It appeared to me that trust and confidence had 
been understandably lost, and this wouldnt be practicable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs V provided information right from the start which was enough to satisfy the 
requirements of the card scheme rules, which were to give a description of the dispute in 
enough detail so that the reader could understand the issues. Mr and Mrs V were meticulous 
and clear in what they provided. So I found that they had provided enough, and within the 
timescales, for HSBC to have raised the chargeback claim on their behalf within time. I found 
that HSBC was responsible for the failure to raise a chargeback.
I went on to look at the consequence of that failure by HSBC. HSBC had made no comment 
to suggest that a chargeback for merchandise not being as described would have had a poor 
prospect of success. And I was surprised that HSBC would have entertained the idea of 
submitting a chargeback in the first place if it thought there was no reasonable prospect of 
success. So I found that HSBC deprived Mr and Mrs V of the opportunity to find out what 
would have happened. In the absence of any compelling reasons to show why a chargeback 
would not have succeeded, on balance I thought it was more likely to have succeeded than 
not. So I considered that a fair answer here would be for HSBC to provide a refund of the 
amount it should have submitted as a chargeback ie £349.88, plus interest at 8% simple 
from the date it should have raised it, 31 March 2023, to the date of settlement.
I also looked at compensation for the distress and inconvenience which HSBCs errors and 
omissions caused Mr and Mrs V. It was evident from the facts Ive set out above that they 
suffered a considerable amount of frustration, trouble and upset. Mr V repeatedly provided 
information requested, and time and again he met barriers and brick walls. As well as lack of 
progress with the actual complaint, HSBC sent repeated daily emails asking for what Mr V 
had already supplied, and it refused to deal with him other than by phone. I considered it 
was quite understandable that Mr V was unwilling to do so by that stage, and in any case he 
should have had an option as a consumer.  Mr V acted calmly and reasonably throughout, 
despite a chain of bad service. And after an HSBC adviser admitted poor service and 
promised action on 27 April, this promise was not kept, and things worsened, culminating 
with HSBCs refusal to submit the chargeback or to investigate his complaint further. 
Taking all these factors into account, I considered that a fair and reasonable figure for 
compensation for distress would be £300. HSBC paid Mr and Mrs V £50, which would leave 
£250 still to pay.
So my provisional decision was that I intended, subject to responses from the parties, to 
uphold this complaint. I said that I intended to order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr and Mrs 
V:
- £349.88, which was the amount it should have submitted as a chargeback;
- Interest at 8% simple from the date it should have raised it, 31 March 2023, to the 
date of settlement;- If HSBC deducts tax from the interest on the award, it should provide Mr and Mrs V 
with a tax deduction certificate to show how much it has deducted, in order to allow 
them to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate to their personal circumstances;
- £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which it caused Mr and Mrs 
V. As HSBC has already paid £50, this would leave £250 still to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs V accepted the provisional decision. They corrected a factual point in the 
chronology, which Ive reflected in the facts above. Mr and Mrs V also said that they would 
require a certificate of interest.
HSBC didnt accept the provisional decision. It raised the following points.
- It commented on my statement that a form isnt a pre-requisite for a chargeback, and 
that HSBC should have been able to submit Mr and Mrs Vs chargeback claim based 
on what it had. HSBC said that the form was part of its policy for raising chargebacks 
and should be an accurate reflection of the claim. It said that as Mr and Mrs V hadnt 
completed it, HSBC hadnt raised a chargeback.
- HSBC agreed that its service hadnt been to the standards it would expect. It agreed 
that compensation was warranted, but said that £200 would be more appropriate, 
reduced by the £50 already paid making £150.
- The retailers returns policy had said that opened products wouldnt be refunded. So 
HSBC said the likelihood of Mr and Mrs Vs chargeback being successful was very 
low. So it didnt feel it should be held responsible for the claim.
- HSBC said that chargebacks arent a legal right. Where HSBC agreed to raise a 
chargeback, it didnt suggest or guarantee the chance of it being successful.
So HSBCs position was that it shouldnt refund Mr and Mrs V for the disputed amount, and 
compensation should be £200 (less £50 already paid) and not £300 (less £50 already paid).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, I have considered the responses to my provisional decision.
Ive incorporated Mr and Mrs Vs factual comment in the facts set out above, and I note that 
Mr and Mrs V require a certificate of interest.
Looking at HSBCs comments:
- I still consider that HSBC had enough information to have been able to submit Mr 
and Mrs Vs chargeback claim. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs V acted promptly 
and honestly in their repeated attempts to comply with HSBCs requirements. HSBC 
staff failed to provide necessary communication and assistance in relation to its form, 
and a form isnt a pre-requisite for a chargeback. I find that it would have been fair 
and reasonable for HSBC to have raised the chargeback in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, and it repeatedly failed to do so.- I find that the service provided by HSBC to Mr and Mrs V was very poor, as Ive set 
out above. I consider that a fair and reasonable amount for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them would be £300, not £200 as HSBC suggests. This 
makes £250 still to pay as HSBC has already paid Mr and Mrs V £50.
- I note that HSBC is now saying that the likelihood of Mr and Mrs Vs chargeback 
being successful was very low, so it shouldnt be held responsible for the claim. As 
HSBC says, chargebacks arent a legal right. But Ive seen nothing in the previous 
history of this complaint that indicates that HSBC ever previously said that the reason 
it didnt raise a chargeback was down to the prospect of success. HSBC based its 
failure to raise a chargeback solely on its internal form. Im not persuaded by HSBCs 
change of mind, to say at this stage that it had no reasonable prospect of success, 
when it had not said this before. I consider that if HSBC really thought a chargeback 
here had no reasonable prospect of success, it would have said so before. So I still 
find that HSBC should provide a refund for the amount it should have submitted as a 
chargeback ie £349.88, plus interest at 8% simple from the date it should have raised 
it, 31 March 2023, to the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs V:
- £349.88, which was the amount it should have submitted as a chargeback;
- Interest at 8% simple from the date it should have raised it, 31 March 2023, to the 
date of settlement;
- If HSBC deducts tax from the interest on the award, it must provide Mr and Mrs V 
with a tax deduction certificate to show how much it has deducted, in order to allow 
them to reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate to their personal circumstances;
- £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which it caused Mr and Mrs 
V. As HSBC has already paid £50, this leaves £250 still to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman