DRN-4463765
The complaint
Miss G complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) declined a claim she made on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G had a Horse and Rider policy with NFU. The policy started on 11 July 2022 and 
provides cover for, amongst other things, theft of horse or death due to accident, illness, 
disease or straying, veterinary costs for the horse following an accident, illness or disease, 
loss, or damage to tack and equipment, and legal costs to recover uninsured losses 
following an accident.
In early July 2022, before her policy with NFU began, her horse had a vet call for potential 
colic. Miss G says she removed the horses fly rug the night before the appointment with the 
vet due to it having diarrhoea. When she went to see how the horse was doing the next day 
he had been bitten by flies overnight. 
When the vet arrived for the scheduled appointment the vet gave her some shampoo and a 
cream to apply to the bites to calm the reaction. 
On 26 July 2022 her horse had a bald patch where he had rubbed due to itching. From that 
date the vet was involved to try and discover what was causing the itching, including full 
allergy testing. 
Miss G says she put a claim into NFU and from July 2022 to October 2022 NFU were trying 
to decide whether it would pay the claim as it believed it to be a pre-existing condition. Miss 
G says the horse had never suffered from a skin condition previously; and if there was a pre-
existing condition she would have declared it. 
Miss G says NFU spoke to a vet at her practice who had not seen the horse on 6 July 2022 
and the vet presumed the shampoo was given due to the itchy problem currently being 
investigated. And so NFU took that to mean the horse had a pre-existing condition and 
voided the policy. Miss G says this unfairly left her uninsured with outstanding vet bills of 
over £700. 
Miss G wasnt happy and so she complained to NFU. She says she wants NFU to pay the 
claim and remove the void policy from her name. NFU said it asks customers a set of 
questions when they take out or renew a policy. NFU said if it had known on 11 July 2022, 
when the policy was incepted, that the horse had been treated for a skin condition it would 
not have offered her cover. It said it listened to the calls and checked emails and there was 
no mention of the skin condition. 
Miss G wasnt happy with the response from NFU so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into things for her but having reviewed all of the 
information felt that NFU had declined the claim fairly and in line with its policy terms.  
Miss G didnt agree. She said she didnt think fly bites were a skin condition and the claim 
had been dealt with by her previous insurer. So the complaint came to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
Before I explain why Ive reached my intended decision I think it would be useful for me to 
explain how Ive considered the complaint. Its not my role to re-underwrite the claim as 
thats not the role of this service. Instead, its my role to consider the actions NFU have 
taken, in this case declining the claim, and consider whether I think NFU have acted fairly in 
doing so. And as part of this, Ive thought about whether NFU acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy Miss G held. 
Pre-existing condition
In order to consider this complaint Ive taken into account what the clinical notes show and 
the opinion of the experts. I can see theres a dispute between the parties about whether 
there were any clinical signs of the condition prior to inception of the policy. I should stress 
that Im not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge, so when considering 
such complaints I take into account what the clinical notes show and the opinion of the 
experts. And thats what Ive done here. 
The vet made representations on behalf of Miss G and says the appointment on 6 July 2022 
was for abdominal discomfort. And while she was there she noted the fly bites so prescribed 
some treatment. This is in line with Miss Gs testimony about why the horse was seen by the 
vet and what happened at that appointment. 
Miss Gs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says:
We will not pay any claim for a horse which directly or indirectly arises from, or is connected 
with any accident, illness, disease or condition that happened, manifested, was present or 
had been diagnosed in the horse before the start of cover. 
The term Condition is defined as any change in behaviour, internal or external symptoms 
appearing or recurring in any area of the horses body, whether or not a specific illness or 
disease is diagnosed. 
So it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this 
definition. But the symptoms which appear before the start of the policy or within the waiting 
period must be a clinical sign or symptom of the condition claimed for. That means NFU 
should establish that Miss Gs horse had clinical signs or symptoms of a skin condition he 
was suffering from in order to rely on this exclusion. With this in mind Ive looked at the 
history of the horses previous visits to the vet. 
The notes from the vet visit on 6 July 2022 confirm, he is, however, covered in multiple pea 
size fly bites that are crusting and appear very painful. advised treatment of skin lesions 
with malaseb and isaderm and to reassess. 
The claim form submitted by the vet describes the horses history as, large patches 
dermatitis around anus/gluteals. 
I can see from the notes from 11 August 2022 it says, large areas excoriation surrounding 
tail head and plantar gluteals. Many small nodular insect bites across rest of body. Test taken by owner for pinworm but repeated as lesions classic pinworm in 
appearancediscussed skin testing as next diagnostic step. 
The vets notes from prior to inception of the policy and afterwards appear to be describing 
fairly similar symptoms. The onus is on an insurer to provide that an exclusion applies. I 
havent seen any mention by a treating vet that the fly bites are linked to the skin condition 
the horse suffered once the policy had started. The notes say the skin issues could be 
related to pinworm, grass warts, or a skin allergy. Given this I think NFU acted unfairly in 
refusing the claim on the basis the horse had a pre-existing condition. 
Miss Gs testimony was that the fly bites occurred when her horses fly rug was taken off due 
to the horse suffering diarrhoea and it affecting the rug. Overnight the horse suffered a lot of 
fly bites, and this seems plausible. Miss G says she didnt think a few fly bites counted as a 
skin condition. 
The claim made on the policy in August 2022 was for treatment for large patches of 
dermatitis around the gluteal. The vet history referred to there being many small nodular 
insect bite lesions across the rest of the body. Im satisfied this distinguishes the fly bites 
from the large areas excoriation surrounding tall head and plantar gluteals. The 
underwriting evidence provided to me refers to skin nodules which appear to be something 
else and not fly bites. 
I dont think NFU has shown the bites were related to the skin conditions the horse suffered 
thereafter. As such NFU has not shown that it can fairly apply the exclusion. I think the fair 
outcome is for NFU to pay the claim, together with interest as set out below. 
In the absence of persuasive evidence of such a connection I dont think NFU treated Miss G 
fairly in declining the claim on the basis of a pre-existing condition. By issuing this provisional 
decision Im giving both parties the opportunity to provide whatever further evidence they 
have in this regard. 
Misrepresentation 
The relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). In line with CIDRA, I would usually consider it fair for an insurer to apply a 
retrospective exclusion if its policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering its clear 
questions when they bought the policy. And the insurer can show it would have added an 
exclusion had it been given the information. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. And if a consumer fails to do this the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. For it to be qualifying the 
insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the 
consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
NFU thinks Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
took out the policy and didnt disclose her horse had shown signs of illness, injury or being 
unwell. NFU say this prevented it from applying an exclusion or declining the policy.
The first point Ive considered is whether Miss G took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Ive looked at the information she was presented with when she took out the policy. Miss G was asked whether, in the last three years, she had made any claims 
regarding vet fees or lost horses. She answered she had vet fees last year, field accident. 
And uveitis. At this point the horse hadnt suffered with any skin problems so Im satisfied 
Miss G took reasonable care to answer the questions. 
NFU said it would have continued with cover if Miss G had contacted it during the period in 
between the sale and the inception and told it her horse had been bitten by some flies and 
been prescribed some topical medication. Miss G didnt call to make NFU aware of the fly 
bites because she didnt think it was a condition that needed to be reported. But even if she 
had, NFU said it would have continued with the cover. So I dont think its shown that it would 
have done something differently. 
I dont think Miss G failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions she was 
asked about her horses condition, so I dont think NFU can alter the contract it entered into 
on the basis the horse then suffered with skin conditions.
CIDRA only allows NFU to alter the terms of the policy if a qualifying misrepresentation has 
been made. And as explained Miss G didnt fail to take reasonable care, so, there is no 
qualifying misrepresentation.
It follows that I dont consider NFU was entitled to backdate the policy exclusion for claims 
with respect to the horses skin condition and cancel the policy due to misrepresentation. 
And to put things right I think NFU should continue to offer cover on the terms of the contract 
as it was entered into. For clarity that means including cover for skin conditions on an 
ongoing basis until the policy limits are reached. 
I think NFUs decision not to pay the claim has caused Miss G some distress and 
inconvenience. I think it should fairly pay her some compensation for that and I assess £100 
to be a reasonable amount.
Response to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they want me to 
consider. 
Miss G agreed with the outcome in the provisional decision. 
NFU didnt agree with the outcome. It said it wouldnt have accepted cover if the bites were 
being treated as was the case here. If it had been a couple of fly bites on their own cover 
would have been allowed. NFU said five days before policy inception the horse was 
prescribed treatment for the bites and had it been aware cover wouldnt have been 
accepted. 
NFU also said their own vet advised the skin issues over the body was dermatitis  there 
were no results from allergy testing but the flea bite treatment appeared to resolve the skin 
issues. And so this falls outside of cover. NFU said the horses tail could have been linked to 
pinworm and so it was agreed this part of the claim would have been met, had the policy not 
been voided. 
So I have considered both parties positions and reviewed the evidence provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be useful to reiterate its not my role to re-underwrite the claim as thats not 
the role of this service. My role is to consider the actions NFU have taken, in this case 
voiding the policy and declining the claim and consider whether I think NFU has acted fairly 
in doing so. 
And having considered everything again my position has not altered.
Misrepresentation and policy voidance
If a consumer has provided information that is incorrect or incomplete then in order for the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one NFU need to show Miss G didnt take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation; and based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded Miss 
G didnt take reasonable care.
NFU say medical assistance was sought in advance of the policy commencement date. Miss 
G has explained she wasnt aware that fly bites were considered a condition. The insurer 
has applied a strict interpretation of the pre-existing condition exclusion but I think this is 
unfair when there was no way the consumer could have known about it before the policy 
started. Her testimony regarding the bites and the visit from the vet has remained consistent, 
is compelling, and is corroborated by the vet. So Im persuaded by what shes said. 
CIDRA only allows NFU to alter the terms of the policy, or void it completely, if there has 
been a misrepresentation. As there was no qualifying misrepresentation the insurer cant 
take any action. As previously explained, on balance, it appears Miss G took reasonable 
care when answering NFUs questions. 
But even if Miss G hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation NFU has 
to show it would have done something differently. And based on the evidence its provided to 
me I cant see NFU has done this. It says it wouldnt have provided cover if there were skin 
nodules that were undergoing treatment but I dont think thats what has happened here. The 
horse had some fly bites the symptoms of which were treated with a topical solution to 
prevent them becoming infected. Im not persuaded fly bites could be seen as dermatitis or 
any other skin condition. 
And so because I dont think NFU has demonstrated it would have acted differently had it 
been aware of the fly bites, and I think Miss G took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation then it follows there is no qualifying misrepresentation here. And so NFU 
arent able to take any action in respect of the policy, including to void it. 
Pre-existing condition
NFUs vet noted, the animal had crusting (exudative) pruritic/painful popular skin nodules 
that were widely dispersed over its body prior to inception of insurance These popular skin 
lesions persisted for several months after the inception of the insurance.  Ive checked the 
notes from the vets visit at the time. And she refers to fly bites that appeared overnight when 
the fly rug was removed (for good reason)  and recommended treatment to stop the bites 
becoming infected. She doesnt confirm the presence of nodules, skin lesions, or dermatitis 
at this stage. And there is no suggestion the horse suffered any skin issues prior to the bites 
within the notes. I think the attending vets notes are persuasive given theyre 
contemporaneous and written by someone who physically saw the horse at the relevant 
time. The claim made on the policy in August 2022 was for dermatitis and its noted within the 
records that the horse has small nodular insect bites which I think distinguish the bites from 
the dermatitis. 
As previously explained I dont think NFU has shown the bites were related to the skin 
conditions the horse suffered thereafter. As such NFU has not shown that it can fairly apply 
the exclusion. I think the fair outcome is for NFU to pay the claim, together with interest as 
set out below. 
Taking a pragmatic view of the complaint and based on the evidence thats been presented 
its clear the horse suffered from different conditions that happened to have similar 
symptoms.
So for the reasons explained above Im upholding Miss Gs complaint and have set out 
below what NFU need to do to put things right.
Putting things right
Given the conclusions Ive reached, as set out above, I think NFU should; 
Treat Miss Gs policy as though it hadnt been avoided 
Ensure any record of, or relating to, the cancellation of Miss Gs policy and/or the 
alleged misrepresentation is removed from their own and any other database 
records. 
Pay the claim in line with the terms of the policy; and add 8% yearly simple interest 
from the date the claim was declined to the date NFU settle this complaint
Pay Miss G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint and intend to direct The 
National Farmers Union Mutual Society Limited to do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman