DRN-3915189
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) has unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr L had a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by 
Zurich. 
Mr L began his employment on 19 July 2021 for which he had to complete training. On 3 
September 2021 he became absent from work due to pain. He made a claim which Zurich 
declined on the basis that Mr L didnt meet the criteria to be eligible for benefit. 
Mr L complained to Zurich but it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr L referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Zurich had unfairly declined the 
claim as he said the medical evidence showed Mr L was suffering from pain before he 
started his job.
Mr L disagreed and in summary has said he met all the Actively At Work requirements and 
so benefit should have been paid. He said his pain related to his hip which wasnt related to 
the operation he had before he started his employment. He was not absent, was following 
his normal occupation, and hadnt been advised to refrain from work.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define Actively At Work as follows:
means an employee who:
has not received medical advice to refrain from work
is not absent from work or restricted from working due to illness or injury, and
is actively following their normal occupation. 
This means working their normal capacity for the normal number of hours required by their 
contract, either at their normal place of business or at a place where the business requires 
them to work.
Zurich declined Mr Ls claim for the following main reasons:
Mr L was unfit to work at the time he started the job due to persisting intense and 
unremitting pain.
He had surgery in April 2021. In June 2021, he was experiencing intense pain and 
discomfort following the surgery.
He started his job on 19 July 2021. On 26 July 2021 he had continued pain and 
made contact with his medical experts who discussed the possibility of another 
operation. 
Mr L was struggling with the duties he was required to do even though he wasnt 
absent or late. He didnt complete all of his required exams, struggled with the course 
and had difficulties with sitting.
As a result of the above, Zurich said Mr L didnt meet the Actively At Work criteria. 
Further medical evidence showed the following:
The occupational health reports dated September and November 2021 refer to Mr L 
being absent from work as a result of complications following spinal injury and 
surgery. They also say Mr Ls predominant barrier to work was low back pain.
Having considered Zurichs reasons for declining the claim including the medical evidence 
available, its more likely than not that Mr L was unfit to work when he started his job. This is 
the conclusion Zurich came to which I dont think is unreasonable based on Mr Ls GP 
records and occupational health reports. 
Mr L says his absence was related to his hip problem rather than his back problems. The 
cause of his pain isnt the test here. Rather, the test is whether Mr L was fit enough to work 
when he started his job in July 2021. So even if his pain was caused by his hip, the medical 
evidence shows that Mr L was suffering from pain before he started the job and by his own 
admission, struggled to carry out his role. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman