DRN-4078367
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about an installation for home improvements she paid for using a 
fixed sum loan with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF). 
Mrs T has had a representative but, to keep things simple, Ill only refer to Mrs T. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs T entered into an agreement for the supply and fit of windows, 
doors, fascia soffits and guttering with a supplier. The installation cost £6,600. It was carried 
out over a few days in March 2021. Mrs T funded it with a £600 deposit and a £6,000 fixed 
sum loan with BPF. The fixed sum loan had a buy now pay later interest free period up until 
26 March 22. It looks like Mrs T also entered into another contract with the supplier to amend 
an order for dry verges which cost £470. 
Around a month after the installation Mrs T contacted BPF because she was unhappy with it. 
BPFs notes say there was an issue with the fascia, the dry verge needing repairing, the 
guttering was too short and other issues. Mrs T also mentioned to BPF the scaffolding had 
been up over a month. 
Ive seen a service call document Mrs T said was completed in May 2021 saying work was 
done on units; dry verge; leading; tile; gutters and downpipes. And it said there was work left 
to do in relation to the following:
Replace cappit board on porch and front of gable.
Refit dry verges on gable.
Fit extra meter of square gutter to front. 
Wax repair to door frame.
Soil stack collar.
I understand work was carried out in June 2021. And Mrs T said the scaffold was taken 
down the following month.
Ive been supplied another service call document dated 2 November 2021 for works relating 
to the fascia boards which I understand needed a temporary scaffold. I believe Mrs T was 
also unhappy with a dip in the guttering. 
BPF says Mrs T told it on 5 November 2021 that despite there still being one problem, all 
other issues had been resolved. So BPF issued a final response letter on 8 November 2021 
acknowledging the issues with the installation and it arranged for a payment of £100 to be 
sent to Mrs T. 
Mrs T didnt think £100 was sufficient. She asked BPF and the supplier for a 25% price 
reduction. And she brought her complaint to our service in January 2022. She highlighted 
the issues and how long it took to resolve things. She also said she mentioned shed have to 
pay interest if the issues werent resolved before the interest free period ended.
BPF agreed to extend the interest free period by three months while we looked into the 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things and thought there was enough evidence to demonstrate 
the work wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill. Taking into account the remedial 
work that was required, and the time taken to resolve things, she thought thered been a 
breach of contract and that, to resolve the complaint, BPF should reduce the contract price 
by 10%. 
BPF responded to say Covid-19 impacted the suppliers ability to resolve things for Mrs T. 
So it said it was unable to agree BPF or the supplier were able to prevent some of the 
delays. But it made an offer of a price reduction of £200. 
Mrs T responded to say the supplier had also damaged the alarm during the installation. And 
that she thought the price reduction compensation should be doubled. She also mentioned 
there were further problems with the windows and the back soffit. 
BPF responded further to say it would agree to reduce the price by £600. But Mrs T didnt 
agree. As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
Mrs T let us know the supplier resolved the issue with the windows, but she said it hadnt 
resolved the issue with the back soffit and the alarm. Our investigator said as these were 
new issues not considered under the original complaint Mrs T would need to raise them with 
the supplier or BPF in the first instance. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mrs T 
and BPF that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Mrs T paid for the home improvements using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating 
to these sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes BPF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. The CRA also 
sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or 
services contract are not met. 
Ive not been shown a lot of evidence for this case. Ive been supplied details of the contract, 
correspondence, a few photos, and some details of return visits made by the supplier. But I 
dont, for example, have independent evidence of whats gone wrong, nor do I have detailed 
evidence of any outstanding issues. So its not straight-forward to reach firm conclusions on 
whats happened and what else, if anything, needs to be done to put things right. However, that being said, it doesnt seem to be in dispute there were issues with the initial 
installation. The supplier has set out in the May 2021 service call document there were parts 
that needed refitting or repairing. And further work was required in November 2021 (and 
more recently). Ive also seen a letter from Mrs T outlining the various issues she was 
unhappy about. BPF acknowledged Mrs T had experienced issues with the installation which 
is why it paid her £100. All of this indicates there was a breach of contract because the 
service hadnt initially been carried out with reasonable skill and care. 
Where rights under a services contract arent met, the CRA sets out that depending on the 
circumstances consumers can request, amongst other things, either repeat performance or a 
price reduction. 
In Mrs Ts case she requested repeat performance when she asked the supplier to remedy 
issues. And shes also requested a price reduction. The CRA sets out that a consumer (who 
has the right) is only entitled to a price reduction if repeat performance is impossible or if the 
supplier is in breach of the requirement to carry it out within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. 
Ive not got record of all the contact. But I can see in Mrs Ts claim letter to BPF in April 2021 
that shed been waiting for the supplier to carry out repairs for two weeks. And I can see the 
supplier visited her in May 2021 to carry out repairs. I dont think this was an unreasonably 
long time to wait. But Im mindful it was a long time for Mrs T to wait to have all the work 
completed. The initial work was carried out in March 2021, and there were still some issues 
being resolved recently in 2023. Mrs T was also unhappy she had to wait until July 2021 for 
the scaffolding to be removed. 
BPF has explained that some of the delays were down to the impact of Covid-19 on the 
supplier. I can appreciate Covid-19 was an unprecedented event that impacted firms in 
different ways which may have caused some issues. Ive taken that into account.
Based on what Ive seen, it looks like the problems with the installation werent all minor 
issues  and from what Ive seen there were lots of issues to resolve. Mrs T has told us the 
supplier had to visit her various times to resolve things. Shes also told us the supplier didnt 
keep her as up to date as it should have done and there were long gaps in the contact. In all 
the circumstances, even taking into account the impact of Covid-19, given the supplier was 
still resolving matters nearly two years after the initial installation, I think things did take too 
long to resolve.
Our investigator recommended BPF reduce the total contract price by 10%. After not initially 
agreeing, BPF offered to reduce the price by £600.
I agree there was a breach of contract. And I think there were grounds for Mrs T to validly 
request a price reduction. Theres not a scientific formula to use when deciding what that 
reduction should be. But, in the round, taking into account the complaint Im considering, I 
find a £600 reduction to be broadly fair and reasonable. I consider this fair in addition to the 
£100 that BPF has already paid Mrs T, given BPF has said it could have done more to keep 
her updated. Im not minded to direct BPF to pay more. 
However, there are some loose ends that I think need clearing up before issuing a final 
decision. Ive not been told Mrs T has paid off the agreement. And BPFs offer to extend the 
interest free period I believe has expired. If not already done so, given I think there was a 
breach of contract, should Mrs T accept a final decision, I think BPF should extend the 
interest free period by 28 days to enable her to pay off the agreement without paying interest 
if she wishes to do so. Finally, I understand the outstanding issues with the installation have been or are being 
resolved. Although, while not part of the original complaint, I can see shes mentioned an 
issue with the alarm box. She says it was damaged by the supplier. As our investigator 
pointed out, its our role to decide whether BPF has acted fairly based on the complaint 
thats already been raised with it. This is the complaint Mrs T referred to us in January 2022. 
But even if this were something I was considering under this complaint, Ive not seen enough 
evidence to demonstrate the supplier has damaged Mrs Ts alarm box, nor have we been 
told what would need to be done to put things right. 
To resolve the complaint Mrs T referred to us, she requested a satisfactory price reduction. 
Ive set out what I think is fair in relation to that. So, for the avoidance of doubt, for the 
purposes of this complaint, Im not intending to comment further on any unresolved issues 
that werent part of her original complaint. 
All things considered, BPF has already paid Mrs T £100, so to resolve the complaint, I think 
BPF should also:
Reduce the debt by £600. 
Extend the interest free period of the loan by 28 days from the date Mrs T accepts a 
final decision, should she wish to do so.
BPF explained that the agreement was settled within the interest free period. But it agreed to 
pay Mrs T £600. 
In summary, Mrs T said:
BPF never gave an extension.
£600 doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Shes still waiting for the fascia at the back of the house and the alarm box to be 
fixed. 
We wrote to Mrs T and said that we couldnt see the complaints about the fascia or alarm 
box were part of the original complaint. And that wed not been provided evidence of the 
damage. We asked for further details about when the faults or damage occurred, the nature 
of it and whether the issues were due to be rectified. 
Mrs T responded to say the fascia fault came about because the supplier put a new fascia 
on incorrectly, and in fixing it the alarm box was damaged. Mrs T explained she didnt notice 
the damage to the alarm box straight away, but thought it was done when the supplier came 
back to carry out repairs. She said the supplier was due to get in touch, and that the fascia 
was fine but needed an extra nail.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as though Mrs T settled this agreement within the interest free period, I dont need to 
instruct BPF to extend that period. And while I appreciate Mrs T doesnt think £600 goes far 
enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused, Ive set out in my provisional 
decision why I think this is fair, taking into account the number of problems and return visits 
the supplier needed to make. Ive also highlighted the lack of evidence, and the fact Ive not 
seen any significant consequential issues caused by the works. So, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I think the £600 is a broadly fair price reduction.Ive also thought further about the two other issues Mrs T mentioned relating to the fascia 
and alarm box. Ive not seen evidence of the issue with the fascia. But Mrs T has indicated it 
was ok, and that it requires a straight-forward fix, which the supplier has agreed to carry out. 
Shes not told us its causing any issues, so Im not going to direct BPF to increase the 
award for this.
Similarly with the alarm box, the nature of the damage isnt very clear from the photos Mrs T 
provided. Shes not told us the damage to the alarm box has had any knock-on effect or 
even that the alarm is being used. I also have to bear in mind it wasnt noticed straight away 
so, again, theres a lack of evidence here. But in any event, it looks like the supplier is willing 
to help resolve things for her. In the round, that seems fair and Im not going to direct BPF to 
increase the award for this either.    
Therefore, for the reasons given above, to resolve the complaint, Im going to direct BPF to 
pay Mrs T £600. Based on the evidence I have, I dont find I have the grounds to direct it to 
do more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance must pay Mrs T £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman