DRN-1631881
 
complaint
Mr W says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in December 2002. Neither the mortgage nor the 
PPI were intended to start until 27 February 2003. Mr W paid a monthly amount for the 
policy and the policy provided a benefit in the event that Mr W lost his job.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said, including that he was told the mortgage was 
conditional upon him taking out the PPI policy. On the other hand, B&B has defended its 
sale of the policy in this regard. I dont doubt that Mr W has given us his best recollections of 
the events of the time. But both sides disagree. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when the sale happened over 17 years ago. Where 
there is missing, contradictory or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my 
decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look 
at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely 
happened.
I think B&B most likely made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it. I say that because B&B has provided the actual documentation from the time of 
the sale. To get the PPI Mr W had to complete an application form for it and a direct debit for 
the cover. These were separate to the application and direct debit Mr W had made for the re-
mortgage. So, it seems that the paperwork at the time suggested the PPI was separate to 
and not dependant on the application for the mortgage. Ive also considered that Mr Ws re-
mortgage was made to Nationwide through B&B as an intermediary. And that the application for the unemployment cover was made to B&B. So, its difficult to see how Mr W thought he 
had to apply to B&B for insurance to get a mortgage accepted with Nationwide. 
The mortgage offer doesnt speak about the unemployment insurance being a condition of 
the borrowing. And Ive not seen anything that clearly shows B&B didnt make Mr W aware 
the PPI was optional. So, whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as 
Mr W said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that B&B wouldve made 
Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Both parties agree that B&B recommended the PPI to Mr W. This meant B&B needed to 
take reasonable steps to find out about his needs and make sure the policy was suitable for 
him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances I think it was. I explain why I think 
that below. 
I think Mr W was eligible for the unemployment cover. Mr W thinks he wasnt. Mr W thinks he 
was ineligible for the policy as he told us he wasnt working at the time of the sale. I have 
noted that the mortgage application form dated 9 December 2002 and signed by Mr W 
described him as working and it gave details of the company Mr W said he wasnt yet 
working for. And Mr W has provided a contract of employment from that employer that 
shows his date of appointment to his new role was 2 December 2002. The mortgage 
application form is signed and dated 9 December 2002. So, the documentary evidence from 
the time suggests Mr W was working and therefore met that part of the eligibility criteria. 
And it doesnt look like Mr W wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, for example, any unusual employment terms. I say that whilst noting that in 
order to make a successful claim for unemployment Mr W would have had to have been in 
continuous employment for six months. Mr W has told us that he had a break between 
working for his previous employer and the employment he was taking up. Mr W thought it 
likely there was a gap in his employment which lasted for more than a couple of weeks. But 
there is no evidence that clarifies the length of the gap in service for us to see if it breaks the 
criteria of being viewed as continuous. 
Put another way, theres no evidence to support Mr Ws testimony that it might well have 
been a gap of longer than two weeks. So, I havent seen sufficient evidence to think that 
there was a gap in employment such that Mr W would have been unable to make a 
successful claim for unemployment had he needed to. 
In addition, even had Mr W not been able to make a claim initially on the policy, he would 
have been able to claim once he had worked for six months continuously. Mr W applied for 
the cover on 9 December 2002 and the mortgage and the policy had an expected start date 
of 27 February 2003. Under the terms of the policy, and similar to many PPI policies, no 
claim could be made on the PPI in the first 60 days after the policy started. So, even had 
there been a gap in continuous service at the time of the sale, by the time the policy would 
ordinarily be ready to accept an unemployment claim, Mr W would have had only a short 
wait to have qualified for the cover. So, I dont think this is a reason to make the policy 
unsuitable for Mr W. And I dont think that better information on this point would have put Mr 
W off the policy.
And I think Mr W would have had a need for the cover the policy could have provided him. I 
say that because Mr W had no savings or any other means he could rely on if he lost his job. 
Ive noted the re-mortgage was partly for debt consolidation. Mr W has told us he expected 
to inherit some funds a couple of years after the sale, but he didnt have those funds at the time of the sale. And the documents record that he planned to any inheritance to pay down 
the mortgage, so they may not have been available to use as an emergency fund. The PPI 
policy wouldve covered Mr W for up to 12 months if he lost his job. So, considering all of 
this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on his home, I 
think he couldve found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable.
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr W.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr W, B&B also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information B&B gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr W feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for him, and if the information he received was insufficient, then I dont 
think hes lost out because of anything B&B mayve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman