DRN-2819126
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard when he tried to contact it by phone. 
What happened
Mr A tried to contact Barclaycard three times by phone to discuss his credit card account.   
He says he was on hold for around six hours in total and his calls werent answered. And 
while waiting, the recorded message didnt provide a call back option or inform him where he 
was in the queue or how long the wait for the call to be answered would be. Unhappy with 
the service he received, Mr A complained to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard apologised for the longer than normal call waiting times Mr A experienced. But it 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong. Barclaycard said the long call waiting times were 
due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on its business operation which was outside of 
its control. Unhappy with the response he received, Mr A referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into it. But she didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She 
acknowledged that long call waiting times were frustrating and inconvenient. But she noted 
that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the service levels of all businesses and she 
thought Barclaycards apology was enough. 
Mr A didnt agree. He reiterated that the long call waiting times were unacceptable when 
account holders still needed to operate their accounts. He questioned why Barclaycard didnt 
have enough staff to take calls when staff were still able to work from home. And why the 
recorded message didnt provide more information about how long the wait would be or 
provide a call back option. The investigator explained that this service doesnt interfere with 
matters about staffing levels or how Barclaycard runs its business. And she didnt change 
the outcome she had reached.
As Mr A disagreed with the investigator, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision - having listened to the call between him 
and our investigator, I can see how strongly he feels about this matter. So, Ill explain why.
Firstly. I note that in its Final Response letter, Barclaycard also referred to issues about the 
handling of the closure of Mr As account. But Mr A hasnt mentioned this point when he 
referred his complaint to us or during his conversation with the investigator. So, for clarity, 
this decision solely relates to the call waiting times Mr A experienced. 
Its not clear why Mr A was calling Barclaycard. But Mr A hasnt said that he has lost out as a 
result of his calls not being answered. So, Ive concentrated on the inconvenience that he 
experienced due to the long waiting times as this appears to be the crux of the complaint 
here. 
I have no reason to doubt the amount of time Mr A says he spent on the phone trying to 
contact Barclaycard. And, in normal circumstances, I would agree with Mr A that this amount 
of time would generally be unacceptable. But, due to Covid-19 pandemic, Barclaycard 
wasnt operating in normal circumstances. And I think this is something I do have to have 
regard for.
Im aware that Barclaycard has a number of call centres outside of the UK as well as those 
in the UK. And that due to the pandemic it had to close its call centres in India. As a result of 
this, and because it had to adapt it call centres in the UK, its UK call centres were 
overwhelmed. 
Additionally, guidance issued by the regulator -The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a 
result of the pandemic, encouraged customers to telephone their bank (or use other 
communication methods) rather than attending a branch in person. So, taking this all into 
account, I dont think that longer call waiting times were unexpected given these 
circumstances.   
 
And the call waiting time Mr A has mentioned is spread across several phone calls. So, while 
I can understand that Mr A was annoyed that making these calls took longer than he would 
have liked, I dont think I can hold Barclaycard responsible for that given the circumstances 
outlined above. 
I can see from Barclaycards website that it explained various ways for customers to contact 
it during the pandemic  for example, on-line servicing and a mobile app. So, I think 
Barclaycard offered reasonable alternatives to enable account holders to access their 
accounts. I also note that Barclaycard operates a service status page on its website, which 
provides updates on how its various services are running. So, I think there were alternative 
ways for Mr A to find out about call waiting times.
 
I acknowledge Mr As comments about staffing levels and the quality of the content of the 
information being relayed in Barclaycards recorded messages. But we arent the regulator, 
and we dont tell the firms we deal with how to run their business. Our role is to decide if 
Barclaycard has done something substantially wrong which caused a financial loss or 
material distress and inconvenience. And, if so, what needs to be done to put things right. 
But we cant tell a business to employ more staff or what information should be provided on 
its recorded telephone messages.     
Barclaycard has acknowledged that the circumstances here caused Mr A some 
inconvenience and it has apologised. Given the wider circumstances at the time these 
events happened, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do 
anything more. 
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I think - in apologising 
for the inconvenience caused, Barclaycard has done enough. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman