DRN-4069172
The Complaint
Mr P says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Hitachi Capital) (Hitachi) didnt 
fairly or reasonably deal with a claim he made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to a holiday product he purchased on 31 October 2012 (the Time of Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, was Mr Ps to make because hes the 
person named on the credit agreement that gave rise to it. But as the holiday product at the 
centre of this complaint was in the names of Mr P and his wife (Mrs P), Ill refer to both of 
them at times in this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs P purchased membership of a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier) 
at the Time of Sale for £9,329  having traded in their Trial Membership. And they helped to 
pay for that purchase by taking a loan from Hitachi for £10,327 (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr and Mrs P complained to Hitachi in early 2022 and they 
gave the following reasons for why they were unhappy:
1. They had existing Trial Membership and they were asked to upgrade as their new 
ownership would be much easier to sell.
2. They tried selling their holiday product via a third party that was recommended by the 
Supplier. They paid £334 for six months of advertising. But they failed to sell.
3. They requested holidays on several occasions with no success.
Hitachi treated Mr and Mrs Ps concerns as a claim under Section 75 of the CCA and a 
complaint. And as a CCA claim, it thought that it had been made too late under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr and Mrs P then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in April 2022. 
And, having listened to the initial call between the Service and Mrs P, the crux of her 
concerns seems to me to have related to the difficulty she and Mr P say they had booking 
holiday accommodation.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
before her, concluded that a claim had been made by Mr P for misrepresentation. And, 
having done that, she went on to say that she thought that such a claim had been made out 
of time under the LA.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators assessment. While he acknowledged that Hitachis 
final response letter argued that his CCA claim had been made out of time under the LA, he 
suggested that he had started to make a claim in 2018 before going on to say that there 
were exceptional circumstances for why the claim was only made when it had been.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by what Mr P had to say in response to her assessment. 
So, she asked Mr P if he could provide any evidence to support what he said about starting 
his claim in 2018.
In response, Mr P said the following:
We made telephone calls back in 2018 and spoke to several people at [Hitachi] to send us 
statements of the loan payment of £3,994.92 so we could gather all the information we 
required to make the complaint we did not hear from them for another several months in 
2018. This statement only came to light when we approached the Ombudsman to deal with 
the issue in 2022.
Mr P also provided a copy of an email he and Mrs P sent to the Supplier in 2011 in an effort 
to cancel their Trial Membership as well as an email they got from the Supplier in 2015 in 
relation to their attempt to sell the membership at the centre of this complaint.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in which I said the following:
On my reading of this complaint, it relates almost entirely to the difficulty Mr and Mrs P say 
they had booking holidays in general. At no point has Mr P specified whether he thinks that 
amounted to a misrepresentation or breach of contract. But, given the nature of his and 
Mrs Ps main concern, the closest CCA claim, in my view, is for a breach of contract.
If that was the claim being made by Mr P, I can understand why he might think that the 
difficulty he and Mrs P had booking the accommodation they wanted to book amounts to a 
breach of contract. But that isnt the same as being deprived of something they were 
contractually entitled to. After all, theres nothing in the contract that suggests they were 
guaranteed accommodation wherever and whenever they wanted. And some of the 
paperwork from the Time of Sale says that the holiday accommodation was subject to 
availability.
Whats more, as Mr and Mrs P appear to have completed a couple of short stays using their 
membership after the Time of Sale and were able to make several reservations that were 
subsequently cancelled, Im not persuaded that the contract between them and the Supplier 
was breached.
And for that reason, given the information available to me, I dont currently think Hitachi has 
to do anything further in relation to the CCA claim that appears to have been made.
Hitachi had nothing further to add to this complaint in response to my PD. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed with what I had to say. And, in summary, without repeating the concerns they 
initially had, they said the Supplier had a code of conduct that it failed to meet because:
The Supplier hadnt used clear and appropriate marketing techniques. They werent told 
that they were going to a sales presentation for the purpose of selling them the holiday 
product in question.
They werent told that their sales presentation would take over 90 minutes  having been 
kept on the premises for hours on end.
They were pressured to make a decision on the day  having been told that the offer 
made to them was only available for that day. Every time they said no the purchase price 
was reduced. And they werent allowed to go away and think about the decision they had 
to make.
They werent contacted by Hitachi so that it could assess whether the money Mr P 
borrowed was affordable.They were sold the holiday product as an investment
They were told that they had to upgrade in order to elicit a resale under their purchase 
agreement  which never materialised.
The Supplier failed to deliver what was sold to them. 
Since becoming members, part of the Supplier went into liquidation, annual management 
charges went up by more than inflation and services that were sold to them werent 
provided.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has been and gone, the complaint was passed back 
to me to consider for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld insofar as it relates to 
Hitachis handling of a claim by Mr P for breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA. 
When I issued my PD, I thought the substance of this complaint concerned a claim for 
breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA. I still think thats the case now. And for the 
same reasons I gave in my PD, Im still not persuaded that the contract between 
Mr and Mrs P and the Supplier was breached as theres nothing in the contract that suggests 
they were guaranteed accommodation wherever and whenever they wanted it. So, I still 
dont think Hitachi has to do anything further in relation to its handling of the CCA claim 
made to it.
In response to my PD, Mr and Mrs P introduced a number of new allegations in relation to 
the sale of their holiday product and Hitachis decision to lend to Mr P. But as those 
represent separate complaints that werent put to Hitachi when this complaint was first made 
to it, it wouldnt be appropriate at this stage to issue a decision on those allegations  given 
all that a decision by an ombudsman entails  when Hitachi hasnt had a chance to consider 
them and neither side have provided submissions on them over and above Mr and Mrs Ps 
response to my PD. 
So, in the circumstances, I think Mr and Mrs Ps new allegations would be better dealt with 
as a separate complaint that Mr P first needs to make to Hitachi should he wish to.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint insofar as it relates to Hitachis 
handling of a claim by Mr P for breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman