DRN-4363981
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In summary: Mr C was approached by someone who convinced him to invest in 
cryptocurrency. Ill refer to this individual as V. Mr C says that contact was initially over the 
phone, however it moved to a messaging app. Mr C was told that he needed to set up 
cryptocurrency accounts and buy cryptocurrency, which V would help him do. As part of this 
Mr C was asked to download software to give V access to his computer and to send a copy 
of his passport for identification purposes. As a result, the following payments were made 
from Mr Cs account.
Date Time Transaction details Amount
15.9.2022 17:19 Payment to R £2,000 
15.9.2022 17:38 Payment to R £2,000 
15.9.2022 17:49 Payment to R £2,000 
16.9.2022 12:07 Payment to A £2,000 
16.9.2022 12:08 Payment to A £2,000 
16.9.2022 12:12 Payment to A £1,000 
20.9.2022 17:56 Payment to M £   850
Total loss £11,850
Mr C says that he believed the investment was genuine, as V sent him a copy of her 
passport as identification. Mr C became aware he was the victim of a scam when he tried to 
get his money back.
Mr C raised a fraud claim with Barclays. Barclays considered Mr Cs claim under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and agreed to 
refund 50% of his loss. They declined to refund the remaining 50% based on an exception to 
reimbursement, saying that Mr C didnt make reasonable checks to ensure the investment 
was genuine. Barclays were able to recover £292.92 from one of the beneficiary banks, 
which they paid to Mr C.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator agreed that 
Barclays could rely on an exception to reimbursement, so considered what theyd already 
refunded Mr C was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying he shouldnt be held liable for his loss 
as he was the victim of a scam. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays are a signatory to the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Barclays say Mr C made the payment without having 
a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting 
to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Just for clarity, its unclear if Mr C made the payments himself, or whether he allowed V to 
make the payments through the software he downloaded and with his authorisation. 
However, Im satisfied that Mr C did authorise the payments and was aware that they were 
being made. This means his payments are covered by the CRM Code.
Having considered the information carefully, I agree that Barclays can apply an exception to 
reimbursement for the following reasons:
Mr C was told that he could make £20,000, which would mean he would double his 
money. This return was too good to be true and shouldve concerned him.
Mr C was told to download software which allowed V to access his computer and to 
supervise or make the payments as part of the scam. Mr C shouldve questioned why 
a legitimate business would want this sort of access to his computer, including his 
private bank account information.
While Mr C thought he was investing with a company, most of the payments were 
made to two individual payees who werent related to V or the company he thought 
he was investing with. Mr C shouldve been concerned and questioned this. Its also 
not clear why the two separate payees needed to be set up.
Its unclear why V would send Mr C a copy of her passport. This is unusual and I 
wouldnt expect someone working for a genuine company to share personal 
identification documents with a customer/investor.
Having taken all of the above points into consideration as a whole, I think Mr C shouldve 
been concerned about what V was telling him and whether it was a legitimate investment 
opportunity. This means that Mr C is considered partially liable for his loss under the CRM 
Code.
Barclays have already accepted that they havent met their obligations under the CRM Code 
and have refunded 50%, which is what I wouldve recommended.
Barclays contacted the beneficiary banks to try and recover Mr Cs funds. However, only 
£292.92 was recoverable, which has been paid to Mr C. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that Barclays have taken appropriate steps to try and recover Mr Cs funds.
I appreciate that Mr C has fallen victim to a scam, however that doesnt mean that he is 
entitled to a full refund or that Barclays can be fairly held liable for his entire loss. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C, but I cant fairly ask Barclays to pay him any further money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman