DRN-4329243
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly 
when it approved a credit card application he made. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr M applied for a credit card with Tesco Bank. In his application, Mr M 
confirmed he is a homeowner and employed full time with an income of £31,000. Tesco 
Bank says it carried out a credit search and found evidence of four searches against his 
name in the previous six months. 
Tesco Bank found a default for £3,100 that was 41 months old at the time of application. The 
credit file information showed Mr M owed £1,686 in loans and £2,225 towards credit cards 
as well as a mortgage. Tesco Bank used a monthly credit commitment cost of £586 for Mr 
Ms mortgage and £129 for his other debts. 
Tesco Bank says Mr M was applying for a Foundation Credit Builder credit card. Tesco Bank 
reviewed Mr Ms application and approved a credit card with a limit of £250. Mr M accepted 
the credit agreement and went on to use the credit card. 
Earlier this year, Mr M complained that Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly when it approved 
his credit card application. Mr M said his credit file wouldve showed he was in financial 
difficulties when he applied and that Tesco Bank had failed to complete reasonable due 
diligence. Tesco Bank didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. 
An investigator at this service reviewed Mr Ms complaint. They werent persuaded that 
Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ms case. Mr M asked to appeal so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it should ensure 
the checks are borrower focused and proportionate when considering things like: the type 
and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances.
In this case, when Mr M applied to Tesco Bank he provided information about his personal 
circumstances and finances. I can see the application records Mr Ms employment and 
income as well as his residential status and mortgage payments. Tesco Banks application 
data shows it also applied a regular outgoings figure to assess whether Mr M was able to 
sustainably manage payments in addition to his other commitments.
Mr Ms told us that Tesco Bank failed to take the contents of his credit file into account, 
including the number of searches that were carried out. But the credit report Tesco Bank 
obtained included the number of hard credit searches recorded for Mr M. So Im satisfied 
that information was considered when assessing his application. In addition, Tesco Bank 
found Mr M had a default that was over three years old at the time of application. No other 
adverse information was found. And I can see Tesco Bank factored Mr Ms regular credit 
commitments that were found on his credit file into account when assessing his application. 
Im satisfied Tesco Bank was aware of the information contained on Mr Ms credit file 
including how much he owed. 
I think its fair to note that the credit card application was approved with a limit of £250 which 
is reasonably modest. In my view, Tesco Bank had a reasonable expectation that the 
information Mr M provided in his application was correct. And Im satisfied Tesco Bank 
completed proportionate checks before approving Mr Ms credit card with a £250 limit. Given 
the amount and type of credit Mr M was applying for, Im satisfied reasonable checks were 
completed to show whether Mr M was able to sustainably maintain repayments. Having 
considered all the available information, I havent been persuaded that Tesco Bank lent 
irresponsibly. 
Mr M also raised several points concerning how his credit card had been administered by 
Tesco Bank and the charges and fees he incurred. Like the investigator, I havent seen 
anything that shows charges or fees have been incorrectly applied or that Tesco Bank 
provided misleading or confusing information about them in its credit agreement. Mr M 
raised concerns about a delay in transactions appearing on his account and the time taken 
to discuss this with Tesco Bank. 
Tesco Bank accepted some of the service provided wasnt up to standard and paid him £75 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied that Tesco Bank has already agreed 
a settlement that fairly reflects Mr Ms experience so Im not telling it to do anything else. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as I havent found that Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly, and 
Im satisfied its already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman