DRN-3195340
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Ts complaint is about the way Santander UK Plc handled their request for a
payment freeze on their loan repayments. The loan in question is a joint loan held by
Mrs and Mr T.
What happened
In April 2020, Mrs T contacted Santander because she and Mr T experienced difficulties
making their repayments due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Although Santander
set up a payment freeze, it didnt start until May and Mrs T wasnt aware of this. So their
April repayment was missed  Mrs T made this payment several months later but a late
payment marker was recorded against her and Mr T.
Mrs T complained because she was of the understanding that the payment freeze period
began from April. Shes unhappy that adverse information has been recorded against them
because this impacted their financial circumstances further. Mrs T says Mr T was unable to
finance a new vehicle to use for work and had to incur significant costs in repairing his
existing vehicle. She added that what Santander did impacted her health further, given she
already suffered from a mental health condition. Around the time, Mrs T experienced a
bereavement and says what Santander did only added to her upset and distress.
Mrs T is also unhappy because she tried to contact Santander multiple times via branch and
phone in March 2020 but was unable to speak with anyone.
Santander explained that the payment freeze start date is based on the interest dates of the
loan  so the payment freeze took effect from the next interest date (1 May 2020) rather than
the next repayment date  which was sooner. As a result, Mrs and Mr T missed their April
repayment and, although it was eventually paid, adverse information about the April
repayment was recorded on their credit files. Santander added that the circumstances
surrounding the pandemic meant it had to operate at a reduced capacity on the phones and
in branches.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs T escalated the complaint to this service. Before one of our
adjudicators considered the complaint, Santander decided to offer Mrs and Mr T £50
compensation because it identified that it couldve provided a better service when Mrs T 
called in April. Our adjudicator decided that Santander shouldve started the payment freeze
straight away and asked the bank to remove the adverse information recorded on Mrs and
Mr Ts credit file. The adjudicator also asked the bank to increase its compensation award to
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr T and backdate the payment
freeze to March  when Mrs T first tried to contact Santander.
Although Santander agreed with the compensation figure, it didnt agree to backdate the
payment freeze to March as it says this facility wasnt available then. As a goodwill gesture,
Santander offered to clear Mrs and Mr Ts credit file for May and June 2020.
Mrs and Mr T didnt agree and because an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has
been passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional findings on this matter:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new guidelines to support customers
facing difficulties because of the pandemic. These guidelines came into force in April 2020
and required firms to offer a payment freeze on loans and credit cards for up to three months
for customers negatively impacted by the pandemic; and ensure customers using the
payment freeze measures will not have their credit file affected.
Mrs T first spoke with Santander on 6 April and was informed that the payment freeze facility
would be available from later that week, which is in line with when the FCAs guidelines
came into force. Mrs T later made arrangements to pay the balance owed for March.
Santander says Mrs T requested the payment freeze on 10 April and it was applied from the
repayment due in May. But Mrs Ts repayments were due on the 28th of each month, so its
not unreasonable that she expected the payment freeze to start from the April repayment.
Im of the opinion that Santander shouldve put the payment freeze in place from April.
Mrs and Mr T clearly needed support around the time and they requested the payment
freeze well in advance of the April repayment date. I note what Santander says about
interest dates determining when the payment freeze would start from. But the essence of the
FCA guidelines are to ensure customers are appropriately supported if they experience
difficulties due to the pandemic. I think its far from reasonable that Santander applied the
payment freeze from May when Mrs and Mr Ts next repayment was due a few weeks after
their request.
Santander says it sent Mrs T an email confirming the payment freeze period. Mrs T says she
missed this email and understood the payment freeze to have begun in April. Santander
couldnt provide a copy of the actual email and instead sent us multiple templates to
demonstrate what was sent to Mrs T. All the templates are different and none are specific to
Mrs and Mr Ts payment freeze, so its difficult to conclude which version was used or what
was said in the email to Mrs T.
One of the templates explain if you contacted us more than 10 days before your loan
repayment was due  this starts immediately. I cant say for certain that this template was
used in the email to Mrs T. But this wording makes Santanders comments  that the
payment freeze start date being dependent on the interest dates  seem less persuasive to
me. It makes me think it was indeed possible for Santander to start Mrs and Mr Ts payment
freeze from the April repayment. So I think Santander couldve done more to put the 
payment freeze in place sooner.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Santander to start the payment freeze in March. The FCA
guidelines werent in place then and Mrs T didnt actually speak to Santander until after the
March repayment date had passed. So I dont expect Santander to have backdated the
payment freeze at the time.
Mrs T says she did try to get in touch with Santander sooner and is unhappy she faced
difficulties doing so. She says she faced branch closures and long periods on hold while on
the phone. Santander says its service was impacted by the pandemic, so its branches and
phone service operated at reduced capacity. I recognise this wouldve been frustrating and
upsetting for Mrs T, especially given she had to deal with a bereavement around the time.
But I cant fairly conclude that Santander did something wrong here. The pandemic
presented unexpected difficulties for all businesses and, more importantly, many customersfaced financial difficulties around the time. And its understandable that phone lines were
significantly busier than usual. Mrs T says she was able to request a payment freeze with
other lenders online. But the FCA guidelines didnt require Santander to offer the payment
freeze facility before the date the guidelines came into force nor was it a requirement for
Santander to have the option to apply online. So I dont think Santander treated Mrs T
unfairly because of this.
Mrs T says the impact of having adverse information on their credit files meant Mr T couldnt
finance a new vehicle for work and had to pay significant costs to repair his existing vehicle.
Mrs T wants Santander to refund these costs. I havent seen anything regarding Mr Ts
finance application and why it may have failed. So I cant say for certain that the late
payment marker for April is the main cause for Mr T being unable to finance a new vehicle.
Although I empathise with Mr Ts situation, I cant fairly conclude that Santander is liable for
these costs, because I cant see that theres a reasonable link between what Santander has
done wrong and Mr Ts vehicle needing repairs. Its unfortunate Mr T had to bear the vehicle
repair costs during a difficult financial period, but I dont intend to ask Santander to refund
these costs.
Mrs T suffers from a mental health condition and she says the situation made her ill. She
also suffered a bereavement around the time and says that Santander added to the upset
and stress shed already been experiencing  especially as she was trying to arrange the
payment freeze whilst dealing with her loss.
Santander acknowledges its service to Mrs T lacked empathy during the call that took place
in April - and I agree. Had Santander put the payment freeze in place from April, Mrs T
wouldnt have missed that months repayment and the payment freeze period wouldve run
as she expected. The FCA guidelines were created to protect people whose credit files
would otherwise never have been at risk  instead though, Mrs and Mr Ts credit file had
adverse information recorded on it when it shouldnt have. So I intend to ask Santander to
pay them compensation for the distress it caused.
In summary, Mrs T requested the payment freeze well ahead of the next repayment date in
April. So, in my opinion, Santander shouldve started the payment freeze from then. Its
unfortunate Mrs T experienced difficulties contacting Santander during what was a
challenging time for all businesses and I empathise with the other costs Mr T had to incur 
but I dont think Santander did anything unfair in relation to this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision, accepting the outcome Id reached. So 
theres no further points I need to address.
Putting things right
Santander shouldve started Mrs and Mr Ts payment freeze in April. So Santander should:
Treat Mrs and Mr Ts account as if the payment freeze started in April  Santander 
told us that no refunds would be due if the payment freeze is backdated to April.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs and Mr Ts credit file because the 
payment freeze didnt start in April  Santander says it has already completed this 
action.Pay Mrs and Mr T a total of £400 compensation (inclusive of the £50 already offered) 
for the distress it caused them.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Should Mrs and Mr T accept my 
decision, Santander UK Plc should settle the complaint in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman