DRN-3364230
The complaint
Ms G complains about her bank, Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (Halifax), regarding a 
joint current account she had with her husband. Shes unhappy that Halifax allowed her 
husband to close the account without her consent.
What happened
Ms G was in an abusive relationship with her husband, and shes explained how this pattern 
of abuse developed over a number of years. 
In May 2021 Ms G found out that the contact details for her personal credit card had been 
changed by her husband to his own details. Concerned at what had happened, Ms G visited 
a Halifax branch to find out how her details had been changed without her knowledge. Ms G 
says that she took a family member along for support, given she wanted to tell Halifax about 
the abuse shed suffered. Ms G says that Halifax couldnt confirm when the changes to her 
details had been made, but thought it was likely it happened through her smartphone (using 
the mobile banking app).
At the time, Ms G was in the process of separating from her husband and the only other 
access to banking was through a joint current account that she had with her husband. Given 
this, she opened a sole current account in her name. But she wanted the joint account to 
remain open so she could receive child support payments from her husband. But Ms G then 
found that the joint account had been closed by her husband without her knowledge. This 
meant she had to give details of her sole account to her husband to receive child support 
payments. She was worried that her husband might be able to access the account.
Unhappy at Halifax closing the joint account, she complained. Halifax declined her 
complaint, saying in their final response that the account was closed at the branch and there 
were no indicators in place about a dispute between the account holders. Given this, Halifax 
concluded the branch followed the correct process, as the account conditions allowed either 
party to close the account. But Halifax did say that theyd arranged for the closing balance 
on the account to be transferred to Ms Gs sole account (£13.51).
Ms G then complained to this service about Halifax closing the joint account as she wanted it 
to remain open to receive child support payments. She said the way Halifax handled her 
concerns had caused her stress and she wanted compensation for this.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Halifax hadnt acted unfairly. 
She understood Ms Gs unhappiness and didnt doubt shed told Halifax about the abuse 
shed suffered (even though it wasnt recorded). But the investigator thought that had a 
marker been applied to the account to reflect what Ms G had said (which would have 
prevented the account from being closed) it would have also meant that the account couldnt 
have been used to receive child support payments. In these circumstances, the investigator 
didnt think she could ask Halifax to do anything differently.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She thought Halifax should change its policy where one party to a joint 
account requests closure of the account, to give notice of the closure to the other party. In 
Ms Gs case, that would have meant giving her notice of her husbands intention to close the 
account. She was also unhappy that because she had set up a sole account after the joint 
account had been closed, Halifax werent able to provide the switching service that would 
have enabled the transfer of direct debits and standing orders from the joint account to her 
sole account (she would have to manually set up the direct debits and standing orders on 
her sole account).
In my findings, I concluded that given what happened when Ms Gs husband changed the 
contact details on her personal credit card, I didnt think it unreasonable for Ms G to want 
reassurance on this issue, as a customer whos potentially more vulnerable to a security 
breach. Halifax said that her husband would need much more information that just the 
account details to access Ms Gs account. They also said that they would not speak to 
anybody else about her account without her permission. While I thought this gave some 
reassurance, I thought Halifax could consider other options and that they should respond on 
this specific point.
 
I also considered what Ms G told us about her experience being stressful and her asking for 
compensation. While I thought the outcome in the circumstances of the case was likely to 
have been the same, as I concluded that on balance Ms G told Halifax about her 
circumstances (including the domestic abuse) but that this wasnt recorded by the branch, I 
concluded this led to distress for Ms G (and potentially some inconvenience). Taking 
account all the circumstances of the case, I thought £100 for distress and inconvenience 
would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions to the investigator, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further, in particular to ask Halifax about 
what they might be able to do to provide reassurance to Ms G about the security of her 
account. This is set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered very carefully what Ms G has told us about her circumstances and the nature 
of the domestic abuse she suffered from her husband, including his controlling behaviour. I 
recognise that this was very difficult for her. This has been at the forefront of my mind when 
reaching this decision and I hope what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached this decision.
There are several aspects to Ms Gs complaint, which Ive considered in turn. First, theres 
the closure of the joint account that Ms G had with her husband. Ms G is unhappy that her 
husband was able to close the account without her knowledge or consent, which she wanted 
to remain open to receive child support payments. This meant Ms G had to set up a sole 
account and provide him with details of it to enable the payments to continue. Halifax say 
they followed the correct procedure as the account terms and conditions provided for either 
party to initiate closure of the account. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account held by Ms G and her husband. The 
terms and conditions state that Up to two account holders on an either to sign basis only. 
This meant that either party could carry out transactions on the account  it didnt need the 
approval or agreement of both parties. Theres also the following condition under Part C  
General, 10.1 Joint customers where it states:
(a) We can accept the instructions or signature of either or any one of you. For 
example, either or any one may make a withdrawal or close your account. If you have a joint account and you tell us that you only want to accept instructions from bothof 
you (and not just from one of you) bothof you must contact us. We may then close 
your account and, if we choose, offer each of you the opportunity to open a new 
account in just your name.
My reading of this condition is that the joint account could be closed by either signatory, 
unless both parties had asked that both parties would need to agree to close an account. 
Ive not seen any indication that this latter condition applied to Ms Gs joint account. So, Ive 
concluded that in accepting Ms Gs husbands request to close the joint account, Halifax 
were acting in accordance with the account terms and conditions. Ive also noted a similar 
condition to (a) above applies where Halifax become aware of a dispute between the parties. 
The account is then frozen and Halifax are able (if the dispute cannot be resolved) to close 
the account (and offer the parties the opportunity to open a sole account)  but this would 
mean the account would be frozen while the dispute was resolved. And this in turn would 
mean it couldnt be used for Ms G to receive and withdraw child support payments. So I 
dont think this would have assisted Ms G either.
In Ms Gs case, she says she told Halifax about the domestic abuse she had suffered when 
she visited the branch in May 2021. The case notes provided by Halifax record that she 
visited the branch that she told us she visited (and that her contact details were amended). 
But the case notes dont record that Ms G told them about the domestic abuse (or any 
dispute with her husband). Halifax say that as there was no marker on the joint account to 
indicate a dispute, there was no reason for them not to follow Ms Gs husbands request to 
close the account.
 
Ive considered both views carefully. On balance, as the evidence supports her visiting the 
branch in question when she said she did (and shes described to us the reason for the visit 
in some detail) Im inclined to believe that she did mention her circumstances, including the 
domestic abuse. But that it wasnt recorded as such by Halifax.
 
Given that conclusion, Ive gone on to consider what Halifax wouldve done - under their 
guidelines on cases involving domestic and financial abuse provided to this service  had 
the domestic abuse been recorded, as well as what I think they should fairly have done. The 
guidelines indicate that, if appropriate, they should offer to block the account (to stop any 
further transactions). The guidelines also indicate that they should discuss the option of 
opening an alternative account that can be used to receive income and paying bills. 
As I say, thats what the terms and conditions, and Halifaxs policy, say. Based on that, I 
dont think Halifax did anything wrong. But thats not the end of the matter  I also need to go 
on to think about whether, notwithstanding the terms and conditions, Halifax treated Ms G 
fairly in her specific circumstances.
 
Thinking about what happened in the circumstances of Ms Gs case then, had a dispute 
marker been applied (to reflect the domestic abuse) the account would have been likely to 
have been frozen, meaning that no transactions  including receipt of child support 
payments  could have taken place. As Ms G opened a sole account in her name, then this 
is the same position that she would have been in under the guidelines (the opening of an 
alternative account). In other words, the outcome would have been the same. That is, the 
joint account would have been frozen (then closed) and Ms G would have had a sole 
account into which her child support payments could be made. I dont think that was unfair  
while I understand why Ms G wanted to keep the joint account, I dont think its fair to expect 
Halifax to keep an account active when one of the joint holders doesnt want that to happen.
 
Ms G also raised concerns about her husband having details of her sole account and the risk 
that he might be able to access the account. I appreciate that, given the experiences Ms G has described to us, this is a concern for her. I know that Halifax have systems, processes 
and safeguards in place to ensure the security of accounts (there is a specific Security 
section within the account terms and conditions that set out how Halifax ensure that 
accounts are secure and prevent unauthorised access).
 
But given what happened when Ms Gs husband changed the contact details on her 
personal credit card, I dont think its unreasonable for Ms G to want reassurance on this 
issue, as a customer whos potentially more vulnerable to a security breach. Given this, we 
asked Halifax what reassurance they could give Ms G on this point. They said that her 
husband would need much more information that just the account details to access Ms Gs 
account. They also said that they would not speak to anybody else about her account 
without her permission. 
While I think this gives some reassurance to Ms G, I think Halifax could consider other 
options, for example enhanced security checks if anyone tries to access her account or help 
Ms G change the security information on her account. A second sole account for her general 
banking requirements other than to receive child support payments might be another option.
 
As a provisional decision, Id want Halifax to respond on this specific point and the potential 
options set out above. Ill consider their response when reaching my final decision. 
Ms G also says that she couldnt use the Halifax switching service to transfer her standing 
orders and direct debits from the joint account to her sole account. I can understand that this 
added to her stress at what was a difficult time. However, the switching service is primarily 
intended to operate in the circumstances where a consumer moves their account from 
another bank to Halifax.
 
While it also would apply where a consumer changes their current account while remaining 
with Halifax, theyve confirmed that it isnt available in the circumstances where a consumer 
sets up a sole account and wants to transfer direct debits and standing orders to the account 
from a joint account. Thats because not all the direct debits and standing orders on the joint 
account will be relevant to the sole account (they may relate to the other party to the joint 
account). Therefore, the consumer has to transfer those direct debits and standing orders 
that they require (or are relevant to them) themselves. While I appreciate this means Ms G 
had to do this herself, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to operate this policy.
Ms G has also told us her experience has been stressful and has asked for compensation. 
Ive thought about this, given the conclusions Ive reached on each of the points in Ms Gs 
complaint. While I consider that the outcome in the circumstances of the case is likely to 
have been the same, given that Ive concluded that on balance Ms G told Halifax about her 
circumstances (including the domestic abuse) but that this wasnt recorded by the branch, I 
think this has led to distress for Ms G (and potentially some inconvenience). Taking account 
all the circumstances of the case, I think that £100 for distress and inconvenience would be 
fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Ms Gs complaint in 
part. I intend to require Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax to:
Pay Ms G £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ms G responded to say that she had no further comment and accepted the outcome in the 
provisional decision. She added that she would continue to work with groups supporting 
victims of coercive control and financial abuse to ensure they are better served by their 
financial institutions. 
Halifax responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision and accepted the 
proposal to pay Ms G £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused to her.
On the specific question about reassurance to Ms G about the security of her account, 
Halifax responded to say that they have procedures in place to prevent any third-party 
access to a customers details and changing them. But they couldnt add additional security 
to online and telephone banking services as they already had relevant safeguards in place. 
They added that customers are responsible for ensuring security details, such as passwords, 
are not known to, or easily guessed by others. They also noted that as Ms Gs joint account 
was now closed, there was now no linked relationship with her ex-husband. This removed 
one potential risk of her ex-husband updating her details.
Halifax did say that one option open to Ms G  if she provided them with clear authority  
was for them to add a support note to her profile. A support note would alert a staff member 
that might need to deal with a customer that there is the potential for customer vulnerability 
or need for additional support. A support note could also help staff better understand a 
customers circumstances ahead of any dealings with them and to provide the opportunity to 
offer additional support where needed. If a customer didnt give specific permission to record 
their support need, Halifax would only be able to place a generic note on the profile to 
highlight potential support needs (but not what the specific vulnerability might be).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Ms G and Halifax responded to say, respectively, that she had no further comment 
and accepted the outcome, and that they agreed with my provisional decision and accepted 
the proposal to pay Ms G £100 for any distress and inconvenience, then I havent changed 
my mind on my findings and conclusions. So, my final decision remains the same, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
On the question of reassurance and potential options Halifax might provide to Ms G, I think 
the support note option is reasonable. But thats something Ms G would need to consider 
and potentially discuss with Halifax. And it would be for her to decide whether its something 
shed want to be put in place - its not something for me to require Halifax to put in place.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Ms Gs complaint in part. I 
require Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax to:
Pay Ms G £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman