DRN-4052972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt make it clear what 
information needed to be submitted for an overseas transfer to be successfully processed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G instructed Nationwide to transfer a sum of money to an overseas recipient. 
But the recipient didnt receive the money. And when Mr and Mrs G asked about this, they 
learned the transfer had been rejected because a type of bank identification number (BIN) 
which was specific to the overseas territory in question hadnt been included by them in the 
instruction. Mr and Mrs G werent happy about this, especially as Nationwide hadnt 
indicated that a BIN of that type would be required. So, they raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded and explained that their transfer form included a section for additional 
information such as a region-specific BIN to be included, and that it was Mr and Mrs Gs 
responsibility to have checked with the overseas recipient bank exactly what information 
would be required. Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with Nationwides response, so they 
referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr and Mrs G remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G feel that Nationwide should have provided clear information as to exactly what 
was required to enable the transfer to the overseas recipient to successfully complete. 
But due to the nature of international transfers, there isnt one single standard that will allow 
all instructed transfers to complete. This is because there can be instances when specific 
countries will have different and potentially unique requirements, depending on the 
particulars of a transfer in question. And given the large number of overseas territories and 
the variety of transfers that might take place, I dont feel its reasonable to expect a bank to 
have a log of all eventualities and requirements, as Mr and Mrs G feel should be the case.  
Rather, while there are systems in place to make international transfers easier  such as the 
SWIFT system that was used in this instance  it remains the responsibility of the party 
instructing the transfer to ensure that all the required information is presented to the sending 
bank to enable a transfer to be successful.
Having reviewed Nationwides international transfer form, I feel that this point is made clear 
on that form. Specifically, I note that the information field titled Reference number/Additional 
information includes the following explanation:
Some countries ask for more details when you send money. To avoid your payment 
being delayed or rejected, check if you need to include extra information.
I feel that this statement explains that the responsibility for understanding the transfer 
requirements of the overseas recipient bank, including whether any region-specific BIN is 
required, rests with the sending party  in this instance Mr and Mrs G. As such, I feel it was 
for Mr and Mrs G to have contacted the intended recipient bank and to have confirmed with 
them what was required. And I feel that if Mr and Mrs G had done this, its likely the 
overseas bank would have provided the required region-specific BIN to them.   
Matters are slightly complicated here by the fact that the transfer was routed through an 
intermediary bank based in the overseas territory of the recipient bank. This meant that the 
final leg of the transfer was effectively a domestic transfer within that overseas territory. And 
it's for such domestic transfers within that country that the region-specific BIN is required.
Mr and Mrs G argue they had no way of knowing that Nationwide would route the transfer 
through an overseas intermediary which would mean that the final leg of the transfer would 
be an overseas domestic leg for which a BIN was required. But its at the discretion of both 
the sending bank and the recipient bank as to whether the use of an intermediary bank for a 
transfer is required by them. 
In this instance, it appears that both Nationwide and the recipient bank instructed the use of 
intermediary banks  hence the fact that two intermediary banks were used. But importantly, 
it was the overseas recipient bank that insisted upon the use of the second of these 
intermediary banks  the intermediary bank in its own territory  which resulted in the 
requirement for the region-specific BIN. Nationwide couldnt have known this would have 
been the case. And as explained previously, it was Mr and Mrs Gs responsibility, as the 
sending party, to have checked what information the overseas recipient bank would require. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs G were wanting, but it follows from all the 
above that I dont feel that Nationwide have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here, and 
this means that I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope Mr and Mrs G will understand, 
given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman