DRN-2488734
The complaint
Mr S believes that the credit card offered to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, was unaffordable for him and so was offered irresponsibly. Mr S also believes 
his mental health issues should have been taken into consideration at the time that the credit 
card was offered to him.
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card with Barclays in December 2017. The application was 
approved, and Mr S was issued a credit card with a credit limit of £400.
In February 2019, Mr S spoke with Barclays and explained that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. Mr S also explained that he was struggling with mental health issues at 
that time. In response, Barclays agreed to freeze the interest and charges on Mr Ss account 
and referred the account to their specialist support team to manage.
In May 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr S advising that if he was unable to meet the contractual 
payments the credit agreement would be terminated, and a default would be recorded 
against Mr Ss credit file. Mr S was unable to meet the contractual payments and the 
account was defaulted in July 2019. Following this, Mr Ss account was sold by Barclays to a 
debt purchasing company.
Mr S wasnt happy with how Barclays had acted, and he felt that the credit card was 
unaffordable for him at the time he had applied for it, and also that his mental health issues 
should have been taken into account, so he raised a complaint. 
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint. They noted that Mr S had passed the credit checks that 
they had conducted when he applied for the card, and also that they had not been made 
aware of Mr Ss mental health issues until February 2019. Barclays also felt that they had 
managed Mr Ss account appropriately after Mr S had informed them of his financial 
difficulties, including defaulting the account and selling the debt to a debt purchasing 
company. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt think that it was reasonable 
to have expected Barclays to take account of Mr Ss mental health problems at the time of 
the credit card application, because Barclays hadnt been made aware of them. 
Our investigator also felt that there was nothing in Mr Ss credit card application, including 
the credit checks that Barclays undertook, that should have caused Barclays to conclude 
that the credit card may be unaffordable for Mr S at that time. 
Finally, our investigator thought that Barclays had managed Mr Ss account appropriately 
after being told of his financial difficulties. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint either.
Mr S remained unhappy, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint, but after thoroughly considering the 
circumstances here I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for 
essentially the same reasons.
I realise that Mr S thinks that the credit card was offered to him irresponsibly by Barclays and 
that they should have understood that the credit was unaffordable for him at that time. 
However, having looked at all the evidence from both sides, I think Barclays did enough to 
ensure that they were offering credit responsibly and affordably here.
 
It's for a business to decide whether it will provide credit to someone and, if so, how much 
and on what terms. What we'd expect is that a business carries out reasonable and 
proportionate checks as to the affordability of any credit being offered. I think that Barclays 
have done that here. They took details from Mr S of his financial circumstances at that time, 
and they conducted credit checks to make sure that Mr S wasnt in recorded financial 
difficulty at the time of the application.
Its also notable that the credit card account was managed by Mr S without incident for over 
a year, until February 2019, and that when Mr S spoke to Barclays he advised that it was a 
change in circumstances - specifically Mr S losing his job - which was a  key factor in Mr S 
no longer being able to meet the necessary credit repayments.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that the credit was unaffordable for Mr S at the time that 
he applied for it. Indeed, the information I have available to me suggests that the credit was 
affordable for Mr S at the time of the application, but then became unaffordable later, when 
Mr Ss circumstances changed. 
Mr S has also stated that he believes his mental health issues should have been taken into 
consideration by Barclays at the time of the application. Mental health struggles are always 
an emotive issue, and I realise that they can have a significant effect on a persons life and 
their ability to manage financially. But from what Ive seen, Barclays werent made aware by 
Mr S that he had mental health issues when he applied for the credit card, and its not 
industry practice to ask an applicant whether they have such issues, and so this isnt 
something that I can reasonably expect Barclays to have considered at that time.
Finally, I have thought about how Barclays managed Mr Ss account once he informed them 
that he was struggling to meet the contractual payments. In such circumstances it is 
expected that a business treats its customer positively and sympathetically. Barclays put a 
freeze on the interest and charges on the account so that Mr S wouldnt fall further into debt, 
and they held the account for some time to give Mr S an opportunity to bring the account 
back into line. So, Im satisfied that Barclay did take positive actions to give Mr S an 
opportunity to recover from the financial difficulties he found himself in.
But a credit provider is not obliged to put a hold on account fees and charges indefinitely. 
Once it became clear that Mr S would continue to be unable to meet the payment 
obligations, Barclays were within their rights to issue a default notice which gave Mr S a final 
opportunity to make the necessary payments, and then to default the account when the 
required payments werent made. This is an appropriate process to follow when it becomes 
clear that a customer will most likely not be able to meet the obligations of their credit 
agreement, one aspect of which is to ensure that a consumer doesnt remain indebted to a company indefinitely with little prospect of recovery, and so I cant fairly say that Barclays 
have acted unreasonably in following this process.
Barclays were also within their rights to have sold Mr Ss account to a debt purchasing 
company. While I can understand that Mr S may not be happy that this has occurred, it must 
be noted that debt purchasing companies often have greater leeway to offer more flexible 
and longer-term repayment plans that an original credit provider can offer, which can 
sometimes be of benefit to people struggling financially.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that this wont be the 
outcome that Mr S wanted, but having considered all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
cant conclude that Barclays have acted unreasonably or unfairly to Mr S, either at the time 
of the credit card application, or in how Barclays managed Mr Ss account after Mr S 
became unable to meet the contractual payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman