DRN-2977308
The complaint
Mr D says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mr D took out an MBNA credit card in September 1996  it did not have PPI added to it at
this time. A few years later, in July 2002, a PPI policy was applied to Mr Ds account during a
phone call.
The policy cost 68p per £100 of Mr Ds outstanding monthly statement balance. If he was
made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 3% of that balance for up to 12 months
per claim. Or, if he was off sick from work, it would have paid off the same amount until he
returned to work, or the outstanding balance was repaid in full.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
and said that the lack of evidence does not prove that he knowingly agreed to the PPI. Mr D
provided similar comments about another ombudsmans provisional decision. 
The case was then passed to me to decide and I issued a provisional decision on 15 July 
2021 and explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Below is an extract of 
what I said:
MBNA had to make it clear to Mr D that the policy was optional. And it had to get his 
consent before it applied PPI to his account. MBNA says it would have done this, but Mr D 
says he would not have agreed to take PPI.
Due to the length of time thats passed since the sale took place, its not possible to listen to
a recording of the phone call Mr D had with MBNA. But Ive seen a copy of a script MBNA
says its representatives were advised to follow during phone sales. The script is consistent
with my knowledge of how MBNA sold PPI around this time and I think its more likely than
not that it was broadly followed. The wording prompted the representative to ask, Do I have
your verbal confirmation that you would like me to add the cover to your MBNA account?
which I think makes it clear the policy was optional.
Following this, MBNA says the PPI would have shown on Mr Ds monthly statements. 
Over the years, Ive seen a number of MBNA credit card statements which clearly show
when PPI is being charged. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr D would have seen
PPI being charged to his account, particularly as he had already had the card for a number
of years without this payment being deducted from his balance. If Mr D hadnt agreed to take
the PPI, I would have expected him to have raised this with MBNA much sooner.
Ive considered Mr Ds comments that a lack of evidence doesnt prove he agreed to take
PPI. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I think its more likely than not that Mr D knew
he had a choice about taking PPI and that he agreed to take it during his call with MBNA.
The sale took place over 18 years ago, so its understandable if Mr D doesnt remember this
now.
MBNA says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr D and Mr D hasnt said anything to make
me think it did. This means MBNA didnt have to check the policy was suitable for Mr D, but
it did need to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could decide for himself
whether to take it or not.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ds circumstances at the time, I dont think better information
would have changed his decision to take the policy. I say this because it doesnt look like
Mr D was affected by any of the main exclusions, such as having a pre-existing medical
condition or unusual employment circumstances. And I think the PPI could have been useful
for him if something went wrong.
Mr D couldnt remember how much sick pay he was entitled to from his employer, but he
said he would have received at least statutory sick pay. Mr D also said that he would have
had some savings at the time. We asked Mr D to confirm how much he had in savings on at
least three separate occasions. Mr D told us he couldnt remember and according to MBNAs
call notes  Mr D said the same when they contacted him. More recently, Mr D says he
would have had around £15,000, but he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support
this new information.
Ive thought about what Mr Ds said, but the amount of savings hes mentioned is
considerable in comparison with the salary he says he was earning at the time. And its not
clear how Mr D has remembered this amount after having told us he couldnt remember
previously. So, I would need to see evidence of his savings in order to consider this further.
Taking into account the statutory sick pay and some savings, I still think the benefits of the
policy could have been useful and I dont think better information about the cost of the policy
would have changed Mr Ds decision to take it. The policy would have paid out on top of
anything Mr D received from his employer and potentially for a lot longer. Mr D could have
claimed again subject to a requalification period. And the PPI would have enabled Mr D to
use any savings he had for any other financial commitments at what could be a difficult time
for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr D responded and raised a number of concerns, in particular that:
His job meant he was aware of policies like PPI and that he thinks they are 
worthless.
I should not rely on the script MBNA has provided as it may not have been used.
Personal circumstances would have prevented him from phoning MBNA.The PPI did not show on his credit card statements  he would have cancelled it 
immediately if it had. 
I appreciate Mr D feels strongly that PPI policies are not worth the cost, but as I explained in 
my provisional decision, PPI policies can be useful protection in the event of someone being 
unable to work through sickness or involuntary redundancy. And there wasnt anything about 
Mr Ds circumstances that made me think the policy wouldnt have been useful to him should 
the worst have happened.
While Mr D says he wouldnt have taken the policy, the evidence available suggests its 
more likely than not that he did. A number of years have passed since the policy was sold 
and so its not surprising theres limited information available  Mr D himself has not been 
able to provide any documentation to support what hes said. But MBNA has provided 
screenshots to evidence the sale took place, as well as the script it says would have been 
used.
Weve seen a number of examples of MBNA phones sales using a script and I think its more 
likely than not the representative would have broadly followed it. So I think MBNA would 
have made Mr D aware the policy was optional and got his consent before applying PPI to 
his account. 
Ive considered Mr Ds comments that the PPI didnt show on his statements, but Ive seen a 
number of MBNA credit card statements over the years and PPI would usually appear 
clearly as a separate charge. As Mr D hasnt been able to provide a copy of any statements 
to show something different happened in his case  I still think Mr D would likely have 
noticed the additional cost of the premiums being charged if it was unexpected.
Id like to reassure Mr D Ive thought about everything hes said, and Ive considered the 
case impartially. But as Ive not received any new evidence or information that persuades 
me the policy was mis-sold, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. 
I dont think Mr Ds PPI was mis-sold, which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited doesnt
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman