DRN-4317736
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr T contacted Aviva to send an engineer when he drilled through an electric cable in his 
home. The engineer told Mr T he could repair the wire by fixing a box to the wall to join the 
wires together. The engineer said he couldnt replace the wire as the policy didnt cover this. 
Mr T spoke to Aviva to arrange for another engineer to visit. Aviva sent the same engineer, 
who again told Mr T that he could only carry out a repair.
When Mr T complained to Aviva, it didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva said it had twice 
offered to repair the wire, but this had been refused. It would only offer a replacement if it 
was the only way to resolve the issue.
So, Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Aviva had acted fairly by only offering a repair to fix the issue.
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Aviva sent an engineer to deal with the wiring problem. Mr T has said he was only offered a 
repair, but this wasnt suitable as he couldnt then put the kitchen cupboard in place. He said 
Aviva should have replaced the wire. Aviva has said the policy didnt cover a replacement 
and that replacing the wire would be an upgrade.
The electrics part of the policy said: You are covered for an electrical emergency and 
breakdown of the domestic electrical wiring, including permanent damage caused by a 
power cut. This included Failure of the electrical wiring as a result of a DIY accident. Aviva 
seems to be relying on this wording to explain why it would only carry out a repair, rather 
than a replacement, under the policy. Looking at this wording, it doesnt describe what action 
would be taken by an engineer under the policy. I note this is different to the plumbing and 
drainage part of the policy, which explicitly described this and said: 
The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing leaking pipes; 
clearing blocked drains; repairing taps; restoring toilet facilities, repairing leaking overflows; 
investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can be accessed
The electrical section of the policy didnt include any comparable wording. This section 
explained under What isnt Covered? that it didnt include h) repairing or replacing wiring 
encased in rubber or lead. I think this suggests that wiring that wasnt encased in rubber or 
lead could be repaired or replaced, not just repaired. I also note that this section said it didnt 
cover routine maintenance, including updating a propertys wiring except where necessary 
as part of a repair. So, I think this also suggested there were times when wiring would be 
replaced or updated. But, I think its unusual and unclear to have to rely on what isnt 
covered to try and understand what is covered under a policy.
The policy also didnt say whether the work that would be carried out under the policy would 
be temporary or permanent. Aviva has said the policy was only designed to deal with the 
immediate emergency. However, the policy said it provided insurance cover in relation to 
emergencies and other domestic problems and covered an electrical emergency and 
breakdown of the domestic electrical wiring. So, it wasnt just limited to emergencies.
I havent seen anything that said the wire was encased in rubber or lead, so I think this 
meant there was an option to repair or replace the wire, not just repair it. Although the policy 
didnt say how it would deal with a claim covered by the policy, Ive thought about what, in 
my view, would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and bearing in mind what 
policies of this type normally offer. An insurer would normally pay for a repair, if it could be 
carried out like for like. Where it cant do this, an insurer would normally pay for a 
replacement. Thats usually a choice for the insurer, providing its choice treats the customer 
fairly and reasonably.
The engineer offered a repair that involved joining the damaged wiring back together using a 
junction box that would be mounted on the wall. Mr T said he drilled a hole through the 
electrical cable as part of fitting the kitchen cupboard. He has said he wouldnt be able to put 
the kitchen cupboard in place if there was a junction box attached to the wall. Ive no reason 
to doubt this. So, this meant that the repair identified by the engineer would either mean Mr 
T couldnt fit the cupboard or that he would have to get someone else out to remove the 
junction box and carry out a different repair to then put the cupboard in place. I dont 
consider this to be a reasonable repair. Mr T shouldnt have to potentially change the design 
of his kitchen to allow a repair to take place and the policy didnt say that a temporary repair 
would be carried out to allow for the policyholder to arrange for someone else to then carry 
out a more suitable repair.
Im aware Aviva has also said fitting a new cable would be an upgrade. I havent seen any 
evidence from Aviva to show why this would be an upgrade. The policy did seem to allow for 
the possibility of replacing electrical wires. This included where it was necessary as part of a 
repair. As I dont think the repair the engineer suggested was appropriate and I havent seen 
any other options suggested other than replacing the wire, I currently think its fair to say 
replacing or updating the wire was necessary.
In the absence of clear policy wording, Im not persuaded that Aviva acted in line with the 
terms and conditions. Aviva was responsible for writing the policy and for ensuring the 
wording was clear. In the circumstances, I currently think it didnt deal with the claim fairly 
and that it needs to replace the wire.
Im aware Mr T got a quote from an electrician to carry out work in his home, including to 
deal with the damaged wire. Aviva only needs to deal with replacing the electrical wire and 
any other work its engineer would have done as part of doing so. If Mr T has already had the 
electrical work done, Aviva only need to cover the costs related to the wire. It isnt 
responsible for any work that wasnt a direct result of Mr T drilling through the wire.
Mr T has also said the engineer seemed to expect him to carry out the repair himself. I 
listened to a phone call between Aviva and Mr Ts partner, who said Mr T had asked about 
how a new wire would be fitted, but that this was to understand what still needed to be done 
rather than to do the work himself. The engineers notes suggested he thought Mr T was 
going to do the work. I dont know why there was a difference in view on this. I dont doubt 
that this caused Mr T concern. But I note this wasnt the reason the engineer didnt do the 
repair. From what Ive seen, it was because Mr T said he didnt want the junction box fitted.Ive also thought about compensation. I think Mr T has been inconvenienced and caused 
concern by the way his claim was handled, Avivas interpretation of the unclear policy 
wording, the advice from the engineer, including the discussion of doing the work himself, 
and being left with an electrical fault that affected his ability to cook. As a result, I currently 
intend to say that Aviva should pay Mr T £150 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 September 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr T said he had since completed the work using another electrician. He said it had been a 
considerable amount of time to go without an oven, so had thought it best to fix the problem. 
He provided a copy of the invoice for the work.
Aviva replied and, in summary:
confirmed that the terms and conditions didnt say how a repair would be completed. The 
terms and conditions just said a breakdown was covered.
said the exclusion was clear that it would only update, which it said meant replace, a 
wire if it was necessary to do so as part of a repair. So, was of the view that it had acted 
correctly based on the terms and conditions.
said it was more subjective whether it was necessary to replace the wiring. The 
engineer and Avivas agents thought it was not. The repair could be done without 
replacing the wire.
it said it had acted incorrectly by saying it was an upgrade to replace the wire, as this 
was poor and inaccurate language. It confirmed it wasnt an upgrade to replace a wire as 
part of a repair.
it also said it should have recognised that the cupboard needed to be fitted and the 
personal situation Mr T was in and replaced a large section of wire to allow the customer 
to fit the cupboard. It said this was where the subjectivity of the clause should have made 
Aviva do the wire.
it thought there was a slight issue with Mr Ts assertion that he couldnt fit the cupboard 
in the same place. Mr T had drilled a hole and hit a wire. Aviva therefore presumed the 
wire needed to be moved, which wouldnt have been done under the policy, or the 
cupboard needed to be fitted elsewhere, as drilling another hole after the repair might 
have hit the repaired wire again. Aviva thought this might be an issue that both Aviva and 
Mr T hadnt made me aware of. It questioned whether Mr T had asked the engineer to 
move the wire rather than repair it. That would then be an unnecessary repair.
Aviva thought it did the right thing based on the strictest view of the terms and 
conditions, but that it should have recognised the circumstances and if Mr T could then fit 
the cupboard in the same place. It said it should have done the replacement deeming it a 
necessary change. But if, in reality, the wire was being moved, it could have said it 
wasnt a repair.
it said there wasnt a rule that it would channel a wire. It also said there wasnt a rule that 
it wouldnt. It left engineers to decide the best solution.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that, Ive considered the responses from both parties.
I remain of the view that the terms and conditions were unclear. I dont think they were clear 
to the people who dealt with the claim for Aviva or to Mr T. In addition, although there might 
have been some circumstances where it wasnt a simple repair or replacement of the 
existing wire, the solution suggested by the engineer wasnt reasonable. Aviva also seems to 
accept that it could have looked at the situation differently and replaced the wire, subject to it 
confirming whether the wire was, in reality, being moved. I think Avivas response also 
shows the types of issues that it could have assessed to ensure it made a fair decision about 
the claim. However, it didnt do this at the time.
Mr T has now had electrical work carried out and I think its understandable that he did so. 
Even if the work Mr T later paid for involved moving the wire, that doesnt change my view 
that Aviva didnt deal with the claim reasonably at the time. 
So, thinking about everything that happened, I remain of the view that Aviva needs to pay 
the cost for replacing the electrical wire. Mr T has already had the electrical work done and 
has provided a copy of the invoice, which included other electrical work. Aviva only needs to 
cover the costs related to replacing the wire. It isnt responsible for paying for any electrical 
work Mr T paid for that wasnt a direct result of him drilling through the wire. For avoidance of 
doubt, in effect, Aviva needs to pay for all the work its engineer would have done to replace 
the wire, but at the cost to Mr T based on his invoice for the electrical work. I also think £150 
compensation is still reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr T the cost of replacing the wire at the cost to him based on his invoice 
for the electrical work and £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr T the cost of replacing the wire at the cost to him based on his invoice.
pay Mr T £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman