DRN-4445767
The complaint
Miss H complains about difficulties registering Revolut Ltds app on a new mobile phone. 
What happened
Miss H has a multi-currency account with Revolut. In January 2023 Miss H changed her 
mobile phone and attempted to register the Revolut app and access her account. But Miss H 
has explained that she was unable to complete the verification process and access her 
account from the new device.  Miss H has added that it wasnt possible to discuss her 
account with Revolut either.
Miss H complained to Revolut and it issued a final response. Revolut apologised for 
difficulties Miss H experienced when trying to access her account. Revoluts final response 
gave guidance on the steps required to obtain Miss Hs PIN, contact its support teams via 
the in app anonymous chat facility and regain access to the account. Revolut refunded three 
monthly account fees to apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss H referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, Miss H explained she wanted to close the account and for the funds to be 
transferred to another bank. Miss H gave her partners account details for funds held in 
currencies other than GBP. And Miss H asked Revolut to transfer the GBP funds to an 
account she holds with another bank. 
Revolut explained it could only transfer Miss Hs funds to accounts in her own name. Revolut 
added it was willing to convert the funds Miss H holds in foreign currencies to GBP and 
transfer them to Miss H. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. They thought Revolut had provided 
reasonably guidance on how to access Miss Hs account via the app and complete the 
registration process. The investigator said Revolut had reasonably offered to convert the 
funds held in foreign currencies to GBP and transfer them to Miss H. The investigator also 
thought Revoluts explanation that it had to transfer the funds in Miss Hs account to another 
account in her name was reasonable. Ultimately, the investigator said Miss H had the option 
of completing the registration process for Revoluts app and could then arrange the transfers 
and account closure in line with her wishes. 
Miss H asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Miss H ran into difficulties when trying to register Revoluts app on her new 
phone earlier this year. In response to the investigator, Miss H said that Revoluts app wasnt 
working which meant she wasnt able to register. But I have to take both parties points into 
account when reaching my decision. And Revolut has confirmed there arent known issues 
with the apps registration process. In addition, Revoluts explained Miss Hs app registration 
failed in part due to the request for selfies not being fulfilled. 
Revolut says part of its verification process requires customers to submit a selfie to its 
systems. But Revoluts records show Miss H submitted a picture of a mug instead of a selfie. 
In response to the investigator, Miss H explained she didnt feel comfortable submitting 
selfies and that Revoluts system hadnt accepted genuine pictures she sent. But the 
evidence that has been submitted by both parties only shows pictures of a mug were 
submitted. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded it was systems issues that caused the 
registration process to fail. I think its more likely than not that the selfie issue caused the 
registration process to fail. Im not persuaded that was a result of an error by Revolut. 
When Revolut issued its final response it provided reasonably detailed guidance concerning 
how to register the app and regain access to Miss Hs account. As our investigator has said, 
Miss H has the option of completing the app registration process in full to regain access to 
her account and transfer the remaining funds as required. Im satisfied Revolut has provided 
clear guidance on how to proceed and havent been persuaded its acted unfairly. 
Miss H has explained she wants to close the account. Revolut offered Miss H two options. 
One was for the funds to be transferred in the currencies theyre held in to suitable bank 
accounts in Miss Hs name with another bank. The second was for Revolut to convert the 
remaining balances held in foreign currencies to GBP and transferred to an account in Miss 
Hs name with another bank. Im satisfied those were reasonable alternatives following the 
difficulties Miss H experienced when trying to register Revoluts app on her new phone. I 
leave it to Miss H to decide how she wants to proceed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but as Im satisfied Revolut has provided clear guidance 
concerning how to transfer its app to her new phone and has provided reasonable 
alternatives should she wish to transfer the funds held in her account to another bank 
account in her name, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman