DRN-4267165
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the charges Hyundai Capital UK Limited (HCUK) applied when she 
returned a car after the end of her hire agreement.
Mrs G is represented in her complaint. For ease of reading, any reference to Mrs G refers 
to the testimony of both Mrs G and her representative.
What happened
Mrs G entered into a three-year hire agreement in March 2019. HCUK invoiced her for 
damage to the car when she returned it, but Mrs G says the charges are unfair, and the fact 
she didnt utilise all of the mileage allowance  she drove fewer miles than she was 
permitted  should be taken into account.
Mrs G also complained that when she first acquired the car, there was a delay in its delivery 
of between six and eight weeks. And she says she was inconvenienced when she couldnt 
use the car for a couple of days because a spare part needed ordering and fitting.
HCUK rejected Mrs Gs complaint about the end of contract charges. It said under the terms 
of her agreement, Mrs G needed to return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear 
and tear. And it explained that the car would be inspected and assessed against the BVRLA 
Wear and Tear guidelines. 
HCUK said a third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
and identified issues in a number of areas, the following of which were chargeable:
1. Front bumper  scratched £95.00
2. Front bumper spoiler  scuffed £100.00
3. Rear bumper  scratched £150.00
4. Quarter panel L  scratched £100.00
5. C post L  scratched £100.00
6. Rear door L  scratched £100.00
7. Rear door right  dent £225.00
8. Rear door moulding RR  scuffed £50.00
9. Rear door trim panel L  cut £60.00
10. Carpet  holed £557.03
11. Front door mirror L  water ingress £80.41
12. Rear alloy wheel L  gouged £65.00
13. Front alloy wheel L  gouged £65.00
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that this Service would only be looking at Mrs Gs complaint about HCUK and 
whether the charges it applied were fair.
She said she wouldnt be looking at Mrs Gs complaint about the delay in the delivery of the 
car because this was down to the manufacturer, so Mrs G would need to raise a complaint 
with it or the dealership.
Our investigator explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out 
in the British Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to 
decide whether the charges applied by HCUK were fair and reasonable. She said shed 
reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that it was sufficient to show 
that the damages identified exceed BVRLA fair wear and tear guidance, and that the 
charges had been applied fairly  it simply wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask HCUK to do 
anything else.
She also considered whether HCUK had acted fairly when Mrs G was without use of the car 
for two days whilst a spare part was ordered and fitted. She explained that shed seen 
nothing in the hire agreement that indicated HCUK would provide a courtesy car in these 
circumstances, and she noted that it had extended Mrs Gs car hire at the end of the 
agreement by nearly four weeks at no extra charge. Taking all this into account, she said 
HCUKs actions were fair, and it didnt need to do anything more.
Mrs G disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says the report is flawed; 
HCUK shouldve spotted the issue with the mirror; the marks on the cars bodywork cant be 
her fault; and the issue with the carpet can only be fair wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mrs G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I
consider to be the crux of her complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mrs G should note,
however, that although I may not address each individual point that shes raised, I have 
given careful consideration to all of her submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mrs G and HCUK afresh, Ive
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill
explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Mrs G say, The vehicle will be 
deemed to be in good condition for the purposes of this agreement if it is undamaged and 
has no abnormal wear and tear as defined in the return conditions. Page 13 of the 
agreement  Return Conditions Schedule  provides additional detail on what is acceptable 
and what is unacceptable, covering everything from stains, burns, and tears, to the battery, 
the catalytic converter, and the tyres. So, Im satisfied that Mrs G was responsible for 
returning the car in good condition and ought reasonably to have been aware of this. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have also taken these into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable for HCUK to charge Mrs G. 
HCUK claims there are 13 areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear:
1. Front bumper  scratched £95.00
2. Front bumper spoiler  scuffed £100.003. Rear bumper  scratched £150.00
4. Quarter panel L  scratched £100.00
5. C post L  scratched £100.00
6. Rear door L  scratched £100.00
7. Rear door right  dent £225.00
8. Rear door moulding R  scuffed £50.00
9. Rear door trim panel L  cut £60.00
10. Carpet  holed £557.03
11. Front door mirror L  water ingress £80.41
12. Rear alloy wheel L  gouged £65.00
13. Front alloy wheel L  gouged £65.00
I havent seen any submissions from Mrs G to say that she disputes the damage is present, 
only that she shouldnt have to pay for it. But nonetheless, Ive first considered whether Ive 
seen sufficient evidence of the damage.
Paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim (items 1-8 above)
HCUKs schedule says scratches that penetrate the primer coat arent acceptable. The 
BVRLA guidance says, Surface scuffs or scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or 
bare metal is not showing are acceptable provided, they can be polished out. It goes on to 
say, dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two 
per panel and the paint surface is not broken
Ive looked carefully at all eight photographs provided by HCUK, and Im satisfied that the 
scuffing and scratches and dents on each exceeds the allowed level. Accordingly, Im 
satisfied these eight charges are fair.
Passenger area, seats, headrests and trim (items 9 and 10)
HCUKs schedule says that any cuts arent acceptable. It goes on to say that torn fabric that 
cant be easily sewn is unacceptable. The BVRLA guidance says, The interior upholstery 
and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, dents or staining. 
And in respect of carpets, its quite clear  it says, carpets should not have holes.
HCUK has supplied 2 clear photograph of the rear door trim panel and the carpet, and the 
damage  a cut in the panel, and a hole in the carpet  is clearly visible, so Im satisfied that 
these charges are fair.
I understand the point that Mrs G makes about the cause of the hole in the carpet, but my 
role is to determine whether HCUK has applied the charge in accordance with the industry 
guidelines. The BVRLA standards in respect of car carpets are quite explicit and theres no 
exclusions listed or detailed. So, Im satisfied that the charge HCUK asked Mrs G to pay in 
respect of the carpet was applied fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance.
Door mirrors (item 11)
HCUKs schedule says that any broken part isnt acceptable, and the BVRLA guidance says, 
Missing, cracked or damaged door mirror glass and housing units are not acceptable. 
HCUK has supplied a clear photo of the front left door mirror. Its clear that theres water 
ingress within the housing, something thats, more likely than not, a result of a crack 
elsewhere in the unit. Accordingly, Im satisfied that this charge is fair.
Wheels (items 12 and 13)Although HCUKs schedule is silent on the subject of wheels and alloys, the BVRLA 
guidance says, Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy 
wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel facia or hub of the wheel 
alloy is not acceptable. 
Ive been supplied with a photograph of both the wheels in question, and significant damage 
to the spokes and fascia on wheels is clearly visible. Im therefore satisfied that both these 
charges are fair.
Taking into account all the evidence and testimony from both parties, Im satisfied that 
HCUK can fairly levy these 13 charges.
Finally, Ive considered if theres any other reason it wouldnt be fair for HCUK to ask Mrs G 
to pay these charges. Ive considered carefully what Mrs G said about not utilising her 
permitted mileage allowance in full.
I understand that the car was returned with a lower-than-expected mileage. But Ive seen 
nothing in the agreement terms and conditions that would allow for Mrs G to receive a 
discount for utilising less than the maximum permitted mileage. So, I wouldnt expect HCUK 
to offer Mrs G any rebate for this.
I know Mrs G will be disappointed with the outcome of her complaint, but I hope she 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman