DRN-3346877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc, trading as Alliance & Leicester Commercial 
Bank, failed to give them a better interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs W took out an interest only mortgage with Santander (formerly Alliance 
and Leicester) following advice from a broker. The mortgage was for £165,000 (plus fees) 
with a term of 17 years. The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed at 4.64% until 30 April 
2012. Once this expired, the mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR)  which 
was 4.99% at the time. 
Around 2014, Mr and Mrs W asked Santander for consent to let (CTL). This was provided 
and has been renewed each year  with a fee of £95 each time. 
The mortgage remained on the SVR rate until recently, in January 2020, when Mr and 
Mrs W successfully applied for a fixed interest rate product. 
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint. They said that they contacted Santander every year  
around January when they were filling out their tax returns and asked if they could switch to 
a lower rate but were told none were available. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that whilst there was a record of Mr and Mrs W 
getting in touch each January from 2014  there were no call recordings or notes to show 
that they had asked for a better rate. The notes only reflected that they asked for information 
to complete their tax returns. 
Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to this service. Our investigator thought this service has 
the power to look at the complaint over the time period from 2012 (when the mortgage 
reverted to the SVR) until Mr and Mrs W made the complaint in 2020. Santander consented. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He was 
persuaded by what Mr and Mrs W said about asking for a new rate so recommended that 
the mortgage account be reworked from January 2014 as if Mr and Mrs W had successfully 
applied for the lowest new interest rate product available each time over the period  until 
2020 when the new product was provided. 
Santander disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Should Santander have actively offered Mr and Mrs W new rates? 
Mr and Mrs W have questioned why Santander didnt get in touch with them to let 
them know they could change interest rates. They say that they dont recall receiving 
any correspondence about other available interest rate products. 
Once Mr and Mrs W were on the SVR, from 2012 onwards, there was no general 
obligation for Santander to pro-actively contact them to offer new interest rates. It 
included information about how to apply on their annual statements. 
From 2018, however, while there was still no regulatory obligation to pro-actively 
offer new rates, Santander  in common with many other lenders  undertook to write 
to customers on the SVR who could benefit from new interest rates. While this is a 
voluntary agreement not a regulatory requirement, it was something Santander 
committed to do and in my view now represents good industry practice. 
Santander has provided information to show that it was likely it contacted Mr and Mrs 
W around that time as part of their borrowing was charged interest on the SVR. And 
so, I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly by not doing more to let them know 
that better rates may have been available. 
But Mr and Mrs W have also said that they asked Santander for better rates over the 
course of the last ten years but were told none were available.
Did Mr and Mrs W ask for better rates? 
Mr and Mrs W have said that they called up every couple of years and asked for a 
new rate but were told they could not have one. Unfortunately, whilst Santander has 
records of their calls  it has said it does not have any detailed notes of these or 
recordings until the call in January 2020  following which Mr and Mrs W successfully 
applied for a new rate. 
With the lack of this evidence I cant be certain whether Mr and Mrs W asked for new 
rates  and I dont know what the details of these conversations were. They recall 
being passed to another department at times and, despite our investigator providing 
all possible phone numbers they may have called from, Santander hasnt been able 
to locate call recordings. 
So Ive looked at the evidence that is available to decide what I think is most likely, 
on the balance of probabilities, to have happened. Having done so, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs W asked for better rates. I say this as Ive listened to 
the call from January 2020 and one of the first things that Mr W says is that they call 
every couple of years asking for new rates but were told none were available. He 
says on the later application call that they have tried several times to get the rate 
down but have been paying the SVR for around ten years. 
I consider their testimony and recollections are consistent and plausible - and that the 
actions they took when they were able to apply reflect their intentions.
Whether or not there were actually better rates available to them is a matter Ill come 
onto later, but whilst Ive taken note of what Santander has said in that there are no 
notes to reflect this - with the lack of evidence to the contrary - Im persuaded they 
did, on balance, ask for better interest rates. Ive also kept in mind that notes are just 
that  they are brief details of a conversation. The notes that Santander have 
provided are very brief and include acronyms to describe the contact. Having 
considered these, Im not persuaded that these can be relied upon to show that they 
didnt ask for better rates. 
Mr and Mrs W have also said they looked to other lenders to secure more favourable rates but were unable to and I think its likely that when doing so, they would have 
also asked their own lender. 
Were better rates available?
As I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W did ask for new rates in the past, Ive 
considered whether better rates would have been available to them based on the 
information Santander has provided. 
From 2012, Mr and Mrs W paid an interest rate of around 4.99% on their mortgage. 
Santander has explained that, although Mr and Mrs W have a residential mortgage, 
as they have CTL, they are only eligible for retention product rates  which are the 
same as its buy-to-let (BTL) rates. It also explained that it bands customers based 
on a number of different factors and risks. Most notably - its explained that the 
criteria for rates are based on loan to value and that no fixed rates were available for 
BTL mortgages with a loan to value (LTV) above 75%.
Mr and Mrs W have said that shortly after taking out the mortgage, the LTV on their 
mortgage was 100% due to the financial crisis of 2008/2009. Further, Santander has 
said that the LTV in 2014 was 95%. As a result, they would not have been eligible for 
a better rate at that time. But Im mindful that between this time, and successfully 
applying for a new rate in 2020, Mr and Mrs W may have been eligible for better 
mortgage rates  depending on the LTV. 
I cant see that a valuation has been undertaken on the property until recently and so, 
without knowing what the LTV would have been, I cant be certain of the rates that 
would have been available. 
In order to determine a fair outcome in this case, I consider it reasonable for 
Santander to undertake a desktop valuation retrospectively to work out the LTV on 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage for each year from 2015 to 2019 inclusive. 
Its provided details of the rates available around 2017 and 2018 which is helpful, and 
it appears that there would have been more favourable rates for Mr and Mrs W, 
provided they met the eligibility criteria  in particular in this case, whether their loan 
to value was below 75%. 
Once this information has been received, I will review this to decide what I consider 
to be a fair outcome in this case.
Im also aware that Santander could have offered Mr and Mrs W its follow-on rate 
(FOR). If it is found that they would not have been eligible for better rates due to the 
LTV being greater than 75%, then it remains that Santander should rework the 
account as if the mortgage had been on the FOR, from the date it was introduced 
(which I believe was January 2018).
My provisional view on how to put things right
In order to put things right I asked for Santander to undertake a desktop valuation to 
determine the LTV for the period from January 2015 to 2019 and, dependent upon this  
provide the interest rates that would have been available. I also said that, if it was the case 
that they would not have been eligible for more favourable interest rates due to the LTV, it 
should rework the account as if the FOR applied from January 2018.The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W accepted my provisional decision. 
Santander undertook the desktop valuations requested for each year from 2015 to 2019. 
These showed that the LTV would have been less than the 75% limit and so Mr and Mrs W 
would have been eligible for a more favourable rate on their mortgage from January 2015.  
Santander provided the corresponding rates that would have been available at that time and 
the remaining period until 2020 when Mr and Mrs W fixed their interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully again about what I said in my provisional decision and considered the 
interest rates provided by Santander. 
The LTV in January 2015 would have been 73% and, according to the information provided 
by Santander, the best fixed rate deal available without a fee would have been 4.29% - for 
two years until 2 April 2017. The best available rate with a £999 booking fee was 3.99%.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs W would have been eligible for a rate without a booking fee of 3.49%. 
Or alternatively, a rate of 2.49% - with a booking fee of £1,999 or a rate of 2.99% with a 
booking fee of £999. 
Santander has proposed that the account is reworked to the interest rates available with no 
booking fee that I have set out above. But I consider that the fair resolution here is to allow 
Mr and Mrs W to choose whether to have the booking fee apply - and access the benefit of 
the lower rate - or to have the account reworked with the rate that applied without a fee. 
Mr and Mrs W should have the opportunity to decide which they would prefer.
I consider that the follow-on rate (FOR) should then apply from the end of the 2017 fixed rate 
- which would be May 2019 - until Mr and Mrs W new rate applied in January 2020. This 
period of time is too short for a new fixed rate deal to be put in place (which generally run for 
a minimum of two years  but usually slightly more) So I think it is fair for the FOR to apply 
which puts Mr and Mrs W in the position that they would have been in if they had been 
treated fairly and allows them to access a more favourable rate that the SVR for that period. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I think that this complaint should be 
upheld. If Santander had acted fairly, Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage would have been on an 
interest rate product from January 2015 rather than the SVR. 
To put things right I require Santander to re-work the mortgage account in line with 
whichever following options Mr and Mrs W chose, to apply from January 2015 until 2 April 
2017:
1. Two-year fixed interest rate of 3.99% with an applicable booking fee of £999
2. Two-year fixed interest rate of 4.29%, without a fee And following this, a new deal to apply to the account until May 2019 of one of the three 
following options:
1. Two-year fixed interest rate deal of 2.49% with a fee of £1,999 
2. Two-year fixed interest rate deal of 2.99% with a fee of £999
3. Two-year fixed rate deal of 3.49% with no fee. 
Whilst the above deals are marketed as applicable for two years, its common in the 
industry for these to run slightly longer than this period. I dont consider theres anything 
wrong with this, but I wish to highlight this to avoid any confusion. The initial rate expired in 
April 2017, at which point the second rate can be selected by Mr and Mrs W  which would 
be applicable until May 2019.
If Mr and Mrs W choose to select a rate with a product fee  Santander should offset the first 
monthly overpayments against this.
Mr and Mrs W will need to communicate which of the above two options they wish to select 
to Santander within 21 days of the date of this decision. 
Following this, the mortgage should also be reworked as if the FOR applied from May 2019 
until 2020, when Mr and Mrs W selected their rate.   
Once Santander have re-worked the mortgage balance, it should give Mr and Mrs W the 
choice of either:
Applying the overpayments, including any additional compounded interest, to the 
outstanding mortgage balance to reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receive the overpayment as a cash refund to them now, with the addition of 8% 
simple interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date 
of settlement. 
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and 
Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc, trading as 
Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank, to put things right as Ive set out above. 
I also direct it to write to Mr and Mrs W setting out what it has done and the calculations it 
has made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman