DRN-4494881
The complaint
Mr F complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unreasonably delayed 
making a decision on a claim he made under his Buildmark policy.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of multiple apartments. Mr F is the 
leaseholder of one of the apartments, and the holder of a Buildmark Warranty covering his 
apartment and his share of any common parts. 
Mr Fs claim is for remedial work to the common parts of the building, relating to fire safety 
issues. This means that other leaseholders, in addition to Mr F, will likely have been 
affected. But this complaint has been brought solely by Mr F, and so Im only considering 
what he is entitled to under his individual warranty. 
Our service has already considered a previous complaint from Mr F about NHBCs refusal to 
deal with the claim under section 2 of the warranty, and about unreasonable delays up until 
January 2023.
This complaint is about unreasonable delays in NHBCs assessment of the claim under 
section 4 of the warranty, between 31 January 2023 and 25 August 2023 (when NHBC 
answered Mr Fs complaint). It doesnt cover NHBCs claim decision because, at the point of 
Mr Fs complaint, no claim decision had been made. In its response to Mr F, NHBC accepted 
the claim hadnt progressed as quickly as it ought to have and offered Mr F £200 
compensation. Mr F didnt accept this offer and so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed that 
there had been unreasonable delays in the progression of the claim. But he felt NHBCs 
acknowledgement of this, and its offer of compensation, were sufficient to fairly put things 
right. So, he didnt recommend NHBC do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr F, I agree with 
the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant section of the policy applicable to Mr Fs claim is section 4. This section 
provides cover in circumstances where NHBC carried out the building control function during 
construction, and where there has been a breach of relevant building regulations which 
results in a present or imminent danger to the health and safety of the occupants.
NHBC says the claim has taken time to consider due to the complex nature of the issues 
involved. It says expert opinion has been required, but that suitable experts in this field are 
rare. However, it has accepted that there were some unreasonable delays and so has 
offered £200 compensation.
From January to March 2023, the claim was referred to a fire consultant to review whether 
there had been a breach of regulations  a key component required for cover to engage. 
This doesnt seem an unreasonable action for NHBC to take, or an unreasonable length of 
time for these investigations to have taken in the circumstances.
NHBCs claim team then spent some time reviewing the conclusions of the consultant 
between April and July 2023. Like our investigator, I dont find it surprising that NHBC 
wanted to assess the information internally before arriving at a decision on the claim, but I 
agree that three months is an unreasonable length of time for this to have taken.
Mr F is also unhappy that NHBC has refused to share the fire consultants report with him. 
But NHBC says this is because the outcome of that review was that further expert opinion 
was needed before a claim decision could be made. In its final response to Mr Fs complaint, 
NHBC committed to sharing the relevant information relied on to reach its decision on the 
claim, once a decision is reached. And in the circumstances, I dont think that approach is 
unfair or unreasonable.
NHBC said the reason a further expert opinion was needed was to determine whether there 
was a present or imminent danger to the health or safety of the occupants  which is the 
second key component for cover to engage. And while I accept that it was reasonable for 
NHBC to want to obtain this opinion, I do agree that it should have been obvious that this 
would have been needed much sooner, and so it was unreasonable for NHBC to hold off 
asking for it until the point it did.
I know Mr F feels strongly that our service should conclude that because there has been a 
breach of building regulations, that it follows there is a present and imminent danger. He 
says this is in line with a decision reached by one of my ombudsman colleagues in a 
different complaint. Ive thought carefully about this, but we consider each case on its own 
merits. And in this case, I am not considering or reviewing a claim decision which has been 
made, only the time taken between two points within the claim. So, the circumstances here 
are different to those in my ombudsman colleagues decision. 
Ultimately, its not for our service to take over NHBCs claim handling or make claim 
decisions for it. Wed typically only consider the fairness of a claim decision once it had been 
reached. And considering the particular circumstances here, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of NHBC to obtain the second consultants opinion before reaching a claim 
decision, I just think it took too long to review the initial consultants opinion and to request 
the second  and that Mr F has been unfairly impacted by this unreasonable delay.
Mr F has suggested that he has suffered from prolonged distress and inconvenience for over 
a year, due to NHBCs handling of his claim and complaints. However, as already explained, 
this complaint is only considering the roughly eight-month period between January and 
August 2023. In that time, I consider that NHBC is responsible for around three months 
worth of unreasonable delays. And taking everything Mr F has said about the impact of 
these delays into account, I think NHBCs apologies and offer of compensation are sufficient 
to fairly put things right.Should Mr F remain unhappy with delays after August 2023 and/or NHBCs claim decision 
(once he has it) hell need to raise these issues as a new complaint, and with NHBC in the 
first instance. Should he remain unhappy with NHBCs position at that stage, hell be able to 
refer the new hypothetical complaint to our service, subject to our normal rules and 
timescales.
My final decision
National House-Building Council has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that National House-Building Council should pay Mr F £200  if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman