DRN-1846953
The complaint
Ms B and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy. 
Reference to Lloyds also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In March 2019, Ms B invited relatives to stay at her home that she shares with another 
relative Mrs G. Ms B is the registered full-time carer for Mrs G and her relatives partner 
provided some paid care for Mrs G. Ms B went out one evening with her friends. During the 
evening out she found that money was missing from her purse. 
She returned home and found that her relatives partner had left. She later discovered that 
£330.00 in cash and jewellery were missing from her room which she thought had been 
taken by her relatives partner. She reported the theft to the police and contacted Lloyds to 
make a claim. 
Lloyds told Ms B that the claim would only be covered under the personal belongings section 
of the policy as the contents section cover was excluded, as the guest had been invited into 
their home. Lloyds made a settlement offer of £330.00 for the stolen money and £7,500 for 
the stolen jewellery. Ms B and Mrs G werent happy about this as it represented a lower 
figure than the stolen items were worth and raised a complaint. 
Lloyds found that an error had been made and told Ms B and Mrs G that the whole claim 
would have to be declined due to a policy exclusion for claims due to the deliberate acts of 
visitors invited into the home. 
Ms B and Mrs G were unhappy that Lloyds had declined the claim on this basis as they said 
that this person wasnt employed to clean the house and so shouldnt be classed as 
domestic staff. So, they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said that Lloyds decision to decline the 
claim was fair and reasonable under the exclusion clause that it relied upon. The clause 
excluded deliberate acts for visitors who were invited into the home. He said that Lloyds 
accepted that a mistake was made and tried to rectify this as soon as possible. 
Ms B and Mrs G asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I can understand that this will be a 
disappointment to Ms B and Mrs G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.
Policy
Lloyds declined the claim based on the exclusion clause contained in the policy. I have 
looked at the policy and the clause says: 
Deliberate act
Any loss, damage or legal liability caused by, or allowed to be caused by, a deliberate
act by you, your family, domestic staff, tenants or visitors invited into your home.
From the evidence, I can see that there was an issue as to whether Lloyds had classed the 
suspected thief as domestic staff. This was because Ms B and Mrs G had told them that she 
had, on a weekly basis, provided caring services for Mrs G, which she was paid for.
Lloyds has made it clear that the clause provided for both domestic staff or invited guests 
and having reviewed the clause, I agree. Whilst I sympathise with Ms B and Mrs G for being 
victims of such a horrible crime, I cant say that Lloyds has treated them unreasonably or 
unfairly by declining their claim under the policy. 
Compensation
Lloyds acknowledged that it gave incorrect information to Ms B and Mrs G and offered £75 
compensation. 
I have thought about the misinformation wouldve had on them and the fair compensation for 
this. The evidence shows that Ms B and Mrs G were told early on (about five days) into the 
claim that it would be declined in full. So, although I accept the disappointment this caused I 
think that Lloyds did act quickly in rectifying the error. So, I cant say that the level of 
compensation offered was unreasonable and I recommend they accept it. 
I note that Lloyds had already settled the claim before realising its error. As I am satisfied 
that the exclusion clause applies, I dont think Lloyds has been unreasonable or treated Ms 
B and Mrs G unfairly in it requesting a refund of the settlement paid or in its offer of 
compensation. So, I wont be asking it to do anything else here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons given.
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mrs G 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman