DRN-3375330
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr W is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr W 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
In June 2015, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr W made a £100 advance payment and was then required to make 59 
monthly repayments of £328. The total repayable under the agreement was £19,453.
Mr W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check to assess Mr Ws credit 
worthiness and level of indebtedness and verifying Mr Ws income from his payslips. It says 
based on this information the agreement was affordable and that Mr W made his payments 
on time and settled the agreement in December 2018.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr W.
Moneybarn didnt agree. It asked for sight of the information used in reaching the view which 
was sent to it. It also asked further questions about where the funds had come from in 
December 2018 to settle the agreement. Mr W provided information that he had received an 
unexpected bonus payment from his employer which he had used to settle his high cost 
finance.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Moneybarn verified Mr Ws income but wasnt able to show that it asked Mr W about 
his expenditure. It completed a credit check, (which I didnt see a copy of) but this 
wouldnt have indicated what Mr Ws regular living expenses were. Without knowing 
what Mr Ws regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. 
Therefore, I didnt think it had completed proportionate checks.
I didnt think given the size of the repayments compared to Mr Ws income that 
verification of expenditure was required (unless further questions raised concerns) 
but I did think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out 
more about Mr Ws committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I couldnt be sure 
exactly what Moneybarn would have found out if it had asked. So, while I accepted 
Moneybarn wasnt required to request copies of Mr Ws banks statements, in the 
absence of anything else, I thought it reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in Mr Ws bank statements as to what would most likely have 
been disclosed.
I reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
These showed that Mr W was paying around £600 a month for food and fuel and a 
further £1,000 towards his other committed living expenditure such as household 
costs and insurance. I didnt see a copy of Mr Ws credit file but based on his bank 
statements he had taken out short term loans around the time and was making 
regular payments towards other credit commitments. However, taking all this into 
account against Mr Ws income of £3,010, the repayments of £328 a month 
appeared affordable. Therefore, I didnt find I could say that Moneybarn acted unfairly 
by approving the finance.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision. He asked whether the certain payments were 
taken into account and noted that he was in a debt management plan at the time which was 
visible on his bank statements. He said proper checks would have shown he had defaulted 
accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that Moneybarn carried out reasonable checks 
regarding Mr Ws income but should have gathered more information about his committed 
expenditure. Given the size of the repayments under the agreement compared to Mr Ws 
income I dont think his expenditure needed to be verified but I do think questions to 
establish Mr Ws committed living costs should have been asked.
I note Mr Ws question in regard to my provisional decision about the expenses that were 
taken into account. I confirm I considered the information in his bank statements and the 
committed expenditure these showed. However, taking this into account, the agreement did 
still appear affordable.
I note Mr Ws comments about the debt management plan. I did take the payments to this 
into account and also noted its presence. However, based on the evidence I have seen and 
considering what Moneybarn might reasonably have been aware of had it carried out what I 
think would have been proportionate checks, I do not find I have enough to say it was wrong 
to provide the agreement to Mr W. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman