DRN-2837393
The complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to carry out an annual service 
correctly and didnt address his outstanding issues, following a claim under his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr D contacted BG to carry out an annual service of his warm air unit. During that service, 
he noticed that BG hadnt removed, cleaned, inspected and replaced the burners on the unit, 
and he questioned why this hadnt been done, as he said it had been completed in the past. 
Mr D said that he wasnt given an adequate explanation.
The engineer told Mr D that the flue was at risk, as it required an additional bracket. She 
then switched off the unit saying it was unsafe. Mr D contacted BG as he didnt have 
confidence in what the engineer had told him. BG sent another engineer for a second 
opinion. 
The second engineer attended his home the next day and concluded that although it was 
difficult to attach a support bracket, in his view the unit was safe and so he switched it back 
on. Mr D says he asked the engineer to take a picture of the installation so that he could get 
the opinion of a senior engineer at BG.  Mr D contacted BG but heard nothing. So, he raised 
a complaint. 
In its final response, BG said that the first engineer who attended used her judgement in 
deciding whether the unit was unsafe. But BG had offered a second opinion and the second 
engineers opinion was that it would be impractical to fit an additional bracket, and in his 
judgement, the unit wasnt unsafe. BG recognised that its customer service was lacking due 
to the confusion caused to Mr D and offered and paid £70.00, by way of an apology. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this outcome as he felt that BG hadnt taken care in dealing with his 
complaint and he had lost confidence in them. So, he referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered his complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
concluded that BG had acted fairly. He said that BGs decision not to fit an additional bracket 
didnt affect the safety of the unit. BG carried out an annual service that included checking 
the burners and igniters. But it didnt need to remove, clean and replace the burners as this 
wasnt necessary. He said that the £70.00 offered was fair and there was nothing further he 
could reasonably ask BG to do.  
BG accepted the findings. Mr D did not. Mr D said that his complaint had to do with BG 
changing its accustomed service to one that was less arduous without having told the 
customer beforehand. He felt that BG had been deceitful and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr D, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mr D has made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
I have to assess what steps BG took when dealing with Mr D and whether it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards him. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether BG failed to 
provide a full service of Mr Ds warm air unit. In that BG adopted a new type of service that 
was significantly different to previous services that had been carried out on Mr Ds unit.
Mr D said that BG had changed its accustomed service to one that was less arduous, and he 
felt was less thorough. I asked Mr D if he had any further evidence, such as expert evidence 
that could support his opinion. Mr D said that he had no further evidence to provide. 
I asked BG whether the level of service provided to Mr D was a full or perhaps interim 
service. And the level of experience its engineers had. BG confirmed that the engineers who 
attended were qualified to work on warm air units and were able to carry out annual services 
on those units. It said that when an annual service was allocated to an engineer, if that 
engineer didnt have the necessary skills to work on the unit, the system would not allocate 
the job to that engineer. 
As to the level of service it carried out on the unit. BG confirmed that it was a full annual 
maintenance inspection and not an interim service that was carried out. That if an engineer 
who carried out the service, felt the need to inspect the unit/parts further, he or she could 
dismantle and reassemble those parts, if required. 
I also asked BG whether it carried out the annual service based on the manufacturers 
instructions. It said that its annual services are derived from the Gas Safe regulations and 
are based on its technical operational procedures (TOP). Those TOPs are commercially 
sensitive and cant be shared, but its engineers would follow those procedures to carry out 
an annual service.
I think that BG did carry out a full annual service as it was required to do under the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ds policy. I think that the annual service was Gas Safe compliant and 
as BG has confirmed, if its engineer believed that a part needed to be inspected further, they 
were at liberty to dismantle and reassemble that part. So, I think that had it been necessary 
for the engineers on this occasion to have done so, they wouldve. 
I have next considered whether BG had breached any gas safety regulations, as Mr D said 
that BG had been misleading. In that one engineer said that the flue required an additional 
support, whilst another engineer deemed the unit stable without it.
I asked BG to address these points raised by Mr D. Its Customer Delivery Manager 
confirmed that although he couldnt recall every specific change to gas safe regulations over 
the past 17 years, when Mr Ds unit was installed and later inspected by Gas Safe, there 
were no issues with the installation. And during this site visit no gas safety defects attributed 
to BG were identified either. So, I think as far back as the installation, the unit was safe. BG confirmed that the reason why it wasnt possible to install the additional support was 
because of the units restricted position. On the second visit it was that engineers 
assessment that the unit was safe irrespective of the lack of additional support. And I dont 
think BG was unreasonable to rely upon its experts assessment, that decided that the unit 
was safe.
BG has admitted that its customer service fell below its usual standard because of the 
confusion it caused Mr D. For this, it offered and paid £70 as a goodwill gesture. I have 
considered whether this is fair, and I think it is. It not only acknowledges the poor customer 
service, but it is in line with what I would have suggested, had it not already been offered.
Mr D said that he had lost confidence in BG as he felt that it was deceitful. However, I note 
that Mr D commented that he was happy with the second engineer who attended, as that 
engineer was informative and helpful. Also, I understand that Mr D has recently renewed his 
policy with BG. So, Im pleased that Mr Ds confidence in BG has been restored sufficiently 
for him to have chosen to renew with BG. 
Overall, I dont think there is enough evidence to support Mr Ds complaint that BG failed to 
carry out the annual service correctly. And I think that the £70 paid for the poor customer 
service was fair in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking BG to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid £70 for the trouble 
and upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman