DRN-1650467
 
The complaint
Mr Ds unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limiteds (AGIL) dealt with two claims 
he made on a gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Briefly, Mr D claimed on the policy for two items; a laptop and a mobile phone. 
Taking the laptop claim first, AGIL agreed to replace the screen only for it to fail around six 
months later. AGIL said gadgets it repaired came with a 90-day warranty but defects arising 
after that time wouldnt be covered. AGIL would only look at the laptop again as a new claim, 
with a further excess payable.
In terms of the mobile phone, AGIL agreed to replace it but Mr D then discovered a problem 
with the replacements GPS. Mr D eventually sent the phone to AGIL for it to test but it was 
returned to him after AGIL said it couldnt find any fault with it.  
Mr D was unhappy with AGILs response to both claims. He said consumer rights legislation 
meant its laptop repairs should have been guaranteed for longer than 90 days. He also said 
hed had his phone checked and it was apparent that AGIL hadnt adequately tested it before 
returning it to him. Mr D wanted AGIL to repair his laptop or pay for its repair and resolve his 
phone issues, plus pay him compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved between the parties, Mr D referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld but only in part. 
They felt that although AGILs position with regard to the laptop was fair, it should re-
examine his mobile phone and pay Mr D £75 as compensation for its handling of the claim.
The complaint remained unresolved, so the case was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why, dealing with the 
main issues as I see them.
laptop
Insurance policies arent intended to cover each and every event that might befall the 
insured. The starting point for determining the scope of the covers the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Ive carefully reviewed the policy terms in this case. And Im satisfied AGILs acted in 
accordance with them with regard to Mr Ds claim for his laptop. AGIL explained repair work carried with it a 90-day warranty and I can see that was made clear to Mr D when his laptop 
was returned to him.
Given Mr D didnt experience further problems with the laptop screen until around six months 
after the repair, Im satisfied AGIL was entitled to rely on the limited warranty.
Mr D says AGILs breached the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the Act). The Act sets out a raft 
of protection for consumers, some consolidated from existing legislation and some new. That 
said, I dont see anything in the Act to suggest AGILs acted unfairly. In the circumstances, 
and given the length of time that passed since further problems arose, I dont believe its 
likely there was a defect with the laptop when it was returned to Mr D.   
So, I dont believe AGIL need do anything further regarding Mr Ds laptop. Its open for Mr D 
to make a new claim for the laptop, if the policys still running, and that will be subject to its 
terms and conditions.
mobile phone   
Its not in dispute that the replacement phone AGIL issued to Mr D was covered by a 12-
month warranty, as opposed to the 90-day warranty covering repaired devices mentioned 
above. Nor is it in dispute that Mr D raised issues with his replacement phone within that 12-
month warranty period.
What is in disputes whether theres an issue with the phone itself  which AGIL would look 
to cover  or whether the problem concerns software which it says isnt covered. 
The parties have provided contradicting information concerning whether the phone was 
adequately examined by AGIL. And, more recently, Mr Ds provided a report from one of the 
manufacturers authorised stores stating:
 location only working off WiFi and cellular. GPS not functioning. Resulting wandering and 
very inaccurate location information.

Proposed Resolution: Device would need to be replaced to fix issues.
Given the evidence provided, Im inclined to place emphasis on the report Mr Ds produced 
as it essentially comes from the manufacturer. This suggests to me that, as things stand, 
theres a problem with the device itself which AGIL should look to put right.
I realise theres evidence to the contrary from AGIL, which is why Im directing AGIL to re-
examine Mr Ds phone in the light of the above comments rather than, say, to replace the 
phone at this stage. If AGIL doesnt then agree to repair or replace the phone following its 
review, it should set out why and provide a detailed report on the specific issues Mr Ds 
raised.
In addition, I think AGIL could have handled the claim better than it did and that this 
negatively affected Mr D. As compensation for that, I think AGIL should pay Mr D £75.
summary
I realise neither partys likely to be fully satisfied with the outcome Ive reached. As 
unfortunate as that is, I nevertheless believe it represents a reasonable way forward in 
relation to, whats become, a long-running dispute. Putting things right
Given my findings, I require AGIL to:
Arrange, as soon as possible, for Mr Ds mobile phone to be replaced or alternatively 
re-examined at no extra cost to him and in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions. Mr D should then be provided with a full and detailed report covering the 
issues hes raised if AGILs unwilling to help him any further; and
Irrespective of the above, pay Mr D £75 as compensation for the upset and 
frustration hes been caused by the handling of his mobile phone claim. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to put things right for Mr D as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman