DRN-4271213
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a personal loan Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc provided to him under 
its (Post Office) brand. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been 
granted.
Background
Post Office provided Mr C with a loan for £10,000.00 in September 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 8.9% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £205.43. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Post Office had told us. And he thought 
that Post Office hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Post Office needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Post Office needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to have a reasonable 
understanding of whether Mr C could afford to make his monthly repayments before 
providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Post Office says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out a credit check to assess Mr Cs existing indebtedness. In 
its view, all of this information showed Mr C could afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he should never have been provided with 
this loan because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Post Office have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Post Office not only asked Mr C for details about his 
income, it also carried out a credit check to assess Mr Cs indebtedness. 
Post Offices credit searches also did show that Mr C had some existing debts. But its fair to 
say that these werent excessive (one of the loans Mr C has referred to had been repaid 
before this one was provided) and that they were being well managed. Furthermore, while 
there is some dispute over the amount Post Office used for Mr Cs take home pay, this in 
itself doesnt mean that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
In any event, as part of its checks I would have expected Post Office to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Mr Cs regular living expenses as well as his income and 
existing credit commitments. The information Mr C has provided does appear to show that 
when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted 
from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments for this loan. This is the case even when Mr Cs estimation of the amount that 
should have been used as his take home pay is used. 
I accept that the real reason for Mr Cs inability to make his payments to this agreement 
wasnt due to his existing credit commitments or his living expenses. And that this is readily 
apparent when Mr Cs bank statements are considered. But what I need to think about here 
is what Post Office needed to have done in order for its checks to have been proportionate  
in other words, what were Mr Cs actual regular living expenses (bearing in his credit 
commitments were already validated by the credit search)?  given this was a first loan Mr C 
was taking out with Post Office. 
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for Post Office to have found 
out more about Mr Cs actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payments etc  I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into 
obtaining the bank statements Mr C has now provided us with. So I dont think that Post 
Office could reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and extent of Mr Cs 
additional spending. 
I appreciate that Mr C has also referred to the fact that he was overdrawn at the time. I 
accept that Mr C was regularly overdrawn in the lead up to this application. But I dont think 
that this meant that Post Office shouldnt have lent to him. Indeed, Mr C could have cleared 
his overdraft with some of the funds from this loan  especially as this loan will have had a 
lower interest rate. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr C experienced difficulty making the payments. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Post Office could possibly be expected to 
have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, bearing in mind that 
reasonable and proportionate checks are unlikely to have shown that this was the case.
So overall I dont think that Post Office treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman