DRN-3973687
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont give him a replacement interest-only 
mortgage now the term of his existing mortgage has expired.  
What happened
Mr T has a mortgage with HSBC on an interest-only basis. During the mortgage term, the 
borrowing was on a tracker rate. The term was for ten years from 2011 and the term ended 
in November 2021. When the term of mortgage began Mr T asked for a ten-year term on the 
basis that his savings and investments during the term of the loan would allow him to repay 
it. His stated intention was to pay down the debt gradually. Towards the end of the term, 
HSBC contacted Mr T about his repayment strategy, and he said that he would possibly use 
his savings or remortgage. At the beginning of 2021, Mr T began an application for a new 
mortgage with HSBC. At that time his property was worth in the region of £2,000,000.00 and 
the application mortgage was for a replacement mortgage of £533.272.00. No action was 
taken on the application.
In October 2021 Mr T contacted the bank to see if he could extend his mortgage. He 
explained that as the interest rate was so low he would make more money by retaining his 
investments and re-financing the mortgage rather than paying it off. Mr T paid a booking fee 
of £1,499 and applied for a new interest only mortgage with a term of 12 years and 5 months 
to coincide with is 75th birthday. HSBC considered the application, but it was rejected in 
November 2021. HSBCs policy was to take income from Mr Ts tax returns, but the tax 
returns it considered suggested that Mr Ts income was insufficient to support the 
repayments on the borrowing. Mr T indicated that he was unhappy with the decision and 
would look elsewhere for a loan. In March 2022 Mr T appealed the refusal and HSBC began 
a new application. This application was also declined in July 2022, but a counteroffer issued 
for £329,850. Mr T didnt proceed with it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as HSBC was not 
bound to extend the mortgage term where Mr T was able to repay the borrowing and had 
considered the new application for a new mortgage fairly. Mr T disagrees saying in summary 
that:
HSBC mis-advised him leading him in October 2021 to request 12 years and that the 
application would be treated under the lending criteria in place when the original 
mortgage was granted
HSBC misled him as to the reasons for their refusal and wasnt given a deadline to 
respond to the counteroffer
HSBCs delay and unfairness in handling the application was against a background 
of rising interest rates and that if he refinances now, he will be operating against a 
background of much increased interest rates than when he originally applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T makes a number of complaints. The background is that Mr T has an interest-only 
mortgage the term of which expired some time ago. If I look at the original notes on file, it 
appears that Mr T intended to pay the balance off over time out of savings. Its accepted that 
Mr T has the capital to pay it off but hasnt done so and would rather take out a further 
mortgage with HSBC. Mr T appears to have started an application at the beginning of 2021. 
There is a letter from HSBC to him of 17 March 2021 telling him he can check the progress 
of the application through the online mortgage system. But nothing became of it. I dont know 
why that was. This was in the first instance a failure by HSBC. But I expect if this error had 
been significant to Mr T at that time he would have checked the progress of the application, 
noticed that there was none and followed it up but didnt do so. Whilst on the face of it, this 
was a failure by HSBC in providing a service to Mr T as its not something he followed up on 
until 7 months later I believe I can reasonably conclude that any failure to HSBC in its 
service to him at that time was of no great significance to him. 
In late 2021 Mr T submitted a further application. Mr T says that he was misled by the HSBC 
adviser in October 2021. Firstly, that she recommended that he apply, for a term of 12 years 
and that the adviser told him that this would be acceptable. But as I understand it this term 
was to suit Mr T. Mr T is an experienced businessman and I would expect would know what 
loan term would suit him or not. At this stage it appears that the adviser was looking at what 
term that HSBC would lend to and if the term came within the banks lending criteria. There 
was nothing wrong with the term. HSBCs problem was affordability. 
The other issue that concerned Mr T at that time is that the HSBC adviser referred to the 
transitional arrangements which can affect some applications for customers who took out 
interest-only mortgages which are coming to the end of term, have not the means to pay the 
capital off but want to stay in the property. Mr T has, I understand, in the region of 
£5,000,000.00 in investments and a mortgage about a tenth of that. He can pay off his 
mortgage and live in the property. So, although the transitional arrangements may have 
been mentioned to Mr T and considered by HSBC, I dont find that they have made an error 
by not applying them to someone in Mr Ts position.  
So, Mr Ts application was then considered under HSBCs normal affordability rules and that 
seems to me to have been the proper way to proceed. The application was firstly rejected 
and that was appealed.  HSBC on a reconsideration said that it wouldnt lend the full amount 
that Mr T wanted but that if he wanted a lower amount it would consider that. It seems that 
there the application stalled. I have to consider if HSBC acted fairly within its lending criteria. 
Mr Ts source of income is from investing and trading in financial instruments internationally. 
An application was submitted at the end of October 2021, and I see that an underwriter 
considered it and raised queries related to the application in early November and the notes 
record that the application was rejected on affordability grounds. From my analysis of the 
notes, it seems that the underwriter applied HSBCs lending criteria to the evidence of Mr Ts 
income that he produced at that time. This resulted in a rejection but from the documentation 
Ive seen, the application was fairly considered although it led to a rejection I see that Mr T 
was advised of this on 29 November 2021 and Mr T said that he was looking for finance 
elsewhere.  
Mr T then appealed it but not until the end of March 2022. I note that in recent 
correspondence Mr T refers to the application being lost in November 2021, but the file indicates that after the refusal Mr T decided to look elsewhere and in fact in his re-
submission in March makes no reference to a lost application. So, I cant fairly conclude that 
it was lost or misplaced as Mr T suggests. It appears that in the meantime Mr T had 
contacted a mortgage adviser and produced further evidence in support of his application. In 
light of this NatWest reconsidered the application and said that on affordability the most it 
could lend was £329,850 and not the full amount that Mr T wanted. HSBC didnt issue a 
formal offer for that amount pending Mr Ts decision as to whether such amount was 
acceptable. The offer went to Mr T on 12 July 2022. I see that Mr T was concerned about 
how his investment income was treated and believed that an unfair hair-cut was being 
applied to part of that income as it was assumed to be in a non-sterling currency but the 
underwriter said that the hair-cut was being applied because HSBCs policy is to take the 
investment income from the country/currency in which it was declared as income  in this 
case the USA - rather than the currency the investment is held in. 
I see that following this that there was an amount of email traffic between Mr T, his mortgage 
manager, and the underwriter but the underwriters position was that under HSBCs lending 
criteria and from the information at his disposal that HSBC could not lend the full amount that 
Mr T wanted. Following the decision in early July, I see that Mr T made various 
representations through the mortgage manager to the underwriter looking for HSBC to 
increase its offer. I note that the underwriter considered these but was unable to increase the 
offer. On 1 August, Mr T was told that the counteroffer was the final stance of the 
underwriter. At that stage Mr T asked for the counteroffer in writing. HSBC responded to say 
that it didnt issue counteroffers in writing.
I can see that Mr Ts application, given the source of his income, wasnt straightforward. 
Theres no doubt that consideration of this application took longer than a usual application, 
but this was partly though the complexity of the application for a regulated mortgage product 
and also partly through the further consideration of Mr Ts submissions.  But it appears to 
have been considered thoroughly by an underwriter who responded to representations made 
by Mr T and on his behalf over an extended period and to have come to a decision on 
affordability within HSBCs lending criteria for a regulated mortgage. My role is not to second 
guess HSBCs lending decision but to see if it the application was fairly considered and that 
appears to have been done. Mr T also criticises HSBC for not sending out its counteroffer in 
writing. But this would only be relevant if the counteroffer was acceptable to Mr T in which 
case a formal mortgage offer would have issued.  There is no indication that Mr T wanted to 
borrow the smaller amount so I can understand why no written offer issued. 
Mr T also says that he was given no end date as to when he could accept the counteroffer 
but at that stage there was no formal offer with a time limit. HSBC wasnt committing itself to 
keep the counter-offer open for a specific time and I see nothing wrong with that given the 
fast-changing economic environment. In summary, for the reasons stated above, except for 
the initial delay in March 2021, I cant fault HSBC for the manner in which it dealt with Mr Ts 
application, and I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
I understand that HSBC still holds Mr Ts booking fee awaiting his decision as to whether he 
wishes to proceed with an application. I will leave Mr T to decide on that or if he wishes the 
fee returned. 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman