DRN-3052255
The complaint
Mr M complains Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) didnt assist him on his loan account. Hes 
unhappy Klarna wont take the debt back from the debt collection agency (DCA) and accept 
instalment payments direct, particularly when itd agreed to a coronavirus payment holiday.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M bought a mobile phone using an interest-free personal loan from 
Klarna. The loan was for 24 months and repayable at just over £22 a month.
In February 2020, Mr M cancelled his direct debit to Klarna and requested a direct debit 
indemnity for the previous 6 months payments. He says he didnt know who they were and 
on the phone to us he said he thought it might be a former partner. By email, he also said, 
having noticed it was a Swedish bank, he thought it was a Swedish lady whod stolen his 
card previously. On 28 February, Klarna wrote to Mr M to say this put him in arrears.
On 20 March, Klarna sent Mr M a default notice. On 24 March, Mr M asked Klarna for 
assistance. On the same day, Klarna wrote to Mr M asking him to complete and return an 
income and expenditure form so it could consider his financial situation and assistance 
available. The letter explained an assessment couldnt be made without the information in 
the form and asked for it to be returned in 10 days. Mr M says he didnt receive this form.
As the form wasnt returned nor the arrears paid, Klarna wrote to Mr M on 3 July 2022 to 
explain itd terminated his agreement and passed the outstanding balance to a DCA.
Mr M complained about what had happened. Klarna didnt uphold his complaint and Mr M 
brought the matter to our service. Mr M believes, due to coronavirus and the way Klarna 
dealt with his case, this situation is unfair. He doesnt feel it did enough for him and shouldnt 
have passed it to a DCA as he was told hed be put on a coronavirus payment holiday. He 
asked our service to negotiate with Klarna so he can pay the debt to them, not the DCA.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought the Klarna had 
acted fairly, reasonably and within the terms and conditions of his loan agreement. Whilst he 
noted Mr M said the letters werent received, he checked they were correctly addressed and 
considered it more likely theyd been delivered. Mr M disagreed and this matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont 
uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
After Mr M cancelled his direct debit, his account fell into arrears. However, even when 
Klarna contacted Mr M to explain the situation and he realised it wasnt a fraudulent 
payment, he didnt reinstate his direct debit or make any payments.
Mr M asked for financial assistance, but I havent seen any evidence a coronavirus payment 
holiday was agreed by Klarna. It wanted to understand his circumstances before agreeing to 
any financial support. This is because it needs to ensure any support is tailored to the 
situation. Its reasonable to expect Mr M to engage with Klarna and provide relevant 
information to allow it to understand and assess his circumstances. So, I consider it was 
reasonable for Klarna to ask Mr M to complete and return the income and expenditure form 
before considering what support would be offered, if any. I appreciate Mr M says he didnt 
receive the letter with this form but it was correctly addressed and he received other 
correspondence from Klarna. So, I dont think this is more likely what happened. However, 
even if I accepted Mr M didnt get the letter of 28 February, I wouldve still reasonably 
expected Mr M to get in touch with Klarna about this. In fact, he didnt contact Klarna until 3 
July  seemingly prompted by receiving the notice of termination.
In light of the fact Klarna didnt receive any information from Mr M when requested or 
payments since he cancelled his direct debit in February 2020, I consider it acted within the 
terms of the agreement when it terminated the loan agreement. It also seems to me to be a 
fair and reasonable decision for it to take in such circumstances. 
Mr M refers to the impact of the pandemic and says a coronavirus payment holiday was 
agreed. But his request to Klarna for assistance was made before the pandemic was 
declared. It was also before any measures relating to it were implemented in the UK or any 
guidance issued by the FCA to alleviate pressure on borrowers whose income had been 
affected by it. Mr M didnt contact Klarna again until after itd passed the debt to a DCA in 
July 2020. So, I dont consider the FCAs guidance was triggered here. Even so, when the 
FCA put the relevant guidance, lenders could still tailor any support based on the customers 
situation. And an income and expenditure form is one way for a lender to do this.
Mr M is unhappy Klarna passed his account to a DCA. This is within the terms of his 
agreement. As Klarna didnt receive any payments since Mr M cancelled his direct debit in 
February 2020 or information it asked for in March 2020, I also consider it reasonable for 
Klarna to have done this. I appreciate e wants to make instalment payments to Klarna but 
the debt is now with a DCA. So, Id encourage Mr M to contact the DCA about his debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman