DRN-2809547
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Hoist Finance UK Limited dealt with his account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the details of this case, so I will summarise things briefly.
This complaint regards a defaulted credit card account that was sold to Hoist in 2017.
Mr T has complained that Hoist performed a trace and wrote to his own address, when hed 
stated his preference that they write to his parents address. He was also unhappy that Hoist 
kept wanting to check his income and expenditure when looking at settling the debt. And he 
was unhappy that Hoist considered a payment to have been missed when he considered it 
to have been rescheduled.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that Hoist had run an 
automatic trace when they hadnt heard back from Mr T. They got Hoist to add a manual 
trace marker to his account to help stop that in future. They explained Hoist were entitled to 
run the trace, that they had a duty to make sure Mr Ts payment offers were affordable for 
him, and that it wouldnt make a difference whether the payment was considered missed or 
not as the account had fallen off Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T didnt agree. He felt Hoists trace was unsubstantiated and disproportionate as they 
already had his other contact details. He felt the manual trace marker was too reactive and 
too minor of a resolution. And he pointed out that the missed payment could have impacted 
him had the account not already dropped off his file.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive read through everything both sides sent to us, including Mr Ts detailed 
testimony. Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment for Mr T, though its not my intention to disappoint him. Ill 
explain my reasons  though I wont comment on every point both sides have made, and will 
instead focus on what I think are the key points. Its also worth bearing in mind that my 
decision is based not only on the letter of the relevant laws and regulations, but also on what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
I understand theres been some considerable debate over why Hoist traced Mr Ts address. 
According to Hoists records, hed missed a payment and theyd tried to get in touch with him 
but had been unable to. Whereas Mr T provided evidence that Hoist had corresponded using 
his up-to-date contact details before, so he felt they shouldve been able to get in touch with 
him using those and didnt need to do the address trace.
But whether Hoist strictly needed to carry out an address trace or not, they were entitled to 
do so. They were also entitled to write to Mr T about his account  indeed, they had to keep 
him properly updated. It was reasonable for them to check that they were using the most 
relevant address, and the trace they did was a legitimate and sensible way to check that. 
And here, the address they wrote to was Mr Ts genuine address. I dont think Hoist did 
anything substantially wrong by writing to it. 
Further, even if Hoist hadnt been entitled to write to Mr Ts address, I cant see that this 
wouldve caused Mr T any substantial losses. As far as hes told us, the reason Mr T had 
asked Hoist to write to his parents address was because hed mistakenly thought that if 
Hoist wrote to his own address then it mightve linked his debt to the person he lived with. 
But Mr T has himself acknowledged that he was mistaken, so he knows there wasnt any risk 
of such harm. Realistically, Hoist didnt actually cause any substantial loss by writing to Mr T, 
not least when it was to his correct address, about an account that was his, which they were 
legitimately contacting him about. So even if I thought that they were wrong to write to his 
address  which I do not  it doesnt look like thered be any loss to compensate Mr T for.
Hoist have now added a manual trace marker to Mr Ts account. So in future, theyll only do 
a trace if Mr T stops his payments and stops keeping in contact.
I understand Mr T may have found it frustrating to go through his income and expenditure 
when looking at settling the account. But Hoist had a duty to treat Mr T appropriately, 
including making sure that his payments were affordable  after all, they wouldnt want him 
potentially falling behind with more important debts or bills just to pay his old credit card. 
Again, I dont think Hoist did anything wrong there, and if anything Im glad to see they took 
such a comprehensive approach in making sure Mr Ts payments were affordable.
Lastly, I can see that Mr T let Hoist know he wouldnt be making a payment in November 
and would be paying them in December instead. I understand that from Mr Ts point of view, 
he considers that to be a rescheduling of the payment. I also appreciate that he contacted 
Hoist proactively. But it remains that Mr T didnt make any repayments in the month of 
November. So it seems reasonable that Hoist considered him to have missed his payment 
for November. In any case, the account had fallen off Mr Ts credit file, so even if I had 
thought Hoist were wrong on this point it wouldnt have made a difference. Mr T pointed out 
that it couldve made a difference had the account still been reporting on his file. But while 
I appreciate where hes coming from, we generally only award compensation for things that 
have happened  not things that couldve happened, but didnt.
In summary, I have not found that Hoist did anything significantly wrong here, nor that their 
actions had any substantial unfair impact on Mr T. So while I understand Mr Ts point of 
view, I have not upheld his complaint in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman