DRN-3384457
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Oplo PL Ltd was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In June 2019 Ms A took out a loan with Oplo for £10,000. She said the loan was to clear her 
debts and buy a car. The loan was taken out over 72 months with an APR of 29.04% and 
her monthly repayments were £276.89 making the total repayable £19,936.08. The loan has 
now been repaid.
Ms A complained that Oplo hadnt properly checked she could afford the loan.
Oplo looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Ms A referred her complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms As complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A would 
be able to repay the the loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms A wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms As ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms A undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms A. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint.
With regard to the first question, Oplo asked Ms A about her income and expenditure. It also 
did a credit check on Ms A. 
Im satisfied that this would have showed Oplo: 
Ms A owed £6,757 on four credit cards and a mail order account.
She was paying £293 a month on her mortgage.
Generally she was managing her finances well with no missed payments or arrears.
Oplo said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of 
affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, 
household composition and residential status. It also said it applied an extra 10% to the 
living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the customers 
circumstances or one-off additional expenses. Ms A told Oplo she had a net monthly income 
of £1,900. It said based on this, its affordability calculation showed that Ms A would have a 
monthly disposable income of £518.22 after taking into account her mortgage payments and 
the new monthly repayments to Oplo. 
However, this calculation assumed Ms A would still be paying £206.46 towards other credit 
commitments. I dont think this was right. I've taken into account that the purpose of the loan 
was partly to consolidate other credit  in other words, to pay off other debt in order to help 
reduce Ms As monthly outgoings. Ms A told Oplo she wanted to pay off the debt on three 
credit cards and a mail order account. That would have left her with one credit card with a 
limit of £200. So her disposable income should have been higher and more in the region of 
£700 a month.
Bearing in mind that the loan was for such a long time and a large amount, I think Oplo 
should have been doing more detailed checks, verifying Ms As income and expenses. 
Weve asked Ms A for her bank statements for the two month period before taking out the 
loan but havent received these. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that Oplo should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these might have given a good 
indication of Ms As financial situation around the time she applied for this loan. As I cant 
say with any certainty that Oplo would have uncovered information showing the loan would 
be unaffordable for Ms A, it would be unfair of me to uphold her complaint. 
Ive also thought about whether Oplo acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comment on my provisional decision and Ms A hasnt been able to 
provide us with copy bank statements, I see no reason to change my provisional findings 
and they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman