DRN-1868812
The complaint
Miss A has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA refused to refund a transaction 
she didnt make.
What happened
Miss A disputed a payment for £18, which was made from her PayPal account.
She said she was browsing on the merchants website on her mobile phone. She confirmed 
that she clicked on the product but said she didnt click on buy now.  However, she was 
taken to her Paypal account which read thanks for your order.
She raised a fraud claim with PayPal and asked for a refund.
PayPal refused to refund her. It said there was insufficient evidence of fraud.
Miss A persisted with her complaint and asked repeatedly for her referral rights to this 
service, which she said PayPal ignored.
Miss A didnt agree with PayPals decision and she was dissatisfied with the service she had 
received so she brought her complaint to this service.
After our involvement, PayPal offered to pay her £18 as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss A rejected the offer. She said she had suffered mentally and financially from PayPals 
poor service.  She asked for £100 compensation.
An investigator looked into her complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she couldnt 
reasonably conclude that the payment had been made fraudulently. And she thought 
PayPals offer of £18 was a fair and reasonable resolution in the circumstances.
Miss A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
She said PayPals failure to respond to her correspondence and request for referral rights 
caused her stress and mental anguish.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ordinarily, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 would be the relevant law when 
payments are made. These primarily require payment service providers, such as banks, to refund a customer if they didnt make or authorise a payment. However, the regulations dont 
apply to PayPal. Instead, PayPal is expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. And under the buyer protection policy, PayPal doesnt have to refund a transaction 
which was authorised by the customer.
However, I have taken into account the general principles behind the regulations, as well as 
PayPals user agreement and its buyer protection policy to determine whether Miss A made 
the payment herself and whether PayPal acted fairly in rejecting her complaint. Having done 
so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those reached 
by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
PayPals technical report shows that Miss As mobile device was logged into at 1.27pm on 1 
January 2020 and that the disputed payment was completed by the mobile express checkout 
at 1.28pm. 
Miss A has confirmed that she was searching for applications similar to find my I phone and 
found the merchants website via a Google search, although she couldnt remember the 
name of the website. According to a Google search, the merchant provides cell tracking 
products and services. 
Miss A said she sometimes enters a password to access her Paypal account but mostly 
payments are made automatically. She said she didnt enter her password for the disputed 
payment. This suggests very strongly that she has stored her PayPal account details on her 
phone. 
Im satisfied, therefore, that the payment was made from Miss As mobile phone. 
Miss A said no one else has her Paypal account details and no one else has access to her 
phone. And to be fair she hasnt suggested that a third party used her mobile phone and 
made the disputed payment. She said she didnt click buy now. So, she seems to be 
suggesting there was a technical fault or error or fraud by the merchant. However, there is 
no evidence to show there was a fault or fraud by the merchant. Im afraid that, based on the 
available evidence, I think its more likely than not that Miss A made the payment herself.
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account:
Miss A admitted she was on the merchants website
she said she was looking for a phone tracker app and this was the merchants 
business
PayPals technical report shows she logged in to her mobile phone and the payment 
was processed by the mobile express checkout
she confirmed that no one else had access to her phone or knew her PayPal account 
details.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for PayPal to refuse a refund of the disputed 
payment on the basis Miss A authorised it. 
poor service
I agree that PayPal could have provided a better service. It rejected her complaint without a 
clear explanation, other than to say there was insufficient evidence of fraud. And it didnt give 
her referral rights. It later explained it hadnt yet issued a final response letter and I note it 
was still within the time limit for doing so. But Im sceptical that it would have done so without 
our intervention. Despite this, Miss A brought her complaint to this service within two weeks of PayPal 
rejecting her claim, so I dont think she was disadvantaged by not knowing her rights. Quite 
the opposite, she clearly knew she was entitled to referral rights. Besides, its not the 
function of this service to punish businesses. Ive considered Miss As claim that she 
suffered mental anguish and financial loss. However, she hasnt provided any supporting 
evidence of any loss or impact on her.
In these circumstances, I think PayPals offer to pay her £18 as a goodwill gesture is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint. Had Miss A accepted this offer when it was 
made in March 2020 then she could have saved herself further anguish.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Miss A, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
It remains open to Miss A to accept the offer of £18 as goodwill gesture.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman