DRN-3898763
The complaint
Mr R complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to a solar panel system (the system).
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2015, Mr R purchased the system from a company which Ill call P. He financed 
it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Rs behalf under section 75 and section 
140 of the CCA to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made the following 
misrepresentations made Shawbrooks relationship with Mr R unfair on him:
The system would reduce Mr Rs monthly overheads through reduced utility bills and 
feed-in tariff (FIT) payments which together would cover the cost of the credit 
agreement -that is that it would be self-funding month-to-month.
Shawbrook said the claim was made outside of the time limits set out in the Limitation Act 
1980, so it had no liability and didnt investigate the claim.  
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They thought that the part of the 
claim relating to section 140 of the Act (to do with unfairness of the relationship) was made 
in time. This was because the loan agreement and therefore Mr Rs relationship with 
Shawbrook was still ongoing. Our adjudicator said that the system had not been 
misrepresented by P and that Shawbrooks relationship with Mr R was not unfair on him.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
There is nothing to confirm the explanation of the quote to Mr R was of satisfactory 
quality. 
Maintenance costs (such as replacing the inverter) and the cost of labour for repairs 
covered by the warranty were not made clear to Mr R. Taking into account those 
extra costs the system will not pay for itself within 14 years as suggested by the 
quote. 
There is a graph in the quote showing the average monthly returns over 20 years 
(about £130) exceed the monthly loan repayment (£95.62). 
The loan agreement does not include information about the benefits of the system.
Mr R wouldnt have bought the system if he knew it would take more than eight years 
to pay for itself. 
The CMC suspects that Ps sales representatives were paid about £750 commission 
for a sale, but otherwise would receive not payment (such as a basic wage) where 
they didnt make a sale. This incentivised them to do whatever it took to close the 
sale. That commission was unknowingly paid for by the customer through the loan 
they took out. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140 
gives the courts power to decide if the relationship between a creditor and debtor is unfair on 
the debtor. In assessing that the court can consider the relationship as a whole including 
things done or not done in relation to related agreements  in this case the sales contract 
between Mr R and P. 
Section 56 is relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and P, as the 
supplier of the system, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. 
So, if P misrepresented the system to Mr R, this could have made his relationship with 
Shawbrook unfair on him. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr R says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be self-funding on 
a monthly basis.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Rs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Rs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr R was told that the cost of the system was £8,804.00, the 
monthly payment was £95.62 (which is £1,147.44 per year), the total amount of credit was 
£8,804.00 and the total amount payable would be £17,211.60.
There is no requirement for point-of-sale loan agreements to provide information about what 
is being purchased beyond a basic description of the product/service and its price. So, I 
wouldnt expect it to show the estimated benefits of the system. That information would 
normally be provided in a separate document, which may compare the cost with the benefits. 
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,804.00, 
it would cost Mr R more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing 
loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:
 
I think it is clear from this that Mr R could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£597.71. This would be an average monthly income of £49.80. This is less than the monthly 
loan repayment of £95.62. The average annual FIT income over 20 years is also less than 
the annual loan repayment. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with Mr R, so Im 
not able to conclude that the Mr R was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr R could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £336.01 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £933.72. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together, the total 
in year one being significantly less than the annual loan repayments. So, it seems clear from 
this that the system would not be self-funding on a monthly basis from the start. 
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for only part 
of the year.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr R entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £94.07. 
For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£94.07 (slightly less than the actual loan repayment, but close enough to allow a fair 
comparison), to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and 
the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly compares the benefits of the system with the monthly loan repayments 
and shows that average monthly returns would be less than the monthly loan repayment at 
the start of the loan term and for several years thereafter. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr R 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
Self-funding
I have found that Mr R was not told the system would be immediately self-funding. However, 
I do accept that Mr R was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a certain 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 14 the overall benefits that 
Mr R could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr R that the system would pay for itself by the end of year 14, and 
this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr R. I have looked at Mr Rs FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr R hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr R couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr R entered into the contract.
The CMC has pointed to a graph in the quote which shows the average monthly returns over 
20 years with inflation would be about £130  which is more than the monthly loan 
repayment. I think this suggests the system will be self-funding within 20 years. I dont think 
it suggests the system will pay for itself on a monthly basis from the start. I have pointed to 
various other parts of the quote that make it clear the system will not be self-funding on a 
monthly basis. 
The CMC has said that maintenance costs and the cost of labour for repairs covered by the 
warranty were not made clear to Mr R. But this does not affect my decision. I think it would 
be reasonable to expect there to be some maintenance costs involved with a system that is 
expected to last for over 20 years. 
The CMC says that Mr R wouldnt have bought the system if he knew it would take more 
than eight years to pay for itself. But I have concluded that Mr R was told the system would 
take around 14 years to pay for itself. 
The CMC suspects that Ps sales representatives were paid about £750 commission for a 
sale, but otherwise would receive not payment (such as a basic wage) where they didnt 
make a sale. The CMCs suspicions are not supported by any evidence, so have not 
affected my decision. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr R to enter 
into the contract for the system. Nor that there is reason to think the relationship between 
Mr R and Shawbrook was unfair on him. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman