DRN-3923150
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has not refunded him after he fell victim to 
a vehicle purchase scam in January 2019. 
Mr B brings his complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for 
readability I will refer solely to Mr B throughout this decision.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I will not detail this at length. 
I will begin by briefly summarising what happened.
Mr B was looking to purchase a campervan and saw one advertised on a well-known 
internet marketplace. He bid for the item and won the auction at a price of £3,860. He 
contacted the seller, and it was agreed hed pay a deposit of £100 and then the remainder 
on collection.
But the seller then contacted him to say he needed £100 more now to help pay for a new 
van he was buying. The seller said theyd take this off the balance due and reduce the price 
to £3,600. The seller told Mr B his friend would deliver the van to Mr Bs address. Mr B 
agreed and sent a second payment from his Nationwide account for £100. 
The seller then asked for a further £400 because of the travel distance. This money was sent 
by Mr Bs parents account and does not form part of Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide. 
The seller said theyd accept a reduced final payment of £2,900.
Mr B said hed pay by a service offering buyer protection. But the seller said they didnt use 
that service. The seller said the driver couldnt accept cash and insisted on full payment in 
advance because the van would need to be driven some distance.
Mr B then sent a final payment of £2,900. In total hed sent £3,100 from his Nationwide 
account over two days.
The delivery didnt take place, and the seller stopped responding to Mr B. Mr B realised hed 
been scammed. He reported what had happened to the Police, to the online marketplace 
and to Action Fraud, but has been unable to recover any money through those routes. 
Mr B quickly contacted Nationwide, who attempted to recover the money hed sent from the 
recipient account. That account was also held with Nationwide. But wasnt possible  as with 
most scams of this type, the majority of Mr Bs money was already moved on elsewhere by 
the scammer. Nationwide also said that because Mr B had authorised the payments to be 
made it wasnt liable to refund him.
In 2022, Mr B complained to Nationwide. Nationwide reiterated that it didnt think it was liable 
to refund Mr B. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr B unfairly. 
He didnt think Nationwide should have had sufficient concerns about any of the three 
payment instructions to have prompted intervention before processing them. He didnt find it 
at fault for following Mr Bs instructions to make the payment he requested. Neither did he 
find Nationwide was at fault for any other reason or that it was otherwise liable for the money 
Mr B had lost to the scammer.
Mr B didnt agree with the Investigators findings. Subsequently it came to light that part of 
Mr Bs payments, the sum of £181.61, had remained in the recipient account at the time hed 
reported the scam to Nationwide. While it now seems the remaining £181.61 was 
subsequently removed from the account, if Nationwide had acted immediately in response to 
Mr Bs report then its possible these funds have been recovered and returned to him at the 
time. 
Nationwide has now offered to reimburse Mr B for that amount, with interest added at 8% 
simple calculated from the date hed originally made his payment. 
Mr B didnt accept the Investigators further opinion that Nationwides new suggested 
settlement represented a fair resolution to his complaint as a whole, and he has asked for 
everything to be reviewed and decided by an Ombudsman. So, his complaint has been 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same conclusions as those of the Investigator 
and for similar reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr B, so Id like to explain 
why.
Firstly, Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened. Mr B was tricked into sending 
money to someone to purchase a campervan but who instead took his money and gave 
nothing in return. He was the victim of an APP scam and hes been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result. Hes explained the impact this has had on him and his family 
members.
However, the main cause of his loss was the scammer who deceived Mr B.  It does not 
necessarily follow that Nationwide is responsible to reimburse him.
Its worth mentioning at this point that, since May 2019, a voluntary code exists to provide 
additional protection against APP scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  
CRM Code). Nationwide is a signatory to this code. But as the Investigator explained, the 
CRM Code is not retrospective. Because these three payments were made before the CRM 
Code took effect, the provisions of the CRM Code arent relevant to Mr Bs complaint.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks and building societies have an obligation to execute an authorised 
payment instruction without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that 
liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as 
the consequence of a fraud or scam - for example as part of a purchase scam such as this 
was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank or building society to 
reimburse the customer even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider 
that a bank or building society also has a duty to take reasonable steps to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
Of course, there is a balance to be struck here. It would not be realistic or practical to expect 
a bank or building society to intervene prior to processing payment in the vast majority of the 
huge number of payments that take place daily. But I consider that as a matter of good 
industry practice Nationwide should have been looking out for payments or payment patterns 
that were significantly out of character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of 
the potential for financial detriment to its customer through fraud or a scam. In other words, 
in situations where on the face of things, there was an apparent and significant risk of 
financial harm to the customer through fraud or scams.
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Nationwide did enough - given the specific circumstances here.
Ultimately, the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider 
Nationwide ought to have had significant concerns that any of these payments could be 
indicative of possible financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would 
have overcome its primary obligation to carry out Mr Bs payment instructions. 
The first two payments Mr B sent as part of this scam from his Nationwide account were for 
the sum of £100. I dont consider these would have stood out from Mr Bs normal spending 
patterns  there was nothing unusual or out of character here.
The larger payment he made the following day was for the sum of £2,900. Mr B argues that 
this payment (and the sequence of three payments as a whole) were unusual for him. 
But I dont think these instructions were so significantly out of character or unusual that I 
could find Nationwide at fault for not having taken further steps or intervened before 
processing them. 
While this was larger than most payments Mr B made from his account, I do not think the 
amount of the payment was such that Nationwide should have been concerned that this 
might be related to a fraud or scam based on that fact alone. Neither do I think this based on 
the other information Nationwide could reasonably have expected to know at the time about 
the payment.
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to say Nationwide should have intervened rather than fulfil its primary obligation 
to carry out Mr Bs instructions. 
So, I dont find Nationwide was at fault here in allowing Mr B to make these payments and I 
cant fairly require Nationwide to refund him for the remaining losses.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr B and I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime  a scam carefully designed to 
defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here is a significant sum and has 
had a significant impact on him and his family members since. But it is simply the case that I 
dont find Nationwide was at fault in making the payments in line with the instructions Mr B 
gave it at the time. Further, I dont find Nationwide liable to refund him for any other reason  
except as detailed below.
Recovery of funds
Nationwide accepts it could have acted more promptly in its attempts to recover Mr Bs lost 
money at the time he first made it aware of the scam. While almost all of his money had 
unfortunately already been moved on from the recipient account (and so could not have 
been recovered even had Nationwide acted immediately) some funds did remain at the time 
Mr B reported the scam - the sum of £181.61. Nationwide accepts fault on this point and has 
offered to pay Mr B that sum (being the amount it could have recovered at the time but for its 
delay) together with interest at 8% simple per year to reflect Mr Bs having being deprived of 
this amount for the time he has. I consider that is a fair offer in the circumstances  it is 
broadly in line with the offer I would have made had Nationwide not already suggested this. I 
dont require it to do more than it has offered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
If it has not already done so, then within 28 days of being notified of Mr Bs acceptance of 
this decision, Nationwide Building Society should pay him the sum of £181.61 plus interest 
on this amount at 8% simple calculated to the date of settlement less any tax lawfully 
deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman