DRN-3059308
The complaint
This complaint is about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against the late Ms Ks travel insurance policy. It is
brought by the executors of the estate of the late Ms K, who Ill refer to as Mrs S and Mrs J.
Ms K1 and Mr K are also assisting in bringing the complaint. Reference to Mapfre includes
its agents.
  
What happened
Ms K had an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. She was on a trip with Mrs J and 
Mrs Js children. In the early hours of 30 May 2019 - the last day of the trip - Ms K became 
unwell. Mrs J arranged for Ms K to be admitted to a local, public hospital on the island 
where they were staying. Ms K was diagnosed as having had a myocardial infarction - a 
heart attack.
Mrs J contacted Mapfre in order to start a claim. She told Mapfre that the treating doctor 
advised that Ms K would need to be transferred to another hospital that could provide 
specialist care. Ill refer to the chronology of events in more detail below. Ms K1 travelled 
from the UK in order to assist Ms K and Mrs J.
On 31 May 2019, Mapfre arranged to transport Ms K to a private hospital on the mainland. 
Unfortunately, Ms K had a second heart attack during the transfer and subsequently died.
Ms Ks family complained to Mapfre about the service she received. Mapfre said that it 
hadnt been proactive in managing the case and hadnt communicated clearly. It 
apologised and offered compensation of £250. That wasnt acceptable to Ms Ks family 
and they pursued the complaint.
Ms Ks family say that:
Mapfre was aware that urgent medical treatment was required and took too long to
start the process of transferring Ms K to a more suitable hospital.
The treating doctor said that Ms K would have had a greater chance of survival if
shed been moved to a more appropriate hospital sooner.
The delay in providing appropriate care may have caused Ms Ks death.
Mapfre didnt keep Ms K and others informed about what was happening.
Ms Ks reliance on Mapfre hindered her medical treatment: if she had travelled
uninsured her family would have arranged transport by air ambulance immediately,
which would have increased her chances of survival.
Ms Ks family say that theyve lost a family member, which is distressing. They want Mapfre
to explain the reasons for the delay, to provide an apology and to reassess its policies and
procedures to prevent this happening again. They also want compensation of £350,000.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that this service cant
award compensation for distress and inconvenience suffered by the estate of a deceased
person. The investigator thought that the compensation Mapfre had already offered in
relation to its failings in communication was fair and reasonable. She didnt think that
Mapfres failure to communicate with Mrs J caused Ms K distress, as Ms K was unlikely to
have been aware of the distress and inconvenience Mapfre caused to Mrs J. The
investigator couldnt say that Ms K was distressed about the time it took to arrange a transfer
to a more suitable hospital.
Ms Ks family didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
Mrs J and Ms K1 spent most of the time with Ms K on the ward in the hospital and
were aware that Ms K was uncomfortable, in pain and distressed for the entire
duration of her stay there.
Ms K started the transfer to another hospital 38 hours after Mrs Js initial call to
Mapfre.
Mapfre hasnt explained the reason for the delay in transporting Ms K to a hospital
that could treat her.
Ms K shouldnt have had to wait almost two days for a decision about treatment.
The investigator hasnt looked at whether Mapfre was responsible for delays in
transferring Ms K to a suitable hospital and why those delays occurred.
Its highly unlikely that Ms K would have suffered a second heart attack if shed been
transferred to a suitable hospital and received treatment sooner: the treating doctor
said that urgent treatment was essential.
Their motivation in pursuing the complaint is to prevent others suffering as Ms K did.
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change her view. Ms Ks family
asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 9 September 2021, I sent both sides my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
I am very sorry to learn about what happened to Ms K and I offer my condolences to 
her family. Im conscious that Ive condensed what was a very worrying time into a 
short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. 
But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened.
Its clear and quite understandable that there are very strong feelings about what happened. 
Im afraid that Ms Ks family will be disappointed that this service cant provide the redress 
they seek. Thats for two reasons. First, we are not the regulator and cant direct Mapfre 
about how it conducts its business. However, we would expect Mapfre to learn from 
complaints our service considers and ensure that steps are taken to address any failings 
that our service identifies. Secondly, we cant look at complaints that an estate or the 
relatives of a deceased person have suffered loss or bereavement because a person has 
died. Thats because the estate or the relatives arent eligible complainants according to the 
rules under which we operate. So, any award wont include any element of that kind of 
compensation. But I can look at what effect Mapfres actions had on Ms K. the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Ms Ks policy, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows:
Emergency medical assistance []
We will help you immediately if you are ill or injured outside the home area you live in 
[] We provide a 24 hour emergency service 365 days a year []
Health agreements
When travelling to a country in the European Union (EU) you should receive 
inpatient treatment in a public hospital.
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 4 for any costs for 
the following that are reasonable and necessary (see definition on page 14) as a result of 
you being unexpectedly injured or ill during your trip.
1. Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment and ambulance costs. []
We will not cover the following:
[]
6. Treatment or services provided by a private clinic or hospital [] unless we have 
agreed that this is medically necessary.
[]
9. Any transportation or repatriation costs other than those deemed necessary by 
our medical advisors. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. I intend to uphold the complaint because I dont think that 
Mapfre handled Ms Ks claim promptly and fairly. I say that because:
Under the terms of the policy, Mapfre is obliged to provide Ms K with immediate 
emergency medical assistance. As Ms K was in a country within the European 
Union, the starting point is that she receives care in the public system unless 
Mapfre agrees that its medically necessary for Ms K to receive care in a private 
hospital. And any transport costs have to be deemed necessary by Mapfres 
medical advisors.
Mapfre can only work with the hospital facilities and transport available in the 
country Ms K was in. Its also appropriate for Mapfre to validate the claim and seek 
relevant information and appropriate indemnities. So, decisions and action by 
Mapfre wont be instant. But in cases like this one, its obviously important that 
theres as little delay as possible and that Mapfre can demonstrate they took 
reasonable steps to support Ms K when she was unwell.
Ive looked carefully at Mapfres call and file notes. I think that Mapfre delayed 
transporting Ms K to an appropriate hospital. Ill explain why Ive come to that view.Mrs J first contacted Mapfre at around 3am on 30 May 2019. In that call, Mrs J said 
that Ms K needed to be transferred to another hospital with a cardiac unit. Mapfre 
set about gathering relevant medical and other information, which it was entitled to 
do to ensure that there was a valid claim under the policy. By around 9am on       
30 May 2019, Mapfres chief medical officer confirmed that it was medically 
appropriate to move Ms K. I dont think that there was significant delay up to this 
point.
Mapfre initially intended for Ms K to be transported by the public system to a public 
hospital on a larger island. The public system didnt appear to respond to enquiries 
about transportation. At around 5.20pm on 30 May 2019, Mapfre proceeded with 
the transfer arrangements. But by around 7pm, Mapfre had established that there 
wasnt a bed available for Ms K in a public hospital on the larger island. It was 
waiting for a public hospital on the mainland to say whether it had a bed for Ms K. 
Mapfre told Mrs J that transportation by air ambulance wouldnt happen that night 
and that a doctor in the hospital Ms K was in would enquire in the morning about 
availability in a public hospital on the mainland.
At around 10.20am on 31 May 2019, Mapfre authorised Ms Ks transfer to a private 
hospital on the mainland. Arrangements were made for the air ambulance to leave 
the mainland at 5.30pm and be available at the hospital Ms K was in from 6pm. I 
understand that, unfortunately, Ms K had a second heart attack during 
transportation and subsequently died.
Based on what Ive seen, after around 9am on 30 May 2019 - when Mapfres chief 
medical officer confirmed that it was appropriate to move Ms K - until around 
5.20pm that day, Mapfre was waiting to see if the public health system would 
arrange Ms Ks transfer to a suitable hospital. I think it was appropriate to enquire 
whether the public system would transport Ms K to a hospital that could treat her. 
But in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think that it was appropriate 
to wait around eight hours and most of the working day for a response to enquiries. 
I think that was lost time. Ive put these timings to Mapfre, and it says that it accepts 
my analysis of what happened.
It transpired after 5.20pm on 30 May 2019, that the private air ambulance provider 
couldnt provide the service within Mapfres service level agreements and that there 
wasnt a bed for Ms K in the public hospital on the larger island. That meant that    
Ms K spent a night in the public hospital that couldnt meet her medical needs.
I cant say with any certainty what would have happened if Mapfre had proceeded 
earlier in the day on 30 May 2019 to arrange private transport for Ms K to a hospital 
that could meet her medical needs. But on balance, I think that if Mapfre had 
proceeded without undue delay, its more likely than not that Ms K would have been 
transported to a suitable hospital on 30 May 2019 and that she wouldnt have spent 
the night of 30 May 2019 in the initial public hospital. 
I havent seen any medical evidence which would support a conclusion that, but for 
Mapfres delays, Ms K would have survived. Based on what Ive seen, Ms K was 
aware of what was happening. She spoke with Mapfre in the initial call. Mrs J and 
Ms K1 say that they were with Ms K most of the time and she was uncomfortable 
and in pain and distress. On balance, I think that Ms K knew that the hospital she 
was in couldnt treat her effectively and that she needed urgent transportation to 
and treatment in a hospital with a specialist unit. I think that Mapfre should 
compensate Ms Ks estate for Ms Ks distress and her additional pain and suffering 
caused by Mapfres delay in arranging transport to an appropriate hospital that 
could treat her.Ive thought about this matter carefully. For the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
compensate Ms Ks family for their loss or bereavement. And I dont intend to direct 
Mapfre to apologise. It apologised in its final response to the complaint and I dont 
think that a forced, repeated apology would have much meaning. But I can 
compensate Ms Ks estate for Ms Ks distress, pain and suffering as a result of 
Mapfres delays.
Considering everything, Im minded to award Ms Ks estate compensation of £2,000 
in relation to Ms Ks distress and her additional pain and suffering that could have 
been avoided if Mapfre had acted sooner. Based on what Ive seen, Ms K was 
aware that the hospital she was in couldnt treat her. That was no doubt distressing 
to Ms K. And, I think its more likely than not that if Ms K had been transferred to an 
appropriate hospital sooner, her pain and suffering would have been managed more 
effectively.
I also want to clarify that the estate of the late Ms K is unlikely to be able both to 
accept an award from this service and then go on to claim damages in the courts in 
relation to the same or overlapping matters. Without giving legal advice, once a 
matter has been determined or settled, parties are normally prevented from pursuing 
their claim again, even if they miss out on full compensation. This can apply where 
complainants accept an award from this service.
I mention this because, as Ive previously explained, this service doesnt look at 
complaints that an estate, or the relatives of a deceased person have suffered loss 
or bereavement because a person has died and should be paid compensation for it. 
So, the award Im proposing to make doesnt include any element of that kind of 
compensation.
If my final decision were accepted by Ms Ks executors, that could stop them from 
later seeking any further compensation (such as damages for dependents losses or 
for bereavement) that they might otherwise have wished to seek in the courts. I cant 
advise the executors so its a matter for them to consider, having obtained any legal 
advice they think is appropriate, which Id urge them to do.
For the reasons Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this
complaint and to direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. to pay compensation of £2,000 in relation to Ms Ks distress, pain and
suffering. Thats in addition to the compensation of £250 Mapfre has already offered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S responded on behalf of the family of the late Ms K. She said the family were 
considering its position and that it had nothing further to add. Mapfre didnt agree with 
my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
It doesnt believe that compensation of £2,000 is reasonable. Its willing to offer 
£750 maximum.
There was little Mapfre could do once Ms K was treated in the public system of 
the country she was in.
At 7.47am it was made aware that the treating doctor was arranging transfer to a 
larger island via the public system: that is the procedure in the country Ms K was in. Only a treating doctor can authorise the transfer of a patient to another public 
hospital. 
At 9.19am it asked its agents to make enquiries for a private air ambulance. At 
10.17am it received a quote of €9,250.
At 12.23pm it chased the public health system about the transfer as it was 
necessary to arrange a bed admission before air transport as, otherwise, Ms K 
would have been taken to A&E of the new hospital. 
At 6.15pm, after no update from the public health system, it agreed to arrange 
transfer via its agents.
At 6.55pm the treating doctor confirmed there wasnt an available bed on the 
larger island so their agent recommended the mainland and at 7.02pm it 
confirmed it would look at the mainland. At 7.06pm its agents were waiting for 
confirmation from the hospital on the mainland that it could admit Ms K.
It would have been more dangerous to transfer Ms K without there being a bed 
ready for her. Whilst there were no cardiologists in the public hospital she was in, 
there were doctors, medication and crash facilities. The air ambulance transfer 
would have been difficult for Ms K and if a bed hadnt been agreed, shed have 
been taken to A&E. If a bed for her had been arranged, she would have been 
transferred directly to the new treating doctor. 
At 10.21am the following day it agreed to transfer Ms K to a private hospital.
Whilst its sympathetic, it was clear that Ms K was very ill, and it doesnt believe 
its actions were unreasonable in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept Mapfres contention that there was little it could do once Ms K had 
begun treatment in the public system of her destination country, and I find that 
assertion surprising. The policy provides for 24 hour emergency medical assistance  
in the circumstances like the one that arose here. Whilst the policy also provides that 
Ms K should receive inpatient treatment in a public hospital, it was clear that it was 
medically necessary to move Ms K to a hospital that could treat her. Mapfres chief 
medical officer confirmed that at around 9am on 30 May 2019. So, Ms K could 
reasonably expect assistance from Mapfre in relation to moving to a hospital that 
could treat her.  
I agree that it was necessary to secure a bed and a treating doctor in the receiving 
hospital before moving Ms K from the hospital she was in. But I dont think that 
Mapfres role was simply to wait to see what the public system would offer Ms K by 
way of transfer to a hospital that could treat her. Ms K had cover for emergency 
medical assistance. I think she could reasonably expect Mapfre to proactively assist 
her in a timely way once it was established that the public hospital she was in wasnt 
suitable for her.  
Ive looked again at the chronology of events. Im aware that Mapfre took certain 
actions throughout the day on 30 May 2019. Ive looked closely at the steps to which Mapfre has drawn my attention. I remain of the view that it wasnt appropriate for 
Mapfre to wait around eight hours and most of the working day on 30 May 2019 to 
see if the public system would move Ms K to an appropriate public hospital. At around 
6.15pm on 30 May 2019, Mapfre agreed to arrange the transfer and at around 
10.20am on 31 May 2019, Mapfre authorised Ms Ks transfer to a private hospital on 
the mainland. I think it could have taken those steps earlier. 
Mapfre doesnt agree that compensation of £2,000 is reasonable. In coming to my view 
about compensation for distress, inconvenience and additional pain and suffering, Ive 
considered the impact of Mapfres delay on Ms K. I think its more likely than not that 
Ms K was aware that the hospital she was in couldnt treat her. That was no doubt 
distressing and worrying for her. And Ms K was in pain. On balance, I think its likely 
that Ms Ks pain would have been managed more effectively in a hospital that was able            
to treat her condition. So, I think that Mapfres delays caused Ms K additional pain and 
suffering. 
Mapfre hasnt explained why it thinks that compensation of £2,000 isnt reasonable and 
why £750 is appropriate. Ive considered this matter again and I remain of the view that 
compensation of £2,000 in relation to Ms Ks distress, inconvenience and additional 
pain and suffering is fair and reasonable in this case. It reflects the effect Mapfres 
handling of the claim had on Ms K. 
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision in this 
case. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Mapfre should pay compensation of £2,000 in relation to Ms Ks 
distress, pain and suffering. Thats in addition to the compensation of £250 Mapfre has 
already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to put things right as outlined above. 
I remind Ms Ks executors of the comments I made in my provisional decision about the 
consequences of accepting my final decision in relation to any further compensation they 
may seek to recover. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021. Louise Povey
Ombudsman