DRN-3927648
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Ms C and Mr M took out in 2020 on the advice and 
recommendation of Professional Mortgage Services UK LLP (PMS). They say they should 
have been steered towards a five-year fixed rate rather than a two-year deal.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms C and Mr M and PMS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Ms C and Mr M being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The essence of the complaint is that PMSs advisor directed them towards a two-year fixed 
interest rate product whilst failing to advise them a five-year fixed rate would be more 
suitable. They have brought this complaint because when they renewed their mortgage deal 
in 2022, it was on a much higher rate. They say this extra monthly cost could have been 
avoided if theyd been advised to take a five-year deal in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally; nor do we issue 
fines against financial businesses. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is typically the point-of-sale documentation. The 
value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous, so they should reflect what was 
said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible 
information might be recorded incorrectly, but its typically more reliable than peoples 
individual recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory, or more generally influenced by hindsight. So 
unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well generally 
attach some weight to it. 
Ive looked at the two key pieces of point-of-sale material on which PMS based its response 
to the complaint  the fact-find and suitability letter. The information contained in the 
fact-find, assuming it was captured correctly, would certainly support the recommendation of 
a two-year deal, and the suitability letter endorses that. 
Ms C and Mr M dispute the content, saying those documents werent shown to them at the 
time, and the first time they saw them was after the complaint began. 
PMS has said it doesnt routinely disclose fact-finds, but clearly Ms C and Mr M should have 
received the suitability letter. I cant be certain why that didnt happen, but overall, I dont 
consider it central to the outcome of the complaint. Thats because the point-of-sale 
documentation is, as I said, only a starting position. Here, the outcome turns on something 
else. 
Ms C and Mr M have gone to great pains to impress on us that they werent just focussed on 
having a two-year fixed rate, as PMS is claiming, but were concerned about rates generally 
and how they might change in the future. Im happy to take them at face value on that; their 
emails to PMS dated 12 March 2020 clearly demonstrate that. But I also have to consider 
how PMS replied to those emails. It did so the following day, in an email in which it said, 
variously:
Five year fixed rate charged at 1.48% with a monthly payment of £654 based on a 
loan of £530,000.
Ten year fixed rate charged at 2.34% with a monthly payment of £1,033 on a loan of 
£530,000.
That tells me that Ms C and Mr M were aware of, and knew they could express a preference 
for, a five-year fixed rate if that was genuinely what they wanted at the time. Insofar as they 
didnt, the conclusion I have to reach is that Ms C and Mr M chose to continue with the 
two-year fixed rate deal PMS was recommending, knowing they didnt have to. 
The most likely reason for this, it seems to me, is that they were influenced by the 
statements PMS made in the same email about the likely trend in interest rates generally. 
These were:
Interest rates falling globally and will continue to do so.
Fixed rates are not reducing as a result of recent base rate reductions as lenders 
have little margin to play with.
There is little/no chance that rates will come close to increasing for another 18 
months by which time you would be able to secure your next product, a long term 
fixed rate if that is your wish.
Those statements were expressed in slightly more certain terms than Id generally expect, 
and as PMS advisor has himself admitted, he could have clarified that they represented the 
view of the market generally rather than him personally. But thats not to say they in any way 
misrepresented the trend in interest rates as it stood at the time. The information PMS gave 
in that email was, in essence, a reasonable reflection of what financial markets generally 
thought about interest rates. 
The rapid rise in rates that caught Ms C and Mr M out when their two-year deal expired was 
a reaction to events that happened later. Indeed, looking at what happened after that email, 
I have to say PMS reply seems to have been remarkably prescient. The next change in 
Bank of England Base Rate, six days later, was downward from 0.25% to 0.10%. The next change after that, almost exactly 18 months later, was upward from 0.10% to 0.25% on 
16 December 2021. 
Ms C and Mr M have said that Ms C was vulnerable because she had only recently moved 
to the UK and was unfamiliar with the mortgage market here. I accept that to be the case, 
but there were two applicants here, and Mr M wasnt unfamiliar with the UK mortgage 
market; hes held a mortgage here before. 
Put all of that together, and Im persuaded Ms C and Mr M knew they had a choice of 
duration for their fixed rate mortgage. Im also persuaded they chose the two-year rather 
than a five-year deal in reliance, at least partially, on information PMS had given them about 
likely movements in interest rates. That information wasnt inaccurate or misleading, based 
on what PMS knew and could reasonably have known at the time. 
I understand Ms C and Mr M are feeling pressurised financially and so the increase in their 
mortgage costs will no doubt be most unwelcome. But just as PMS could not predict the 
financial upheaval of 2022 (driven primarily by outside global influences) that led to them 
having to renew their mortgage deal on more costly terms, nor could it have predicted the 
adverse effect on their income of Ms C going on maternity leave and Mr M changing 
occupations.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Ms C and Mr Ms submissions the intensity with which they 
have brought the complaint. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything PMS has 
done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when 
youre as close to a situation as Ms C and Mr M have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to 
provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will 
affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman