DRN-4251024
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc should not have 
closed its bank account.
The directors of F also control other companies, and they have made separate complaints 
on behalf of those other companies. This final decision relates solely to Fs dispute with 
Barclays; I have issued separate final decisions in relation to the other companies.
What happened
Barclays told us:
It wrote to Fs directors on 3 August 2022 giving them 60 days notice that it had 
decided to close Fs account and all facilities with Barclays in early October 2022.
Its decision to close the account was carefully considered. It complies with all its legal 
and regulatory obligations, and a decision to close an account is never taken lightly. 
It has thoroughly reviewed the circumstances and is satisfied that its decision to 
close Fs account was correct.
Rs directors told us:
They control two companies in addition to F. At the beginning of 2022 all three of 
those companies banked with Barclays.  
Barclays carried out a review of one of their other companies from May 2022 
onwards. The directors provided all the information Barclays asked for. The review 
took four months so presumably was extensive  yet Barclays still decided to close 
all three companies bank accounts.
They believe Barclays may have chosen to close the accounts of all three companies 
because of misinformation, but without knowing the precise reason for Barclays 
decisions they cannot properly challenge them.
If F cannot obtain banking facilities, it will have to close. It is not possible to operate a 
business like F without a bank account.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He said the terms and 
conditions of Fs account allowed Barclays to close the account in the way that it did, and 
that Barclays isnt required to give a reason for its decision.
Barclays accepted our investigators conclusions, but Fs directors did not. They would like 
me to order Barclays to continue providing banking services until they are able to open 
accounts elsewhere. They have not been able to trade with the threat of an account closure 
hanging over them, so they would also like compensation for loss of earnings as well as 
consequential damages for mental anguish and the loss of credibility with their regular 
suppliers and buyers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Fs directors, but there is very little I can add to what our 
investigator has already said.  
Barclays is entitled to choose who it would like to offer accounts to, just as customers are 
entitled to choose who they would like to bank with. But when it closes an account, it must 
do so in a way which complies with the terms and conditions of that account. So Ive looked 
at the steps Barclays took to see if it acted fairly.
In this case, Barclays gave Fs directors 60 days notice that it intended to close all of Fs 
accounts. Im satisfied that Barclays complied with its contractual obligations, and that it was 
entitled to close Fs accounts. In addition, having looked at Barclays rationale Im satisfied 
that its decision was not based on misinformation.
I know the directors would like Barclays to explain exactly why it has decided to terminate its 
relationship with F. Barclays has said that F does not meet its requirements to hold a 
business relationship, but Barclays is not obliged to tell F what those requirements are or 
why F does not meet them. 
I acknowledge that Barclays decision has made it very difficult  and perhaps impossible  
for F to continue trading. Im sorry to hear about the problems the directors have had trying 
to open new bank accounts for F elsewhere. But I dont think Barclays was wrong to close 
the accounts, so I cant order it to pay compensation or to continue offering banking facilities 
to F. Overall, I consider that Barclays treated F fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman