DRN-2205343
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) unfairly 
declined a claim under Rs business protection insurance policy.
Mr L who is a director of R brings the complaint on R s behalf.
What happened
R holds a business protection insurance policy with Allianz. Mr L made a claim on that policy 
to cover R s losses arising out of the closure of R due to the national government-imposed 
lockdown in response to the Covid 19 pandemic.
Allianz declined the claim because it said R didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Mr L didnt agree and thought the policy should cover R for its losses. Mr L said he 
thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for specified illnesses meant that 
Rs claim should be covered under this policy.
Our investigator considered Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathised with Mr Ls situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy for the situation R found itself in. Mr L doesnt agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had on R. But 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Rs complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
R is looking to claim on its business interruption insurance policy. There are a range of 
business interruption insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks; 
from basic perils like fire and flood to providing cover for additional perils  either as part of 
the policy or as an optional add on. When considering whether Allianz acted fairly in 
declining Rs claim, the starting point is to consider the specific policy R took out. As such 
Ive considered the policy R holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections 
that would require Allianz to meet the claim. 
Mr L has told us that R closed its doors in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown, which meant it wasnt allowed to remain open. The policy provides cover for 
several things, including specified illnesses and denial of access. So Ive considered each of 
these below and whether the policy would provide cover under that section for these 
circumstances.
Specified illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. So, the 
most likely section of the policy that could provide cover would be the extension in relation to 
specified illnesses. That section covers disruption to business activities as a direct result of 
any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises, or any occurrence of a Specified 
Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:

b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow
Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses in the policy, Im not persuaded this section provides 
R with cover in the circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified illnesses. I realise 
that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz would have known about when the policy was 
drafted, but I dont think that changes my findings. Ill explain why.
There are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These are usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Whereas Rs policy sets out a specific list of the 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. And there are several illnesses that the policy doesnt cover, including 
SARS (which is another type of Coronavirus). So I think the purpose of the policy is to 
provide cover in the event of the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or 
should fairly be interpreted as covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out 
above.
Ive also considered whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the illnesses 
specified in the list of illnesses covered, but I dont think it does. The policy doesnt define 
Plague, but it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious disease in its 
own right. Plague appears as a specified disease in the Governments list of notifiable 
diseases and is caused by a specific bacterium. In contrast Covid 19 is a viral infection. So, 
having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. 
Finally, whilst I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest 
dictionary definition as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so 
would render the list Allianz has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of 
the specified illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Allianz has. 
 
So overall I think the fact that Plague is listed separately in the policy and is different in 
nature to Covid-19 is enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall within the term 
Plague in the policy and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
to treat the policy as if it did. 
Damage and Denial of accessIve also thought about the denial of access section of cover and I dont think it applies to this 
claim. The denial of access part of the policy requires there to be Damage which prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the business premises. 
Damage is defined as Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1, 3, 4 and 7 of 
this Policy. Nothing in these sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by 
way of a specified illness or disease such as Covid 19, or even a government-imposed act. 
Rather they refer to physical damage in different situations. Because Covid 19 doesnt fall 
into the definition of Damage, it cant apply to the denial of access clause either. 
The FCA Litigation
Mr L has raised concerns about the recent outcome of the test case that was brought to 
determine whether cover applied to specific business interruption insurance policies. 
However as our investigator explained, Rs policy isnt one thats impacted by the findings of 
that case for the reasons set out on the FCA website, namely that the test case wasnt 
seeking to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of 
diseases which dont include Covid 19. Rs policy is one that contains this type of clause, as 
Ive explained above. So the outcome of the litigation doesnt change my thoughts on this 
complaint.
So for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly in declining Rs claim. I 
know this decision will be disappointing for Mr L but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough 
explanation of why Rs policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Rs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Rs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L on behalf of 
R to accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman