DRN-4174002
The complaint
Mr N complains that Revolut Ltd have given him different reasons for them requesting his 
identification again, despite this being provided at account opening. 
What happened
Mr N opened his Revolut account in 2018. He says that as part of onboarding he provided a 
copy of his passport, and he had no further issues until 2020, when he was asked to 
resubmit his identification. Mr N says that he has been told a number of different reasons for 
Revolut needing his identification again, such as Brexit requirements and the expiration of 
his identification  although he says his passport is valid for another two years plus. Mr N 
says that he has noticed that Revolut have changed the way they process onboarding and 
he suspects they didnt migrate the data. Mr N made a complaint to Revolut. 
Revolut did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. They said they have the responsibility to make sure 
that all Revolut accounts function according to the rules imposed on them by their regulators. 
Due to the sensitive nature of their work, which involves moving large amounts of funds, 
such reviews of identification is legally imposed on them as per the regulations they are 
subject to. They quoted their terms and conditions, which they say allow them to do this. Mr 
N brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. He said Revolut must abide by the banking 
regulations that govern how they operate. He said that from time to time additional checks 
need to be carried out on existing customers, even if checks were completed at an earlier 
stage. So he didnt feel Revolut have done anything wrong here. Our investigator said that 
the request was made in the aftermath of Brexit. Due to this, the regulatory environment 
changed, and Revolut needed to act accordingly. Having reviewed the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ns account, our investigator didnt find anything to suggest Revolut breached the 
agreement by asking Mr N to provide additional documentation.
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said that Revolut asked for his identification again after 18 months of his 
account being opened, and their justification for the request constantly changed. Mr N 
believes Revolut may have lost his identification. He believes they are violating their terms 
and conditions in blocking his account as he provided the information they asked for and he 
has only refused to provide his identification for a second time without an explanation why 
they need this again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ns complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
Id like to explain to Mr N that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
security procedures should be or how they satisfy themselves that they are meeting their 
legal and regulatory duties. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Revolut to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. Revolut are not obliged to share their security procedures with our 
service as this is commercially sensitive. And they are also not obliged to share these with 
their own front line staff or Mr N.
I asked Revolut if they could provide me with Mr Ns original identification so I could see if it 
was expiring as they had previously suggested. They explained to me that as their Know 
Your Customer (KYC) process was completed in 2018  five and a half years ago, they do 
not have evidence of what was specifically submitted to them by Mr N. They have said there 
is an indication that a passport  or other identification  may have been submitted to them 
at that time, but they do not hold a copy of this anymore which they said this could be related 
to internal system changes completed since then. 
Revolut provided me with an internal message which suggested Mr N was told he needed to 
provide identification again because the identification was expiring, but they confirmed that 
because they do not see the original documents anymore, they cant say what would have 
been the specific reason for the identification request, however, they confirmed it is common 
for them to re-KYC their customers every couple of years even if the documents are not 
expired due to various routine process changes, and each time, they also request a live 
selfie.
I know Mr N has concerns that Revolut have lost his identification, but Im not persuaded that 
because they arent able to provide a copy of this that it has been lost. I say this as its been 
noted that they have made internal system changes, so it could be something as simple as 
Revolut not migrating all of the data on one system to another system. There could be 
commercial/regulatory or legal reasons for not transferring all of the data to another system. 
Revoluts privacy policy confirms Personal data is stored on secure computer systems with 
access management controls in place to limit physical, system and information access to 
only authorised employees.  So I cant conclude the most likely scenario is that Revolut has 
lost Mr Ns identification. But if Mr N has concerns about how his data has been handled 
then he may wish to contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Although Mr N was given different reasons for needing to provide identification, the email 
that Revolut sent him dated 23 February 2023 informs him that This could be due to a 
number of reasons, including document expiration or changes in regulations, which mean we 
can't support your original verified details or ID document anymore. So this is why Revolut 
staff may have assumed the reason why Mr N was asked for his identification again as they 
may not be privy to the exact reason why it was requested, and Revolut are not obliged to 
share their security procedures with the people Mr N spoke to or himself, otherwise this 
could lead to their security procedures being compromised. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to see that Revolut have acted against their terms 
and conditions in blocking Mr Ns account. And Im not persuaded they have. I say this as 
regardless of the reason why theyve asked for Mr Ns identification again, the terms and 
conditions are clear that they may ask Mr N for more information about him, and he would 
need to provide the information to ensure there is no disruption to his account or services.
There is a section of the terms which says for Revolut to meet their legal and regulatory 
requirements they might sometimes need to ask for more information about him. It says to provide the information quickly so that there would be no disruption to his account.
But ultimately, section 24 of the terms show that We may close or suspend your account 
immediately (including access to other Revolut services like trading, crypto, and precious 
metals), in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional circumstances include, for example, the 
following: and one of the reasons given is if you havent given us (or someone acting on 
our behalf) any information we need, or have good reason to believe that information you 
have provided is incorrect or not true. So as Mr N had been told Revolut needed his 
identification for them to meet their regulatory/legal requirements and he hadnt given them 
this, then they were entitled as per the terms to suspend his account, regardless of him 
being told different reasons for needing to provide them with the identification. 
Revolut have blocked Mr Ns account as opposed to closing it at this stage. If Mr N wants to 
reactivate his account he will need to provide the identification that Revolut have requested 
in the way they requested it, or they may choose to close the account in the future, but as 
Revolut have not acted outside of their terms and conditions here, it follows that I dont 
require Revolut to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman