DRN-3004669
The complaint
Miss M says that Secure Trust Bank Plc did not treat her fairly after she had difficulties 
making payments under a hire purchase agreement.  
What happened
In July 2015 Miss M entered into a 60-month hire purchase agreement for a car with Secure 
Trust. She says that she agreed to make monthly payments of £272.66; this was based on a 
cash price for the car of £10,850 and a deposit of £1,570. 
Because of a change of circumstances Miss M found that she was having difficulty making 
payments. She applied to the County Court for orders giving her additional time to do so.
On 14 February 2017 the court made an order that Miss M should make the monthly 
payment of £272.66 with an additional sum towards the arrears  which the court said were 
just under £1,000. The order was to be reviewed on 17 July 2017. When it was, the court 
ordered Miss M to pay the outstanding balance under the agreement (over £11,000) by 
monthly instalments of £300. 
In February 2019 Secure Trust started its own court proceedings, seeking the return of the 
car. Its Particulars of Claim said that Miss M was in default of the hire purchase agreement, 
which had been terminated in January 2017. As an alternative to the return of the goods, 
Secure Trust sought a payment of £7,674.02, inclusive of the costs order made in July 2017. 
The Particulars of Claim said it attached a copy of the hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement attached said however that the cash price of the car was £11,850, a deposit of 
£500 had been paid and that the monthly payments were £361.41. It was not the agreement 
that Miss M said she had signed or the agreement on which the orders of 14 February and 
17 July 2017 had been based.      
The court considered Secure Trusts claim and on 5 June 2019 made an order requiring 
Miss M to return the car. Shortly before that hearing, on 3 June 2019, Secure Trust amended 
its Particulars of Claim to record that the total amount payable and the deposit paid were in 
line with the agreement that Miss M says she signed. 
Miss M asked this service to look into her dispute with Secure Trust. She said that it had 
been referring to the wrong contract in order to harass her, collect more money than was 
due and to put her into default. One of our investigators considered what had happened but 
did not think that Miss M had been treated unfairly. Secure Trust had referred to the wrong 
agreement in the court proceedings but had acknowledged that. The investigator was 
satisfied that payments had been based on the agreement Miss M says she signed. He 
noted that Secure Trust had offered £200 in recognition of that, a figure he thought was fair 
in the circumstances. 
Miss M did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules allow me to dismiss a complaint without consideration of its merits where its 
subject matter has been the subject of court proceedings and there has been a decision on 
the merits (see DISP3.3.4A(3) in the FCA Handbook). Miss Ms complaint here concerns the 
terms of the hire purchase agreement, the amount due under it, whether Secure Trust was 
right to issue a default and end the agreement, and whether Miss M should return the car. All 
of those matters were, expressly or implicitly, matters which the court had to consider before 
it made its order of 5 June 2019. It would have been open to this service therefore to decline 
to look at the merits of Miss Ms complaint. 
We do however have the power to do so and have exercised that power. Secure Trust has 
acknowledged that there were two different agreements produced. That with the higher 
monthly payments and lower deposit was produced following an application which was 
declined. I am satisfied however that it was not applied. That is demonstrated by the monthly 
payments which were taken before the account fell into arrears. 
The court made findings in both sets of proceedings about what was owing and what the 
arrears were. It would not be appropriate for me to say that those findings were wrong  the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not an appeal court  but I am in any event satisfied that 
Secure Trust did run the account on the basis of the higher deposit and lower monthly 
payments. I note as well that it arranged to have its Particulars of Claim amended to reflect 
the true position.  
The court appears also to have considered Miss Ms financial position. It suspended the 
possession order on condition she make payments in line with the order of 17 July 2017. I do 
not think I can properly say that its approach was unfair to Miss M. As the investigator noted, 
the car was a depreciating asset and it would not have been fair to let Miss M have 
continued use of it while she was in default of the hire purchase agreement. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Secure Trust Bank Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Miss Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman