DRN-4476695
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly avoided his commercial property 
insurance policy and didnt deal with a claim he made following a fire.
Reference to AXA includes its agents
What happened
Mr S held a commercial property insurance policy with AXA. Following a fire at the property, 
he made a claim for the damage.
When investigating the claim, AXA thought Mr S had failed to make a fair presentation of the 
risk when taking the policy out. It said hed not made a fair presentation about the number of 
bedrooms in the property, or what the property was being used for. It said these were 
qualifying breaches of the Insurance Act 2015. It said these breaches entitled it to avoid Mr 
Ss policy  or put a different way, act like it didnt exist. And because it had avoided his 
policy, there was no policy Mr S could claim from, it didnt deal with his claim.
Mr S didnt agree, he maintained hed given a fair presentation and thought AXA should deal 
with his claim. AXA didnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Mr S hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the number of bedrooms in the property, and she was satisfied AXAs actions 
were in line with the Insurance Act 2015.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all the evidence provided, and Im satisfied Mr S saying the property 
had five bedrooms isnt a fair presentation of the risk. Im satisfied he was asked a 
clear question about the number of bedrooms the property had. A fair presentation of 
the risk would have been to declare six bedrooms. The plan from AXAs loss 
assessor, and Mr Ss own testimony in a signed statement show the number of 
bedrooms in the property is six. I find that the most persuasive evidence.
AXA has shown underwriting evidence confirming had it known the property had six 
bedrooms, it wouldnt have insured Mr S. I appreciate Mr S has said other insurers 
would have, that may be the case, but AXA has shown it wouldnt have been one of 
them.
Considering the above two points, Im satisfied Mr Ss failure to make a fair 
presentation of the risk constitutes a qualifying breach of the Insurance Act 2015.
AXA has treated this breach as neither deliberate nor reckless, and because thats 
the most favourable outcome for Mr S, Im not going to interfere with that decision.
The remedy for a neither deliberate nor reckless breach of the Insurance Act 2015, 
when the insurer wouldnt have offered cover if a fair presentation had been made 
allows AXA to avoid the policy and not deal with any claims. But it must return any 
premium paid for the avoided policy. Thats whats happened here, so Im satisfied 
AXAs actions are fair and in line with the Act.
Our Investigator didnt touch on the allegation AXA made in relation to the property 
being used as a house of multiple occupancy (HMO). They did so because they were 
satisfied AXAs decision relating to the presentation of the bedrooms was enough to 
justify AXAs actions. And Im satisfied thats reasonable.
But, Im also satisfied AXAs allegation is fair. Again, Mr S was asked a clear 
question about the use of the house and stated it wasnt used as an HMO. The 
evidence Ive seen, on balance, indicates it was more likely than not being used as 
an HMO.
AXA has also shown it wouldnt have offered cover if Mr S had said the policy was 
being used as an HMO. So, like the presentation of the bedrooms, Im satisfied 
Mr Ss presentation of the use of the property wasnt a fair one. And that failure 
constitutes a qualifying breach of the Act, allowing AXA to take the action it has as 
set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman