DRN-3042994
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) 
when he transferred his two existing personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
His funds were subsequently invested in high-risk investments and he lost the majority of his 
SIPP value. Mr M said he was led to believe he was taking a product that was appropriate 
for his circumstances and only wanted a low risk plan.
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
The Legal Partnership (LP)  unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
James Hay (JH)  SIPP provider
Mr M said he contacted LP after finding their details online. He had been notified by his 
current pension provider that he was approaching his nominated retirement age of 60 and 
had been offered a review of his options. He decided to find a third party for advice on what 
to do and hoped to find a plan with better returns and lower charges. LP introduced him to 
Pi.
Mr M signed a letter dated 23 July 2014 to Pi saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plan with  into a new Self invested Pension 
Plan, in order to allow me to access a wider range of investment. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer 
accordingly.
Please note that I have a separate investment adviser who will be arranging the investments 
to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require any advice from you concerning 
this, or the suitability of a SIPP platform.
I hope that you will be able to assist me and look forward to hearing from you regarding this 
request.
Mr M says he did not write this letter himself and was given a copy to sign. The letter is 
typed, but a blank space was left for the name of the pension company, which was added as 
a handwritten note.
 On 25 July 2014 the adviser from PI replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of 23rd July 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your current 
. Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to carry 
out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the most 
appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
I will have no input in the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into, the SIPP.
Mr M signed a client agreement and a service agreement with Pi on 29 July 2014. The 
service agreement indicated the service level was Limited advice service only.
A Fact Find was completed, which is undated, but appears to have been completed around 
this time. This included a handwritten note from the adviser, stating:
 client has his own adviser and has only asked me to set up a suitable SIPP for him. 
Client has advised that he may directly invest in shares.
The Fact Find noted that Mr M had savings of £17,000 and £14,000 in ISAs/PEPs. He was 
59, employed and owned his home outright. Mr M has since disputed the level of liquid 
assets recorded on the fact find, saying that it was more like £3,100. His retirement age was 
recorded as 66.
He had a deferred defined benefits pension with his employer and was contributing to a 
group personal pension, which he joined seven years earlier. Neither of these were included 
with the transfer. 
The Fact Find noted:
Mr M has got £64k approx. in frozen schemes that are not doing well and wishes to look at 
an alternative pension vehicle for them. He has got substantial other pension benefits 
through his current employer.
Mr M signed A Knowledge and Experience  Assessment form on 29 July 2014. This stated 
that, in the last ten years, Mr M had experience of bank accounts, tax free investments and 
personal pensions.
Two Pension Replacement Contract Forms were completed on the same day. They included 
information about Mr Ms existing pensions and the new SIPP, including charges and 
whether the existing plans held any guarantees. The risk category for the SIPP was 
recorded as medium. This matched the recorded risk ratings for the existing plans.
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
OtherA section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was circled as no. And a note recorded this option 
was discounted because: 
Client setting up SIPP to choose own funds.
Pi sent a suitability report dated 5 August 2014 and headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer. This said, amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information 
from you to advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may 
have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances.

Background

You wish to invest in and choose your own Investment to invest your SIPP monies. I will 
have no input in where you wish to invest your monies of your SIPP and will set up the SIPP 
with a provider on your behalf. You have intimated that you may wish to invest directly in 
shares within your SIPP funds. I have given no advice on where you should invest your SIPP 
funds and have only set up your SIPP investment with the appropriate provider.

Your Risk Profile
Ordinarily I would complete a risk profiling' questionnaire, however as you wished to carry 
out your own investments you felt this was not required.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The adviser outlined the points to consider for a transfer including charges, exit penalties 
(none); guaranteed annuity rates (none) and investment selection. 
It also said the effect of the charges would depend on the investment chosen within the 
SIPP.
The recommendation section said:
After doing my research on the most appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs, I 
have recommended a James Hay SIPP. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other 
providers on the original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up 
fee and quality of service. It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier.
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP. The report was signed to confirm that Mr M had 
received and understood it on 11 August 2014.
It was noted in the Provider section that a copy of the research undertaken with Defaqto 
Engage had been provided with the report, which outlined in greater detail the reasons the 
recommended provider had been chosen. The copy of the Defaqto report was dated 30 July 
2014. 
An application for the SIPP was completed and signed by Mr M on 11 August 2014. The 
form showed Pi as the financial adviser and the initial adviser charges for transfers was 3% 
of each pension transfer received. The plan start date was 1 August 2014 and a total of 
£67,705.90 was transferred to the SIPP on 29 August and 2 September.
Mr M signed an Account Opening Form with HS on 5 December 2014. This confirmed he 
wished to invest £65,000 and appointed them to provide a discretionary service. His attitude 
to risk was recorded as Medium. He confirmed he was willing to invest through a managed 
CFD (contract for differences) account and understood it was a high risk, speculative 
product.
A secure message was sent to JH by Pi on 11 March 2015 to request a transfer of £64,500 
from the SIPP to the HS stockbroker account.
Mr M complained to Pi in February 2018 who didnt uphold his complaint and so it was 
referred to this service. Mr M also complained to HS (via the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme). The FSCS directed Mr M to complain to Pi.
Information provided by JH shows that Mr M requested to close his SIPP and withdraw all 
his money in August 2020.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He recommended that it should be 
upheld. He said it wasnt fair and reasonable for Pi to advise Mr M to transfer his pension to 
a SIPP without any clear reason for doing so, or taking into account his investment strategy, 
thus subjecting him to significant losses.
Pi disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also taken into account 
their more recent submissions on a similar case which are also relevant to this complaint. 
However, Ill focus in this decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in 
deciding the fair outcome of this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. It only provided Mr 
M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature 
of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was suitable in full compliance with COBS 2.4.4 and 11.2.19. Any liability could only be in 
regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr M.
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr M had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. 
Mr M had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. They did compliance checks and there were no red flags which should 
have caused them to refuse to arrange the transfer for Mr M.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party. HS is responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. The fact that HS is now in liquidation doesnt change this.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr M did follow Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 30 July 2014 and prepared by Pis adviser 
and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the James 
Hay iSIPP for Mr M. 
The suitability report dated 5 August 2014 headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your existing personal pension plans. 
The report then went onto outline the points to consider. It said In undertaking this transfer I 
would like to draw your attention to the following. It went on to list, amongst other things, the 
charges for the SIPP Pi was recommending, and confirmed there were no exit penalties from 
the original arrangements and that they didnt provide guaranteed annuity rates. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a James Hay 
SIPP. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the original research 
due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr M. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. Mr M 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Mr Ms 
personal pension to the SIPP or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Ms recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was to choose his 
own funds and Pi was aware that more specifically he intended to invest in direct equities. 
I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
 The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
It specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they could 
advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further alert in 
which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. Pi says 
the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser was the 
only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I strongly disagree with Pi that the 
alerts here are not relevant in Mr Ms case. I want to be clear, however, that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Ms case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the Multi Platform 
James Hay SIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction 
including the pension switch and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr M was 59, married, employed, with an annual income of £30,500. He had savings of 
£17,000 and £14,000 in ISAs or PEPs, although no details were recorded about the holdings 
within the wrappers. Mr M has disputed the actual level of liquid assets he held at the time, 
but I see no reason not to accept the information on the fact find. His personal pensions 
were invested in managed funds. His other pension plans were a preserved defined benefit 
scheme from his employer and a live group personal plan with the same employer.
Pi didnt establish Mr Ms attitude to risk or to what extent he could bear financial risk (often 
referred to as capacity for loss). The suitability report suggests Mr M felt a risk profile wasnt 
required. However, it didnt matter what Mr M might have considered necessary or not in this 
regard. Pi was required to meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to 
obtain this information about Mr M before making their recommendation. They failed to do 
this. Mr Ms limited assets and answers on the knowledge and experience assessment should 
have given Pi an indication that Mr M didnt really have any significant investment 
experience. The suitability report says Pi discussed Mr Ms experience and knowledge and 
said they established he had reasonable experience as he had previously received advice 
on different products and had invested in a range of pensions and investments before. 
However, I cant see evidence that Mr M had previously invested into particularly high-risk 
investments or was otherwise particularly knowledgeable when it came to investments. His 
personal pension was invested in a balanced managed portfolio. And even on his HS form a 
box was ticked to say his attitude to risk was medium. Even if Mr M had suddenly wanted to 
invest into high risk investments, I think its highly unlikely he had the knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved in CFDs. This is a very high risk and speculative 
product which is complex and generally suited to more experienced investors. Pi have 
previously confirmed to this service they agree that CFDs arent suitable for retail clients, so I 
dont think this matter is really in dispute.
Its unclear whether Pi knew in this particular case that Mr M was planning to invest in CFDs 
when they gave their advice. However, Ive seen email correspondence between Pi and HS 
in 2015 where Pi was requesting statements for their clients which included Mr M. Pi said : 
[The statements] are all off by quite a bit and [Pis adviser] wants to speak to them. The 
email chain indicates that Pi and HS were in frequent contact about their mutual clients.
This shows that Pi was still actively involved after the investments were made which 
somewhat conflicts with Pis statement that they only recommended the SIPP and played a 
very limited role in the process. And it was Pis adviser who requested the funds to be 
transferred to HS. At this point Mr M had already opened his HS account and completed the 
necessary forms which showed he was to invest in CFDs. Pi also explained to this service 
that during their due diligence enquiries with HS, they confirmed to Pi that "at present all our 
SIPP clients' have a portfolio containing ETFs and CFDs. So overall Pi knew or ought to 
have known that Mr M was about to invest in an unsuitable product.
Even if I assume Pi originally didnt know what Mr M wanted to invest in, they should have 
found out before they gave their advice. As stated before, Pi needed to consider the 
transaction as a whole and without knowing what Mr M was planning to do and achieve, they 
couldnt reasonably conclude whether the transfer to a SIPP was suitable. 
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the intended investment into CFDs was 
unsuitable for Mr M. If Pi wasnt able to identify this with the information they had, then at the 
very least I think this would have been evident if they had asked Mr M more questions about 
his circumstances and intentions-like they ought to have done. 
Pi knew-or ought to have known- that Mr Ms intended investments through HS were 
unsuitable as they were too high risk. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and facilitated 
this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have 
explained that his intended investments were too high risk for his circumstances. I also 
havent seen any persuasive evidence that a SIPP was generally suitable for Mr M. I cant 
see that costs of his existing pensions and the SIPP were properly compared or that low cost 
alternatives like a stakeholder pension were explored. Given Mr Ms lack of investment 
experience I cant see that it would have been reasonable to expect Mr M to choose and 
manage his own investments and using a discretionary fund manager is usually more 
suitable for larger portfolios as the additional charges can considerably affect returns.In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
without having regards to Mr Ms overall situation. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Ms 
interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal recommendation 
was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis 
actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that as Mr M came to them with a stated desire to switch to a SIPP, it seemed 
beyond doubt that he would have found someone else to complete the transaction if it had 
refused to recommend the SIPP.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr M would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered 
high risk investments to be unsuitable for him. 
Mr M said he contacted LP after finding them on line when he wanted to review his 
pensions. This was prompted by his existing provider writing to him as he approached age 
60. Mr M says he wanted to potentially get a better level of return, along with lower charges, 
from a new provider. Although Mr M may have signed the initial instruction letter to Pi, I think 
it needs to be considered in the context that the letter was clearly drafted for Mr M, hence 
the blank space for his pension providers name to be written in. There was no longstanding 
relationship between Mr M and LP which might have led to him rejecting the advice of Pi as 
a regulated and independent party. I accept the consumer was likely to have switched 
providers, but I dont see any reason why he would have insisted on doing this through a 
SIPP, a product he had no experience of. 
Its true that the risk of the underlying investment was highlighted in the CFD account 
opening process/forms. However, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a preofessional 
and independent firm recommending him not to proceed would have carried significantly 
more weight than the general wording in the application forms warning the investment was 
high risk
So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr M 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP without knowing full details of how his pension was going 
to be managed, told him the limited information it did have indicated the intended 
investments werent suitable for his circumstances and explained that the transaction wasnt 
in his best interest, he likely would have decided not to proceed. 
If LP had continued to try and persuade him to proceed regardless, Mr M would have faced 
a choice between taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im 
not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M would more likely than 
not have proceeded this way if Pi had explained the position in full and recommended 
against the SIPP and investment with HS.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr M would be invested in and they either knew or 
should have known Mr Ms intended investments would include CFDs. Pi agreed that 
[CFDs] are not suitable for retail clients
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr M with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have known that his 
investments would include CFDs which Pi considered unsuitable for retail clients like Mr M.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more 
likely than not would not have proceeded with the switch to a SIPP and subsequent 
investment through HS. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair 
that Pi compensates Mr M for any losses he suffered by transferring into the SIPP and 
investing into high risk investments through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP without establishing 
how Mr Ms pension would be invested.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the decision, 
I think Mr M would have likely not ended up in the SIPP and HS account but for Pis failings 
and if they had met their obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he wouldnt 
have suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M suffered 
from the high-risk investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr M and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Ms losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service were findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr M are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. 
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Ms loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation. 
In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Ms losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi knew or ought to have known this was a high-risk and speculative investment product and 
they agreed in their submissions that they didnt consider this suitable for Mr M. So Im satisfied the real risk of Mr M suffering substantial losses and even the risk of total loss of to 
his pension would or should have been foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, as I said above, Pis suitable advice would have more likely than not 
prevented all losses. Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr M could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr M suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.
In my view Mr Ms losses flowed from Pis failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr M for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high risk 
investments. 
I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr M as far as possible in the financial position he would be in 
but for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr M wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr M. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr Ms losses flowed from PIs failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr M for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. He might have remained in his existing plans or consolidated them in a new 
plan. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
Usually I would ask Pi to pay compensation to Mr Ms pension. However, as Mr M closed his 
SIPP and has since retired, Pi should pay any compensation amount to Mr M directly. If the 
compensation was paid into the pension, the income from it would have been subject to 
income tax. Therefore the compensation paid to Mr M directly should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid if compensation had been paid to is 
pension. Mr M told us hes paying basic income tax, and so any reduction should equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Mr M £300 for the distress he suffered when he 
realised he had lost the majority of his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP closedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of SIPP 
closure8% simple per 
year from the 
end date to 
the date of 
the final 
decision to 
compensate 
Mr M for 
being 
deprived of 
these lost 
funds in 
retirement
Additionally, Pi should pay 8% simple per year on the compensation amount from date of 
this final decision to the date of settlement (if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the 
business being notified of Mr Ms acceptance of this decision).
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:Mr Ms previous pensions were invested in balanced funds.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay him compensation as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman