DRN-3611802
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund transactions he says he did not make 
and does not recognise.
What happened
Mr K is disputing fourteen transactions that were debited from his Santander accounts.
At the end of October 2020, seven third party payments totalling £1,460 were initiated using
Open Banking from Mr Ks account ending 0981. Then in the days that followed, seven
faster payments totalling just over £15,000 were made from Mr Ks account ending 4718.
Mr K has explained that he has no idea who the money has gone to or what that reference is
in relation to.
Mr K has explained that he first discovered large amounts of money had been transferred
between his accounts when he checked his online banking. He contacted Santander and
raised a fraud claim about the faster payments from account ending 4718. He later
discovered the Open Banking payments and added them to the claim, as well as reporting
the matter to the police and Action Fraud.
Santander declined Mr Ks fraud claim. It said it was unable to refund him because the
transactions being disputed were authenticated using his mobile device via online banking.
In its final response, Santander maintained its position to decline the claim. It said it was
unable to see how a third party could have accessed Mr Ks online banking information or
had access to the text messages that were sent to his registered mobile number when some
of the disputed payments were made. Santander said that the device used to make the
payments had been registered to Mr Ks account and mobile number in July 2020.
Santander also paid Mr K £50 compensation in a separate final response to acknowledge
the bank had caused him inconvenience by not telling him that his debit card had been 
restricted as it had potentially been compromised.
As Mr K was unhappy with Santanders position, he referred the complaint to this service. He
said that the device used to make these payments wasnt his and hed never owned that
particular model of tablet. He provided details of his devices and their serial numbers along
with details of his IP address. He explained that hed never received any one-time passcode
messages to his phone during the period that the money was taken.
Our Investigator asked Mr K to contact his mobile phone company. He did so and there was
no evidence of anyone else accessing his mobile phone or swapping his sim. Our
Investigator also asked Mr K questions about his phone and his payment tools. He said that
no-one would have been able to access his card or his online banking details because hed
not shared them with anyone, nor did he think hed inadvertently given them out by
responding to any phishing messages. He explained that hed always had a password on his
phone and no-one else could have accessed it.
After making extensive enquiries, our Investigator was unable to see how anyone else would
have been able to make the payments Mr K was complaining about. She didnt think it was
likely that an opportunistic fraudster would have added the device to Mr Ks account profile in
July 2020 and then waited over three months to use it. She also couldnt see how anyone
else could have obtained Mr Ks new online banking log in details after hed changed them in
August 2020, nor could she understand how anyone else could have been in a position to
positively respond to the one-time passcode messages sent to Mr Ks registered phone
number.
Mr K was disappointed with the outcome and asked for it to be reviewed. He explained that
hed not given his details to anyone. He said as much as there is no proof that he had not
given details away or taken out the money, there was also no evidence to suggest that he
did. He felt that it was his word against Santanders.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
My further investigation
As part of my review, I requested further information. When Mr K referred his complaint to
us, he said he was going to ask Apple for a list of all of the devices his profile had ever been
associated with. I asked Mr K if he had ever been able to obtain that information. He wasnt
able to get that information directly from Apple, but he did provide screenshots of his Apple
profile to show the devices he is currently connected with.
I also asked Mr K about a payment that Id noted in the banks technical records. It was
attempted but abandoned without being made on 14 August 2020. It was set up using the
tablet Mr K disputes owning. Mr K responded to say that he didnt remember the payment
and suggested it may have been the fraudster trying to first access his account.
I noticed from the banks records that the payments our Investigator had identified as card
payments were actually Open Banking payments. I asked Santander when Mr Ks profile
had consented to use Open Banking. Santander responded to say the disputed third-party
payments were the first time Mr Ks profile had been used for any Open Banking activity.
The bank highlighted the payment screens that would have been displayed at the time those
payments were made.
I also contacted the third-party provider that had initiated the payments to find out more
about what they were for, as this was not clear from Mr Ks statements. The third-party
provider responded and explained that it had offered a payment service on behalf of an 
online gaming company and it was the gaming company that ultimately received the funds. It
explained that the gaming companys customer selects the third-party provider as the
payment method, then the customer is redirected to an authentication screen provided by
the customers own bank to complete the payment. The third-party provider said the
information it had obtained from the online gaming company about its customer matched
Mr Ks details.
I contacted Mr K and updated him on what Id found out. I explained that to use a gaming
merchant usually a potential customer needs to be verified with photographic ID alongside
address verification so that the gaming company can meet its legal requirements. I asked
Mr K if he recognised this company. Mr K said hed never used online gaming services. He
contacted the gaming company and discovered it held an account in his name. He provided
evidence to show that the gaming company had now closed the account in light of his
comments that it was opened fraudulently. The gaming company would not disclose any
further information to Mr K about how and when the account was set up.I noted that almost £650 of the disputed faster payments made from account ending 4718
had been recovered. I asked Santander if it knew more about why this money was returned.
It provided what it could to me about the recipients account in confidence.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 November 2022. In it, I explained why I didnt intend 
to uphold Mr Ks complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In cases when it is not clear what happened, I have to base my decision on the balance of
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence. Theres a lot of money involved in this dispute so I can understand
why Mr K is concerned. But having considered everything thats been said and provided so
far in this case, I cant see how the payments in dispute could have been made without
Mr Ks authorisation. This means that Santander can fairly hold him liable for the disputed
transactions.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because the
Payment Services Regulations 2017, which are the relevant regulations that apply to the
payments in dispute, explain that account holders will usually be liable for payments theyve
authorised, and generally speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr K
made the disputed transactions himself or agreed for them to be made on his behalf, it would
not be fair to ask Santander to refund them. But Mr K says he was not involved in the
payments in dispute.
Im satisfied from the banks technical records that personalised security information
alongside payment tools issued to Mr K (such as one-time passcodes sent to his registered
mobile phone number) were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him
liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than
not that Mr K consented to the payments being made.
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the
transactions were made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Mr K either with or
without his permission, or by Mr K himself.
Mr K has consistently maintained that he has no knowledge or connection to any of the
payments that are in dispute. Hes reported the matter to the police and to Action Fraud, and
hes done as much as he can to try and find out how and when an account in his name was
set up with an online gaming company. But these factors do not mean that the transactions
are automatically unauthorised. I must consider the wider circumstances surrounding the
payments in dispute.
Ive thought carefully about how the payments in dispute were made. I have not gone into
explicit detail about the banks security processes, instead I have focused on the steps that
someone making these payments would have needed to follow.
The banks records show that the device that was used to make the payments in dispute
was linked to Mr Ks profile on 13 July 2020. To link the device to Mr Ks credentials, a text
message was sent to Mr Ks registered mobile number. Santander has held the same mobilephone number for Mr K since 2015 and it is the same phone number that Mr K has used
when speaking to this service. Mr K has not suggested that there has been any problem with
his mobile phone service or his handset at any point. Hes confirmed there have been no
problems with his phone service directly with his mobile phone company. Hes also
explained that no-one else would have been in a position to access his phone in order to
intercept text messages without his knowledge or agreement. Against this backdrop, I cant
see how an unknown third party could have registered the device without Mr Ks knowledge.
The banks records show that the device was used on 14 August 2020 to set up a payment
that was not made. When I asked Mr K about this, he suggested that it could have been the
fraudster first trying to access his account. Its not surprising that Mr K could not recall
anything much about that specific day. Over two years had passed when I asked and
ultimately, the payment was abandoned so no money left his account at this time. But if an
unknown third party had been able to both link a device to Mr Ks profile and then obtain his
personalised online banking login details without him knowing, it seems unlikely they would
not try to benefit as much as they could as quickly as they could. Mr K changed his online
banking credentials on 26 August 2020 in response to an unconnected fraud, so even if an
unknown third party had found out his personalised online banking login information to be
able to log in on 14 August 2020, these credentials had been changed when the transactions
currently in dispute were made. As a result, it seems unlikely that an opportunistic third party
would have access to the details required to make these payments.
Ive looked carefully at the process that is required to initiate an Open Banking payment with
a third-party provider. We now know that the beneficiary of the funds that were sent as Open
Banking faster payments was a gaming company and that the funds were deposited into an
account in Mr Ks name that matched his details. Its unclear how this account came to be.
Mr K has explained that he's got no connection to it. I understand why Mr K is concerned
about this. But it is not my role to establish the wider circumstances around how this account
was set up. I am unable to determine how someone else could have got hold of Mr Ks
details or investigate who that person may be. My role cannot go any further than making a
determination on whether Santander is entitled to hold him liable for the transactions that
debited his Santander accounts.
The Open Banking faster payments were initiated within the gaming companys platform but
authorised in Santanders platform. To log in to authorise the payments required Mr Ks
personal/customer ID, along with random characters from his personalised password and
security number and recognition of a personalised image and phrase. Then, to approve
payments, a one-time passcode was sent as a text message to Mr Ks mobile phone
number. Ive thought about whether it would have been possible for these verification texts to
have gone to another device without ever being seen on Mr Ks phone. But theres no
suggestion that Mr K had enabled any text messaging forwarding to other devices.
Ive considered the possibility that someone known to Mr K was able to register a new
device to his profile, potentially find out both his old and new online banking credentials,
access his text messages either from his phone or by intercepting them and then go on to
initiate these payments to a gaming account in Mr Ks name and to another bank account.
But Mr K has been clear that his phone has always been in his control. Hes not shared his
online banking details with anyone else and hes not allowed anyone to make transactions
on his behalf at any point in the past. Against that backdrop, it is difficult to see how
someone else would have had the opportunity to steal this much of Mr Ks personalised
security information.
Ive looked carefully at the process required to make the faster payments that debited
account ending 7418. The bank has provided evidence to show the transfers were made by
someone logging in using Mr Ks credentials. For the same reasons that Ive alreadyoutlined, I cannot see how someone else would have been able to log into Mr Ks online
banking and make these payments. The information Santander was able to provide to me
about the receiving account did not provide any further insight into the wider circumstances.
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mr K. But from what I have seen so far, there is no
explanation for how someone else would have been able to add a new device to Mr Ks
profile, obtain his up to date security credentials to be able to log into his online banking and
also verify Open Banking transactions with one-time passcodes unless hed allowed them to
do so or been directly involved in making the payments. I realise that this is a very difficult
message to give, but it is what the available evidence currently leads me to conclude. This
means that Mr K is considered to have authorised the transactions in dispute and Santander
has not acted unfairly by holding him responsible for them.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander responded to say it had received the provisional decision and had nothing further 
to add. 
Mr K responded to say he was extremely disappointed with the proposed outcome. He made 
six key points, which I have summarised below:
Even though the investigation cannot prove anyone else had been able to make 
payments, that does not prove that he made or authorised them
Santander did not explain why it had returned almost £650 to him. He suggested that 
for the bank to return any money at all, it must be admitting it was liable for the 
money being taken
He would not have contacted the Police and Action Fraud if he was involved in 
making the transactions
He regularly receives phone calls from fraudsters pretending to be Santander and the 
callers know his account number and sort code, so someone has some of his 
banking details 
He did not make the fraudulent payments and Santander cannot prove that the 
payments were taken with his consent
He has no reason to commit this fraud. He holds a respected job and holds his 
mortgage with Santander, so there is no motive for him to commit fraud against a 
bank so intrinsically linked with his life
Mr K asked me to reconsider my view and said this is a case of bank and identity fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, which 
is set out above and forms part of this final decision. I have done so even after taking into 
account Mr Ks comments. Ill explain why. 
This is not a decision that I have reached lightly. Im aware that this money was Mr Ks 
savings and I can understand why he feels strongly about what has happened here. Hes 
maintained from the outset that he never authorised or agreed that anyone else could make 
the disputed payments. 
But it is not my role to find out who actually made these transactions. The key issue I have to 
determine is whether Mr K can be held responsible for them. Having looked carefully at all of the circumstances surrounding the disputed payments, I cant fairly say that Santander 
should bear the loss. 
Mr K has pointed out that some of his banking details must be in the hands of fraudsters 
because of the number of scam calls he receives. But to make these transactions required 
more than the knowledge of Mr Ks sort code and account number. 
It remains the case that I cannot see how anyone else could have registered the disputed 
device or known Mr Ks personalised security credentials to be able to log into his online 
banking, especially since the disputed transactions were made after hed changed those 
details. In addition, I still cannot see any plausible way for someone to have intercepted the 
one-time passcodes sent to Mr Ks registered mobile number and used to verify some of the 
payments in dispute.
Mr K has pointed out that Santander returned almost £650 to him and asked why the bank 
did not return more. I can see why Mr K thinks that returning any money at all must be linked 
to the decision of liability. But this amount is what remained of the disputed money that was 
sent from Mr Ks account ending 4718. I am unable to specifically comment on the account 
that received Mr Ks money as it belongs to a third party. I have investigated the wider 
circumstances around the recovery of these funds to see if they shed any more light on the 
issues at hand here, but they did not. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr K. But I am still not persuaded that it would be unfair for 
Santander to hold him responsible for the transactions. From the evidence I have, I can only 
conclude that Mr K made the transactions or gave someone else permission to make them.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman