DRN-2044716
The complaint
Mr W took out a mortgage in 1992 which Nationwide Building Society is now responsible for 
and he was sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. 
He says he was mis-sold this type of cover because he didnt need the cover and it was also 
implied that the PPI was something he needed to have.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr W its unlikely to be 
upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt that Mr W honestly and genuinely 
believes that the policy was mis-sold to him. 
Initially, Nationwides said the PPI was probably a compulsory policy linked to a fixed rate 
mortgage. Weve seen a few of these Nationwide cases from around the 1990s, where 
getting a discounted fixed rate deal depended on the consumer also opting for certain 
types of Nationwide products. Quite often, PPI was such a product. 
But we now know this probably wasnt the case here as Mr W wasnt quite borrowing over 
95% of the value of the property he was buying  the usual tipping point for compulsory 
PPI mortgage policies. Mr W thinks that being wrongly informed about this is significant as 
to whether Nationwide is being straight with him. 
However, these events were some 28 years ago now, and the mortgage and PPI were also 
redeemed many years ago too. So, I think its reasonable to expect some uncertainties 
about this sale and its no surprise, for example, that we no longer have the physical sale 
records left to look at. Businesses dont need to keep records indefinitely.
Im therefore going to make some reasonable assumptions in coming to a decision, based 
on both the evidence we have and my own knowledge of these types of cases. 
The first is that I know that most of these mortgage PPI sales did usually offer a yes / no 
option for consumers like Mr W. He himself has seen such a example where the mortgage 
application form clearly presents a choice about PPI and strongly recommends take up of 
the cover. By definition therefore, I think this description is fairly obvious that such a choice 
existed for Mr W and that the recommendation is just that; the policy isnt compulsory.
Put another way, I think theres much more evidence that he agreed to the PPI, than there 
is to say it was forced upon him. I accept he may not remember things that way now. 
The second allegation is that Mr W didnt need the cover, because he was well provided for 
elsewhere. I take his point, but theres no evidence to say this was an advised sale as 
defined under the specific rules we operate under. Such a sale would usually involve a full-
scale review of all the applicants finances. This accords with my experience of these 
Nationwide PPI sales from the time, which were mainly non-advised sales. This means it 
was for Mr W to decide for himself, based on him being given enough information to make 
an informed decision, whether he wanted the cover. In short, it was allowable that 
Nationwide recommended the cover, but it was his decision as to whether he agreed.
Having said that, I dont see suitability as a contentious issue here anyway. Thats because 
I think the policy was suitable for him in any event. 
For example, he appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. His mortgage was also a major 
commitment and secured against his home. So the consequences of him not being able to 
keep up payments could have been serious. I also note that in the event of a successful 
claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in addition to  
and indeed much longer than - any other means Mr W already had in place at the time. And 
in my experience, the 24-month term was relatively lengthy in comparison with other PPI 
policies, which often covered 12 months.
Obviously, I cant say after such a long time that Mr W was told everything he ought to have 
been told. But I note he would have been aware of the monthly premium costs, having been 
given a policy schedule and regular statements. Ive seen copies of these. This type of 
information included who and what was covered, and I think would also have been 
discussed in detail at the point of sale.
Overall, I therefore think theres solid information here that Mr W probably engaged in the 
discussions about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. I accept 
there have been some assumptions required due to the lack of hard evidence, but to 
uphold this complaint Id need to agree that the policy was forced on Mr W or that he wasnt 
given enough information to make an informed choice. 
Those elements simply arent present  I think he was given a choice and would have know 
quite a bit about what the policy was for. Im very sorry to have to disappoint him.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman