DRN-3198336
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy as she feels that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her with a credit 
account that wasnt affordable for her at that time.
What happened
Miss M applied for a credit account with Barclays in July 2013. Her application was 
approved, and Miss M was issued with a credit card account with a credit limit of £6,700.
In 2020, Miss M raised a complaint with Barclays on the basis that she felt the credit that 
shed been approved for in 2013 hadnt been affordable for her at that time. Barclays looked 
at Miss Ms complaint, but they felt that because Miss M had raised her complaint more than 
six years after the event being complained about that it wasnt a complaint that they could 
reasonably investigate.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Upon review, it was decided that Miss Ms complaint was one that this service could 
consider the merits of, and so the complaint was passed to one of our investigators to 
assess. However, the length of time that had elapsed since the account application meant 
that much of the information pertaining that application was no longer available, and 
because of this our investigator didnt feel that they could fairly or reasonably conclude that 
the credit provided to Miss M by Barclays in 2013 had been unaffordable for her at that time.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
It's important to note here that businesses such as Barclays are generally only required to 
maintain records of events for six years. And in this instance, while Barclays maintain that a 
creditworthiness assessment would have taken place and that Miss M would have passed 
that assessment in order to have been approved for the account, Barclays have confirmed 
that they no longer hold the information that they used to assess Miss Ms creditworthiness 
at that time  and given that the account application took place more than six years before 
the time that Miss M first raised her complaint with Barclays, this service wouldnt expect 
Barclays to have retained this information.
Miss M has kindly provided this service with a copy of her credit file, but unfortunately this 
also only retains information for a period of six years, and so Im unbale to gain a clear 
understanding from Miss Ms credit file of her financial position at the time of the account 
application.
This makes it very difficult for me to be able to fairly, reasonably, and impartially conclude 
that the credit account that Miss M was provided with by Barclays was unaffordable for her 
at the point of application. And given that this service is impartial, I would need to be able to 
evidence this point. And I dont feel that I can accept one partys word over the other party 
here, in the absence of such information, because if I were to accept the word of one party 
over another without corroborating evidence then I wouldnt be acting impartially.
It also must be noted that the limited information which I do have available to me, including 
Miss Ms declaration that she was earning in the region of £37,000 per annum at the time of 
the account application, doesnt include anything that would give me reasonable cause to 
consider that the provision of a credit account with a £6,700 credit limit would necessarily be 
unaffordable for Miss M at that time.
All of which means that there simply isnt enough information that survives from the point of 
application in 2013 to enable me to make a fair assessment of whether the credit provided to 
Miss M by Barclays was or wasnt affordable for her at that time. This means that Im 
consequently unable to fairly, reasonably, and impartially conclude that the credit account 
wasnt affordable for Miss M, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.  
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting here, but I trust that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman