DRN-4137498
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the delay in 
receiving a courtesy vehicle.
What happened
Mrs S held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, Mrs S car was 
damaged by a tile that had fallen from her house roof. So, on 23 October 2022, Mrs S 
contacted AIC to make a claim on her policy.
AIC accepted Mrs S claim and they instructed their approved repairer to manage the 
necessary repairs. As this approved repairer was acting as an agent of AIC, I have referred 
to any actions they took as if they were taken by AIC, as AIC remain ultimately responsible.
Mrs S car arrived at the garage for repair on 3 November. But Mrs S didnt receive a 
courtesy car until 8 November, some five days later. Mrs S was unhappy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs S explained during this period of time, she was required to travel to a hospital 
appointment. As she hadnt been provided with a courtesy car, Mrs S explained shed had to 
ask a relative to take her, who had incurred petrol costs as well as taking time off work. So, 
Mrs S wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience she was caused by this 
delay. And she wanted AIC to consider reimbursing her relatives fuel costs and loss of 
earnings.
AIC responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there had been a delay in 
providing Mrs S with a courtesy car. And they acknowledged the inconvenience this 
wouldve caused, as well as the fuel costs that Mrs S was able to evidence for the hospital 
appointment. So, AIC paid Mrs S a total of £125 to recognise the upset and inconvenience 
Mrs S was caused, which included a £40 reimbursement of the fuel costs. Mrs S remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the delay in 
providing Mrs S with a courtesy car wasnt in dispute, as AIC had accepted this. But our 
investigator thought the total compensatory amount was a fair one, calculated in line with our 
services approach. They explained they were unable to consider Mrs S relatives loss of 
earnings, and they thought the £35 portion of the settlement directly addressing the upset 
and inconvenience was reasonable. So, our investigator didnt think AIC needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She was unhappy AIC had only paid £10 per day for five days from 3 
November, when she felt she had been without a driveable car since the claim was reported 
on 23 October. So, she thought she shouldve been paid £10 per day for the entire claim 
period up until a courtesy car was received. And she didnt think it was fair to expect her to 
arrange a taxi, rather than use a relative, considering her personal situation and her 
husbands health. So, Mrs S maintained her belief the compensation offer should be 
increased.
Our investigator responded to Mrs S comments, explaining Mrs S insurance policy only 
entitled Mrs S to a courtesy car for the period of time her vehicle was being repaired. So, our 
investigator didnt think AIC were obliged to pay Mrs S £10 per day during the time it took 
AIC to arrange for Mrs S car to be collected and taken to the garage. While our investigator 
acknowledged this took over a week, our investigator didnt think there were avoidable 
delays during this time that showed AIC to have acted unfairly. Mrs S continued to disagree 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs S. Its not in dispute that 
Mrs S was without a car for an extended period of time. And I note its accepted by AIC that 
a portion of this period was caused due to avoidable delays they were responsible for. Ive 
taken all of Mrs S comments on board and Ive no doubt it wouldve been an extremely 
inconvenient and upsetting time for Mrs S, especially when her husbands health is 
considered.
But for me to say AIC should pay Mrs S more than the £125 they have already, I need to be 
satisfied this compensatory amount fails to fairly recognise the impact Mrs S has suffered 
directly. Or, that the compensatory amount hasnt been calculated considering an avoidable 
error AIC were responsible for. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its important to first understand the entitlement Mrs S had to a courtesy car, under the 
terms of the policy she held. Ive seen these terms, which explain that Mrs S was only 
entitled to a courtesy vehicle whilst your vehicle is being repaired. So, I dont think AIC had 
an obligation to provide Mrs S with a courtesy vehicle when they were arranging for a repair 
to be completed.
Even so, I would expect AIC to ensure Mrs S car was booked in for a repair within a 
reasonable amount of time, considering the car itself wasnt driveable. AIC have confirmed 
they aim to process a customers claim to repair commencement within 7 working days. In 
this situation, it took 8 working days for Mrs S car to arrive on site. And it is at that point I 
wouldve expected a courtesy car to be provided.
So, while I recognise it took AIC slightly longer than they aimed for to arrange Mrs S repair, I 
dont think there were significant avoidable delays that AIC should compensate Mrs S for 
here.
Its then not in dispute that from 3 November, Mrs S shouldve received a courtesy car. And 
she didnt receive one until 8 November. So, Mrs S was unfairly without a courtesy car when 
she was entitled to one for 5 days. To acknowledge this, AIC have paid Mrs S £10 a day, 
totalling £50. And this offer falls within the standard industry guidelines we work within and 
expect. So, I think AIC have acted fairly here.
I can see AIC also agreed to cover the fuel costs Mrs S relative incurred when taking her to 
the hospital. While we dont usually consider financial losses for parties other than the 
policyholder themselves, I think this is a fair offer to make on this occasion. I say this because I wouldve expected AIC to cover any losses Mrs S wouldve incurred directly when 
making this journey, for example if she chose to use a taxi service instead. So, I think its 
reasonable for the fuel costs to be reimbursed on this occasion.
I appreciate Mrs S also believes their relatives loss of earnings should be considered. But 
loss of earnings isnt something our service is able to consider, as we would consider the 
relatives decision to take time off work a choice they made themselves. And even so, Mrs S 
is the policy holder and so, the eligible complainant in this scenario. This means any 
compensation we direct, or award is intended to address the financial losses incurred, and 
impact suffered, by Mrs S directly. And I dont think Mrs S had incurred any loss of earning, 
or was ever likely to do so, because of the service AIC provided.
Finally, AIC have paid Mrs S a further £35, taking the total compensatory amount to £125 
overall. This £35 is intended to compensate Mrs S for the emotional impact shes been 
caused by the complaint and being without a courtesy car when she was entitled to one. And 
I think this offer paid by AIC is a fair one, that falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it 
not already been made.
I think it fairly and reasonably acknowledges the frustration and upset Mrs S wouldve felt 
being without a courtesy car, when she was aware she was entitled to one under the terms 
of her policy. But I think it also considers the fact AIC had already offered an amount to 
recognise the inconvenience caused by the loss of use over the five-day period Ive 
discussed above. And, that AIC have acted in good faith when reimbursing Mrs S her 
relatives fuel costs when this wasnt a direct financial loss to Mrs S herself. So, I dont think 
AIC need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
providing Mrs S with closure over the complaint and reassures her that AICs compensatory 
offer falls within our services guidelines and expectations.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman