DRN-3758251
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that Acromas Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Acromas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the 
intermediary and others insofar as I hold Acromas responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from early July 2021, Mr A insured Mrs As large sports utility vehicle. He was 
the policyholder. She was the main driver. The cost for the year was about £380.00.
The policy was branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Acromas was the 
insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
On 24 October 2021, Mr and Mrs A were in the SUV in the car park of a caf.
Later, a third party or their insurer made a claim that  on that occasions - Mrs A had 
damaged the third partys car. Mr and Mrs A denied involvement in any such incident.
In April 2022, Mr and Mrs A sold the SUV and replaced it with another SUV.
In about May 2022, Acromas settled the third partys claim and recorded a fault claim against 
Mrs A.
In June 2022, the intermediary sent Mr A a renewal letter quoting a premium of over 
£4,000.00.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Acromas that it had unfairly settled the claim, caused the 
increased premium, failed to communicate and quoted the wrong date for the incident.
By a final response letter dated mid-August 2022, Acromas turned down the complaint about 
the claim. It upheld the complaint about communication and the wrong date. It said it was 
sending Mr A a cheque for £150.00 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
there was conclusive evidence that the driver of Mr As car was at fault.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr A says, in summary, that:
He spent 30 years in the motor trade.
There was no collision between his SUV and the third partys car.
There was no damage to his SUV. Acromas never inspected it.
The third party didnt contact the police. 
It was in mid-April 2022 when he and his wife part-exchanged the SUV at a dealer. 
The dealer has sent an email confirming that the SUV was in immaculate condition of 
no prior previous repair or paintwork.
It has been a most upsetting situation and is affecting his wifes health. Mr A also has 
health problems. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies allow the insurer to decide how best to deal with a claim from 
a third party. The Acromas policy terms included such a term. So  on  a question of how to 
deal with a third partys claim - Acromas view would prevail over Mr As.
Nevertheless I will consider whether Acromas acted fairly.
I wouldnt expect the third party to contact the police to report damage to their car.
I see that on 18 November 2021, the third partys insurer wrote a claim notification to 
Acromas. And the next day, Acromas wrote to Mr A asking him to get in touch.
In late April 2022, Acromas asked Mr A if it could inspect his vehicle. but by then he had sold 
it.
The Acromas letter of late May 2022 quoted an incorrect date for the incident. I dont 
condone that, but I dont think the mistake had much impact on Mr and Mrs A.
The letter including the following:
we have now received some CCTV footage of the incident and it clearly shows
your vehicle reversing, contact being made with the parked vehicle and the parked 
vehicle moving following impact.
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that there was no damage to his SUV. But I dont 
accept that the absence of damage to his vehicle would show that it hadnt been in contact 
with the third partys car.
Ive looked at that CCTV footage. I accept that the movement of Mr and Mrs As vehicle 
shows no sign that they were aware of contact with the third partys car.
However, I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that Acromas thought that the CCTV showed 
contact with the third partys car (on its offside).
Acromas had received details of damage to the third partys car on its offside.
I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that Acromas decided that  rather than incur the cost 
and risk of a court case  it would settle the third partys claim.So  whist I accept that the claim is likely to have an ongoing effect on Mr and Mrs As 
premiums  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Acromas to change the way it has 
recoded the claim.
From what Ive seen, Acromas didnt always communicate with Mr and Mrs A as well as it 
shouldve done. In particular it didnt contact Mr A when he asked it to. The impact of that on 
Mr and Mrs A was that they felt ignored and they had to chase for information. 
But Im satisfied that Acromas payment of £150.00 was fair compensation. I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Acromas to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman