DRN-2826043
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mrs M payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage which 
started in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
I dont have any evidence that the PPI was presented as compulsory, and Mrs M isnt really 
saying this. Instead she is saying the way it was recommended to her was unfair. She says 
she was young at the time and, when the bank adviser advised her to take PPI, she followed 
the advice. She says this is in the same way she would have followed advice given to her by 
a GP on medical matters. She feels she was hoodwinked, and her naivety taken advantage 
of.
The problem I have is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone 
in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of 
an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the 
policy is actually something worth having and it is clear the customer has a choice. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence 
of this. 
Also, I dont think a recommendation was in itself an unsuitable one, based on what Ive 
seen of Mrs Ms situation at the time. I say this because:
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. PPI was 
often of questionable value for many types of borrowing, but this wasnt normally the 
case with mortgages.
Its likely Mrs M was eligible for the policy, and so would have been able to make a 
claim if she needed to.
Mrs Ms representatives have told us she would have been entitled only to statutory 
sick pay. And the PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs M received 
this, and potentially for much longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And Mrs M has said she didnt have significant other 
means to fall back on. So the PPI could have put Mrs M in a more secure position, if 
shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs M would 
have been affected by any of these,
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mrs M to decide whether she wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mrs M took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely 
this would have made the PPI seem less useful. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman