DRN-3710228
The complaint
Mr K complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited (Endsleigh) mis-sold him a 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K has a flat that he lets out to tenants. Mr K wanted insurance cover for his kitchen, 
bathroom and flooring, so he contacted Endsleigh (who acted as a broker), in 2016 and took 
out an insurance policy. The policy was renewed each year. 
In 2021 Mr K contacted the insurer of the policy to make a claim. He was told by the insurer 
that as he only had contents insurance, this wouldnt cover the kitchen, bathroom or flooring. 
Mr K has since had his claim considered by his separate building insurer.
Mr K complained to Endsleigh that they had mis-sold him an insurance policy which, 
because it was a contents policy, didnt cover his kitchen, bathroom of flooring. Endsleigh 
didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said the call from the sale in 2016 was no longer 
available, but Mr K had been provided documents after the sale (and at each renewal since 
purchase), which outlined the cover he had.
As Mr K was unhappy with Endsleighs position, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He noted the call 
recording was unavailable, so he took into consideration the remaining evidence available. 
The investigator said the policy terms provided after the sale and at renewal outlined the 
policy cover, and the policy was sold on a non-advised basis  so it was Mr Ks responsibility 
to check the cover met his needs.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K purchased his insurance cover in 2016. He says that he called Endsleigh and 
explained he wanted a policy to cover his kitchen, bathroom and flooring. And he says 
Endsleigh told him the contents policy he purchased would be most suitable for him.
Unfortunately, the call recording isnt available. So, Im unable to conclude exactly what was 
discussed during the sale. Therefore, when reaching my decision, Ive needed to rely on the 
remaining evidence available, along with considering what I think was most likely to have 
happened.
Endsleigh has confirmed it only offers policies on a non-advised basis. That means they 
provide information for a policyholder to decide whether the policy is suitable for their needs, 
rather than advising which policy is most suitable. So, on balance, during the call its more 
likely Endsleigh wouldve provided information in order for Mr K to decide the suitability, 
rather than deciding for him which policy would be best for his needs.
The policy documents provided after the sale outlined:
Any information we provide you with does not constitute advice or a personal 
recommendation and you agree to make your own choice about how to proceed. We 
may ask questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will provide 
information on.
And this was also in renewal documents in later years too.
Mr K has argued there couldve been a rogue or untrained employee in 2016 who provided 
advice during the sale, rather than selling the policy on a non-advised basis. Whilst I 
recognise this could be possible, there is no evidence to support this is what most likely 
occurred. In any event, the documents outlined Endsleighs responsibilities, and that Mr K 
needed to decide himself whether the cover was suitable for his needs as they hadnt 
advised or recommended the policy.
As I mentioned, after the sale, and at renewal each year, documents were available to Mr K. 
These outlined that he held a contents insurance policy. They also explained only limited 
details had been provided, and Mr K needed to check his full policy terms. After the sale in 
2016 the documents explained:
This summary contains the key features of your landlords insurance policy. It does 
not contain the full terms and conditions, which can be found in your landlords 
insurance policy. If you wish to view a copy of your policy you can log on to 
https://client.endsleigh.co.uk/login.aspx and register. It is particularly important that 
you read the sections on key exclusions and key limitations and any special terms 
and conditions applicable to your whole policy.
And similar in later years including:
You may compare your renewal premium with other insurance products. As well as 
checking that your cover, key benefits and exclusions still meet your needs, its 
important to review your details are accurate. You can check your existing 
documents, including your Insurance Product Information Documents, in your online 
account at https://client.endsleigh.co.uk/.
And the documents outlined that Mr K had contents cover. They also gave examples of what 
would be contents, and this didnt include kitchens, bathrooms or flooring specifically. I dont 
think the documents were misleading.Mr K has said he never reads his documents or the policy terms and files them away on 
receipt. However, Im satisfied Endsleigh has provided sufficient information after the sale 
(and at renewal over the following six years) to outline the cover Mr K held and to enable him 
to consider if it was suitable. Im unable to hold Endsleigh responsible if Mr K decided not to 
read any of the documents and so didnt know what his policy covered.
Mr K has also raised several other points, including that he had £25,000 cover when he only 
had approximately £2,000 of contents, he held the policy for six years without it covering 
what he thought it did, he already had buildings cover and the policy wording.
But as I say, the call recording from the sale is no longer available, so Ive taken into account 
the remaining information when reaching my decision. The documents outlined the full cover 
Mr K had, including policy limits, and it was his responsibility to ensure the policy met his 
needs. But as Ive also mentioned, Mr K has also said he never reads his documents, so he 
may not have seen what cover he had, but I cant hold Endsleigh responsible for that.
With the above in mind, Im unable to conclude Mr K has been mis-sold his insurance policy 
by Endsleigh, or that they didnt provide enough information to Mr K to enable him to see 
what policy he had, and whether it was suitable, after the sale and at each renewal.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman