DRN-3338678
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank Plc have managed his packaged bank account. 
What happened 
In June 2021 Lloyds told Mr J the fee waiver on his account was due to end. So, he would 
need to downgrade his account or start paying a £21 monthly fee from October 2021. Mr J 
didnt think this was fair, so he complained. 
During a telephone conversation, Mr J also said he was unhappy Lloyds had included 
information in his statements about steps he could take to try and prevent his online 
purchases being declined. He said he was concerned Lloyds might be breaking the law and 
they were trying to force him to use the mobile banking app. The adviser explained Lloyds 
have security procedures in place to prevent fraud. However, she also said he didnt need to 
use the app if he didnt want to. Part way through the conversation, the adviser unfortunately 
stopped responding. Mr J has said he thinks the adviser did this deliberately as they didnt 
want to help.
A few minutes later, Mr J received a call from a complaint handler. She didnt uphold his 
complaint about the account fee and said she would send him a final response letter. At the 
start of this letter, she referred to their conversation. However, Mr J disputes ever speaking 
to her. Hes also questioned the date of the final response because of the amount of time it 
took to arrive. 
Mr J then referred his complaint to our service. When doing so, he said he also wanted us to 
investigate the way Lloyds had handled some recent online transactions. Lloyds didnt 
consent to our service considering this issue as part of the current complaint. So, our 
investigator said Mr J would need to complain to Lloyds about it separately in the first 
instance. 
Our investigator then considered the remaining issues. She said Lloyds had acted 
reasonably by removing the account fee waiver and didnt think theyd made any errors in 
relation to Mr Js statements. She also didnt think Lloyds adviser purposely stopped 
listening to him during their conversation and suggested there may have been a technical 
problem instead. Having listened to the call recording, she was also satisfied Mr J had 
discussed his complaint with the same person that had written the final response. Finally, 
she said Lloyds werent responsible for any postal delays.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
He contacted the police in relation to his concerns, but they referred him back to 
Lloyds. Hes being cheated and this matter is very serious.
 He strongly disagrees the adviser experienced technical difficulties during their 
conversation or that she was no longer able to hear him. Hes convinced they just 
decided to stop listening.
He didnt speak to the complaint handler who issued the final response. So, he can 
only conclude Lloyds are lying and have provided our service with recordings that 
are corrupt and false.
He also listed a few concerns he has with the banking industry and some other financial 
institutions.                                                                                      
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions for these reasons:
Mr J appears to have accepted our investigators opinion in relation to the £21 
monthly account fee. But for the sake of completeness, Im satisfied Lloyds havent 
treated him unfairly in relation to this issue. The terms and conditions of the account 
allow for changes of this nature, and Mr J was given a reasonable amount of notice 
so he could consider his options. Under the circumstances, this is all Id reasonably 
expect Lloyds to do. 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers 
accounts safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. They have developed 
sophisticated systems and procedures to help them do so. Sometimes they block 
and decline legitimate payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause 
distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean theyve 
acted incorrectly. Their terms and conditions also allow for security procedures of this 
nature to take place. So, I dont agree with Mr J that Lloyds are breaking the law or 
treating him unfairly by warning him about the potential for his payments to be 
declined. As mentioned above, Mr J will need to complain to Lloyds directly, if he 
remains concerned about any specific transactions.
I also dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by including wording in Mr Js 
statements about the steps he could take to try and help. These include making sure 
Lloyds have a working phone number for him or downloading the mobile banking 
app. It isnt my place to interfere with Lloyds internal processes, but its clear they are 
requesting the above to help them contact Mr J quickly. So, I dont think they are 
acting unreasonably. I also dont think this guidance means Mr J is being forced to 
download the mobile app. Lloyds have suggested he consider this option, but from 
what Ive seen hes under no obligation to do so. 
Ive listened to the telephone conversation Mr J had with Lloyds when he discussed 
the above issue. I dont think the adviser deliberately stopped listening to Mr J or tried 
to cause him upset. Based on what Ive heard, I think its likely the conversation was 
unfortunately subject to a technical issue. Im also satisfied Mr J had a conversation 
with the same person who sent him the final response, based on the name stated at 
the start of the call. I think any confusion is likely to be due to the complaint handlers 
strong regional accent. Ive also found no grounds for concluding the call recordings 
are false or corrupt. And, I dont think its likely the final response was dated 
incorrectly. 
Mr J has raised a few concerns about the banking industry in general. I appreciate 
hes unhappy and thinks change should take place. However, our service isnt a regulator and I've no power to ask Lloyds or any bank to change the way they 
operate. In reaching this decision, Ive only considered the way Lloyds have treated 
Mr J in relation to his specific account and having done so, Im satisfied they havent 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman