DRN-4337008
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Handelsbanken plc trading as 
Handelsbanken when he enquired about opening an account.
What happened
Mr A contacted Handelsbanken with a view to opening an account. He had some 
discussions with its staff about the process, but no account was opened. Mr A says that 
Handelsbankens approach towards him during these interactions wasnt transparent, open 
or fair. He says it gave him contradictory information which made him feel he couldnt trust it 
with his banking affairs. He says its business model isnt clear and isnt common within the 
banking industry in the UK. He raised a complaint with Handelsbanken but says this wasnt 
logged until he contacted its Chief Executive Officer.
Handelsbanken responded to the complaint soon afterwards. It didnt uphold it. 
Handelsbanken said it had given Mr A relevant information about opening an account and 
that its staff had acted in a professional manner. But Mr A remained unhappy about the 
situation and came to this service seeking compensation.
Our Investigator didnt think Handelsbanken had done anything wrong. But Mr A didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I realise Mr A feels strongly about this complaint and has been dealing with difficult personal 
circumstances, so Im sorry to disappoint him. But Im not going to ask Handelsbanken to do 
anything here. Ill explain why.
Handelsbanken has extensive obligations under the Proceeds of Crime Act, Money 
Laundering Regulations and related legislation. This legislation, together with other 
regulations and guidance, includes rules about customer identification and due diligence. 
Handelsbanken is required to have systems and processes in place to comply with these 
rules. Its not the role of this service to tell businesses how they should meet these 
obligations and they have some discretion as to how they apply the regulatory requirements. 
So, its for Handelsbanken to decide exactly what policies and procedures it puts in place. 
However, I think its approach was reasonable here and it made its requirements clear to Mr 
A. So, I dont think it acted unfairly in this respect.
Mr A says that Handelsbankens business model isnt clear and its approach seems to be 
different from other banks. Its not the role of this service to tell businesses how to operate. 
Our role is to resolve complaints and to decide them by reference to what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr A says he felt he couldnt trust Handelsbanken with 
his banking affairs. That is of course his decision. But I havent seen anything untoward in 
Handelsbankens approach and I dont think it did anything wrong here. I havent seen 
anything which makes me think Handelsbanken treated Mr A unfairly.
I understand that Mr A is unhappy about an account management fee which Handelsbanken 
said it would charge. I dont think Handelsbanken acted unreasonably in this respect and Im 
satisfied it made Mr A aware of this charge before he opened an account (which he never 
did).
Finally, Mr A says that the branch staff didnt log his complaint. He says that Handelsbanken 
only responded after he contacted the Chief Executive Officer. Im satisfied that the branch 
staff acknowledged Mr As request to log a complaint. They told him they would need his 
postal address in order to do this. I think that was reasonable. I cant see that Mr A provided 
this. But, around two days later, he sent an email to the Chief Executive Officer. That was 
acknowledged by email the next day and a complaint was logged. Handelsbanken sent its 
final response to Mr A, also by email, within a fortnight. I think that was a fair approach.
Overall, I dont think Handelsbanken acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So Im not going to 
ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman