DRN-1881220
 
The complaint
Ms H, represented by a claims management company, complains that she was mis-sold a 
capital guaranteed bond by National Westminster Bank Plc. 
What happened
Ms H received advice from NatWest in 2004. At the time she was aged 58, single with no 
dependents and had just returned from an extended period working abroad. She was in full-
time employment, earning £16,000 per year and hoping to retire at age 70. She was living in 
rented accommodation. 
She had savings of £13,000 - £3,000 of which she wanted to retain for emergencies. Of the 
remaining £10,000 the adviser recommended she invest £8,500 in a Guaranteed Capital 
Bond (GCB) for a 5 year term. The potential return on the bond was based upon any rise 
in the value of the FTSE 100 Index over the term of the bond - but if there was no rise, or a 
drop in value, Mrs H was guaranteed to receive back her invested capital. She maintained 
the investment for the full term and received back just over £8,700. 
A complaint about the suitability of the advice to invest was made to NatWest by Ms H's 
CMC in 2019. NatWest concluded that the product itself had been suitable for her needs and 
circumstances and in keeping with her being a first-time investor. But NatWest felt that Mrs 
H had been advised to commit too much of her money to the investment, so it offered 
compensation based on her only having committed 40% of her money - £5,200 as opposed 
to £8,500.
Mrs H's CMC didn't accept this. Its view was that Mrs H shouldn't have been advised to 
invest at all, given the rates available from fixed-rate bonds at that the time and the 
strong possibility the GCB would make little or no return.
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator concluded it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief:
He wasn't convinced Ms H had wanted to take any risk with her money.
There was no evidence she had any investment experience or understood the 
concept of risk versus reward.
She wasn't in a position to afford the risk of getting no return on her money.
She had a 12-year period before retirement and the GCB would take her nearly 
halfway through that while possibly making no return. 
There was no evidence of discussions of the alternative of fixed rate bonds.
Ultimately, she was not in a position to invest.
 
NatWest didn't agree. It said, in brief:Ms H had maintained the investment for the full term and not complained when she 
received back her money plus a small return, suggesting she'd understood how the 
product would work and what it might return. 
She could've rejected the advice if she'd wanted a guaranteed investment. 
The investment was affordable as she had no dependents and didn't want to put any 
money towards retirement provision. 
Cash deposits and investment ISAs were discussed but Ms H had already used up 
her ISA allowance for the year.
The alternative of fixed rate bonds would've been subject to tax, making them less 
competitive with the GCB. 
If the FTSE had performed very well she could've missed out if she'd been overly 
cautious. 
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion. So, NatWest provided some final 
comments, in brief:
Ms H had 12 years to go until retirement and had no dependents or liabilities. 
She understood she might only get back what she'd invested - the GCB's capital 
guarantee was referred to six times in the suitability letter.
The purpose of Ms H's approach to NatWest was to invest, but the adviser also 
highlighted her lack of retirement provision and prudently recommended a product 
with a capital guarantee. 
Her objective was to do better than currents accounts. 
It was unclear whether she had undisclosed assets.
Ms H was an inexperienced investor but sufficiently sophisticated to understand the 
risks, having made her own decision to approach NatWest and to accept or reject the 
advice offered to her.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The sort of product recommended to Ms H does have its place in introducing novice 
investors to the stock market, primarily because of the guarantee that they won't lose any of 
their original capital, providing the investment is maintained for its full term. But, as with all 
investments, it has to be suitable for the consumer and consistent with their needs and 
circumstances. 
Looking at Ms H's circumstances, she doesn't appear to have been in a particularly strong 
financial position. The £10,000 available for investment (having discounted her desired 
emergency fund) was all that she had. I note NatWest's comment that she may have held 
undisclosed assets, but I've seen no evidence of this and there's nothing to suggest the 
advice was given in the context of her having other monies or assets available.
Natwest has also made reference to her not having expensive liabilities, 'like a mortgage'. 
But I don't think this suggests she had greater flexibility or resilience with her finances. 
In fact, quite the opposite, she owned no property and was renting - itself a liability and an 
indication of a potentially precarious financial position. I accept that she had 12 years to go 
before her intended retirement age of 70. But it's not clear why she had chosen this age to retire and, again, it doesn't suggest a particularly strong financial position - especially as it 
was noted she was without any retirement provision at the time of the advice.
Against this background, it seems difficult to conclude that it was suitable to recommend that 
Ms H take the risk of getting no return on a large proportion of her money (even taking into 
account NatWest's suggested reduction). She would've been around age 64 when the bond 
matured. Even if she'd been able to carry on working to age 70, a failure of the bond to 
provide a meaningful return - which was a very clear possibility - would've left her in an event 
more precarious position financially with only a few years to go before retirement. 
I accept that Ms H appears to have accepted the description of her attitude to risk as a 
'Category 2', indicating she was prepared to accept the risk of possibly losing some money. 
But this categorisation included the statement "A product or fund that aims to offer a 
minimum amount at a set point in time", which I expect would've been quite appealing to her 
but wouldn't necessarily have alerted her to what she was potentially missing out on by 
accepting the recommendation. 
I note NatWest's point about the recommendation letter not being a 'reasons why not' letter, 
and that there does appear to have been discussion of alternatives. But the documentation 
gives me no great confidence that Ms H was fully informed about alternatives with 
guaranteed returns, which at the time would've given her up to around 4% annually, net of 
tax. And I think it's reasonable to expect this to have happened in Ms H's case 
because she'd never invested before and wasn't in a strong financial position. 
NatWest appears to suggest that because Ms H approached the business seeking advice 
(assuming that she did make the approach, rather than vice versa) the responsibility for 
assessing the suitability of the advice in some way shifted to her away from the adviser - that 
she was expected to recognise that he had acted incorrectly (which it is accepted that he 
did) and opt for a more suitable option herself. I don't think this is fair. 
Clearly Ms H would've wanted to her money to make better returns than those available on 
deposit, as the suitability letter suggested. But I don't think the method recommended to her 
for trying to achieve this was a suitable one. Despite the repeated references to the capital 
guarantee made in the suitability letter, I'm not persuaded that Ms H would've fully 
appreciated the potential downsides associated with this - making no return on her money 
for a period of over five years, which took her much closer to retirement. In short, I don't 
think the GCB was a suitable recommendation for Ms H. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put
Ms H as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Ms H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Ms H's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should NatWest do?
To compensate Ms H fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of Ms H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
         NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Guaranteed 
Capital Bondmaturedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value            
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Ms H wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Ms H's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Ms H would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mrs H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman