DRN-3455574
The complaint
Mr J complains that IG Markets Limited (IGML) failed to pay him for lapsed rights on a rights 
issue as it should have done.
What happened
Mr J had a Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading account with IGML and in July 2019 it 
emailed him to notify him of a rights issue by Synthomer PLC, a company that Mr J had 
opened a long position in. The options set out in the email were to take up the rights, do 
nothing (the default position) or trade out of the rights. Mr J did nothing and the email 
explained this would mean the rights would lapse with no profit.
He complained to IGML when he didnt receive anything. It didnt uphold the complaint. It 
explained that the rights related to a leveraged CFD account and as such when you buy 
shares you dont own the underlying asset so will not benefit the same as with a share 
dealing account. It pointed to the options that Mr J was informed he had as to the rights 
issue which made it clear that if he did nothing the rights would lapse with no profit  this 
being the default option.
However, IGML did offer to pay Mr J the £340 he had been expecting as a gesture of 
goodwill and on condition that he confirmed that closed the matter and that future CFD 
positions held on shares will not result in lapsed rights payments. Mr J was unwilling to 
accept that he wouldnt be entitled to lapsed rights payments in the future so didnt accept 
the offer.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think IGML had done anything 
wrong. The matter was then referred to me and I issued a provisional decision upholding the 
complaint the findings from which are set out below.
In July 2019 Synthomer offered its existing shareholders the opportunity of purchasing 
additional shares in the company  a rights issue. Shareholders were provided with a 
provisional allotment of the new shares and the opportunity of taking these up within the 
timescale set out. For those shareholders who decided not to take up the entitlement to the 
new shares the provisional allotment was lapsed.
That didnt mean these shareholders werent entitled to any benefit from those lapsed rights. 
Those shares not taken up then had to be sold and shareholders with lapsed rights were 
entitled to any amount over the issue price and expenses  as made clear in the rights issue 
prospectus Synthomer provided.
To reflect the rights issue for Mr Js long position in Synthomer, IGML credited his account 
with 625 nil paid rights shares. Mr J was sent an email regarding the rights issue which gave 
him the options of; taking these up; trading them; or doing nothing  in which case the rights 
would lapse with no profit. He chose to do nothing in the belief that he would still get the 
value of the shares credited to his CFD account less the issue price and expenses, as he did 
for actual shares he held in Synthomer, with another business.
Whilst Mr J was not trading shares by way of his long position in Synthomer, his holding 
arising from his position should behave broadly in the same way as if he did hold shares in 
the company  which is why IGML credited his account with the 625 nil paid rights shares he 
would have been entitled to from the rights issue if he had been trading shares.
However, whilst Mr Js position should behave broadly in line with the actual market, I must 
consider whether it was reasonable for him to have expected IGML to replicate exactly what 
happened in the actual market regarding the rights issue.
The email informing him of the rights issue did state that if he did nothing the rights would 
lapse with no profit. Arguably this should have made him aware that he would get nothing if 
the rights were lapsed.
However, Mr J has pointed to a previous occasion in 2015 when he received the value of the 
lapsed rights relating to a position he held. He said that IGML emailed him at the time and 
stated:
If there are lapsed rights proceeds paid then this will be paid accordingly, if not then the 
position will be closed at a level of 0.
I acknowledge that the wording Mr J has referred to is different to the email about the 
Synthomer rights issue which referred to no profit on lapsed rights. However, he has 
referred to receiving lapsed rights benefits on two further occasions, the first in 2018  so 
before the rights issue the subject of this complaint - and the second afterwards, in 2020.
In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr J to have thought that IGML 
would pay the value of lapsed rights based on what it had done previously, despite the 
reference to no profit in the email.
And in any event, I think it is reasonable to expect some consistency in the approach taken 
by IGML on a rights issue. If it normally pays out the lapsed value on a rights issue, I think it 
is reasonable to expect it to have done so on this occasion, regardless of the wording of the 
email.
Mr J has also pointed out that as his CFD account was a Direct Market Access account, 
when he placed the trade in Synthomer it hedged the risk by taking a parallel position in the 
underlying market so it hedged his Synthomer CFD rights position and would have received 
the lapsed rights of those shares as a result of him deciding to do nothing. He makes the 
point that it would not be fair or reasonable for it to deprive him of the benefit in the 
circumstances. I agree with him that it would be reasonable for IGML to pay him the benefit 
from the lapsed rights in the circumstances.
Although I am upholding this complaint in any event for the reasons I have set out above, I 
have also considered the relevant terms of the Customer Agreement between Mr J and 
IGML.
Clause 24 of the Customer Agreement includes the following:
(1) If any instrument becomes subject to a possible adjustment as the result of any of the 
events set out in Term 24(2) below (a Corporate Event) or is otherwise the subject of a 
Corporate Event, we will determine the appropriate adjustment, if any, to be made to the size 
and/or value and/or number of the related transaction(s) (and/or to the level of any Order) to 
account for the diluting or concentrating effect necessary to preserve the economic 
equivalent of the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to the Transaction 
immediately prior to the Corporate Event and/or replicate the Corporate Event on someone with an interest in the relevant underlying Instrument, which may include the opening of a 
new Transaction or the closing of the existing Transaction. Any action taken by us will be 
effective from the date determined by us and may, for the avoidance of doubt, be 
retrospective.
Clause 24(2) sets out the various events that constitute a Corporate Event which includes 
the rights issue that is the subject of this complaint.
Clause 24(3) then states:
(3) Any adjustment to the size and/or value and/or number of any Transaction(s) (and/or to 
the level of any Order) and/or the opening or closing of any Transaction(s) will be 
determined reasonably and will be conclusive and binding on you. If you have a Buy (i.e.: a 
long Transaction) that is affected by a Corporate Event, we will, should you give us notice of 
the same, in the form and with any period indicated by us, give consideration to your views 
about the action or adjustment to be made as a result of the Corporate Event. If you hold a 
Sell (i.e.: a short Transaction) then we will take whatever action is decided by us, acting 
reasonably. We will inform you of any adjustment or amendment under this Term as soon as 
reasonably practicable.
Mr J makes reference to Clause 24(1) referring to replicating the Corporate Event on 
someone with an interest in the relevant underlying instrument and suggested that by not 
adjusting his position in accordance with the underlying instrument IGML is in breach of this.
I think the clause is unclear and I may not have properly understood it, but it seems to me 
that the reference to replicating the corporate event does suggest that is what IGML would 
do. The brochure for the rights issue made clear what would happen with lapsed rights as 
part of the corporate event and IGML should have replicated this.
In the circumstances of this complaint I think it is fair and reasonable that IGML pay Mr J the 
value of the lapsed rights.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information they wanted me to consider. Mr J responded and said that he wasnt 
claiming £340 but £390.29. He said this was based on 625 shares at 62.44565 pence per 
share based on what he received for lapsed rights for actual shares he owned.
Mr J also said that the wording of the previous in 2015 in relation to lapsed rights was the 
same as the wording in 2019, contrary to what I had said. He said that IGML confirmed to 
him at that time this meant was that if there are lapsed rights proceeds paid then this will be 
paid accordingly. Mr J also said that to put things right IGML should also amend the wording 
of the instructions they send to clients to make it clear they will still get an adjustment if there 
are any lapsed rights in underlying shares.
IGML responded and said that a point it had not made clear is that it doesnt receive 
payment for lapsed rights and on that basis it seemed unreasonable for it to have to pay 
these to a client.
It said that it believed Mr J was aware that payments that had been previously made had 
been made on a goodwill basis and that whilst it understood that it may look as if it had been 
acting without consistency it isnt reasonable that a client despite being warned to the 
contrary, might expect a payment in situations like this. It said that it seemed fair where there 
had been a genuine misapprehension on the part of a client, a goodwill gesture could be 
made but it does not seem fair that a client can just expect payment on any occasion. It 
asked me to confirm if it should be liable to pay Mr J proceeds it doesnt receive when he has been told this isnt possible and he is warned that he needs to take action to avoid the 
rights lapsing.
I responded to IGML and said that I thought Mr J reasonably thought he would get paid 
lapsed rights based on what he had been told in 2015  namely that if there are lapsed 
rights proceeds paid then this will be paid accordingly. I said that whilst IGML had said 
goodwill payments had been made to Mr J I had seen nothing that showed it was made clear 
to Mr J these were goodwill payments.
IGML  responded and said so far as the reference to payment of lapsed rights in 2015 was 
concerned it would be reasonable for this to be referring to payment to it rather than 
meaning if payment was made generally this would be paid to Mr J regardless of whether 
IGML received payment. It said he was told if he did nothing his rights would lapse.
IGML accepted that Mr J may have expected a payment, and that it wasnt minded to 
dispute it being reasonable for him to do so on this occasion. It said what it did want to say is 
that, given it does not receive proceeds for lapsed rights, it is not reasonable for it to be 
liable for these payments on future occasions.
I went back to IGML and asked it why it thought Mr J would have been aware that that the 
reference in 2015 to lapsed rights proceeds being paid referred to lapsed rights being paid to 
IGML. It responded and said that the only conclusion it could draw from what was stated to 
Mr J was that if IGML received payment for lapsed rights this would be paid to him.
I asked it to confirm it hadnt benefited from the rights issue the subject of the complaint 
given Mr J had said as he had a Direct Market Access (DMA) account it would have hedged 
the risk. It said that whether, or not, Mr J placed a trade through the DMA system, it remains 
the case it didnt receive payment for lapsed rights in this instance.
I also asked it to explain why it thought Mr J would have been aware that previous payments 
were goodwill - I mistakenly referred to gratuitous - payments. IGML said that an instance of 
it paying Mr J in the absence of misinformation or breach of the customer agreement on its 
part, would in practice be a goodwill payment if it hadnt received payment itself for lapsed 
rights.
Finally I asked IGML in what way could any genuine misapprehension on the part of the 
client arise such that a goodwill payment would be made, if the information about lapsed 
rights was as clear as it was suggesting. In response the writer said it wouldnt have caused 
him to misunderstand the issue, but that he was not inclined to disbelieve Mr Js word that 
he believed a payment was due. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has pointed out that the figure of £340 that I referred to was what IGML originally 
offered him as a goodwill payment before it revised its offer to £393 which it paid into his 
account. As with the original offer this payment was conditional on Mr J confirming he would 
have no lapsed rights on future rights issues. Mr J didnt agree with this and asked that the 
money paid into his account be debited from his account.
The redress in my provisional decision didnt refer to a figure but to payment by IGML of the 
share value less the costs of issue and expenses. If this amounts to £393 then this is what 
would have to be paid to him.I note that IGML is not unwilling to pay redress to Mr J, its concerns are in relation to the 
possibility that it is expected to pay out in future rights issues where there are lapsed rights 
when it hasnt itself received any lapsed rights payment. 
However, whilst I understand why it would like me to comment on this, I am only considering 
the specific rights issue the subject of this complaint. I dont think it is appropriate for me to 
make any findings in relation to whether, or not, IGML should pay out where there is a future 
rights issue and no lapsed rights payment has been received by it.
Whilst IGML said it didnt want to go into huge amounts of detail on what has happened in 
the past, I think what happened previously is important in relation to the issues in this 
complaint.  
I still think that Mr J had a reasonable belief that he was entitled to the lapsed rights value of 
the shares credited to his account because of what he had been told, and what IGML had 
done, previously.
I note that IGML has said that the only conclusion that could be drawn from what was stated 
to Mr J in 2015  namely that if there are lapsed rights proceeds paid then this will be paid 
accordingly- was that this meant that if lapsed rights proceeds were paid to IGML then this 
would be paid to Mr J and not that this was a statement about the general position.
However, IGML has said that it doesnt get paid for lapsed rights. On that basis the 
statement in 2015 if lapsed rights proceeds are paid doesnt make sense in the context of 
this referring to possible payment to IGML. In other words, if the statement was referring to 
IGML there is no possibility of payment of proceeds to it so the answer to Mr Js query about 
receiving lapsed payment proceeds should have been a simple no.  
In the circumstances it isnt clear that IGML was referring to itself rather than to the general 
position with lapsed rights. Furthermore, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr J to have 
interpreted the statement in that way, as he has indicated he did. The statement makes no 
reference to IGML and, whilst I acknowledge payment of lapsed rights would normally be 
made to someone who held actual shares such that the use of the word if might be 
questioned, I think this could easily be seen as just poor wording rather than meaning if 
IGML was paid. 
I think Mr Js understanding of what would happen on a rights issue as a result of what he 
was told in 2015 will have been reinforced by the fact that IGML paid him lapsed rights 
proceeds in 2018. Although IGML has referred to any such payments as goodwill payments 
it has provided no evidence to show this is what they were. It suggests that any payment by 
it beyond what it received was de facto a goodwill payment. I dont think this necessarily 
follows and whilst it now says that such payments were goodwill payments it has provided 
no evidence to show this is what they were, so I dont think it is clear this is the case. 
In any event I think what is important is whether Mr J was made aware that any payment of 
lapsed rights to him from IGML was by way of a goodwill payment. I have seen nothing that 
shows Mr J was made aware payments for lapsed rights were only made as goodwill 
payments or that he was otherwise aware of this. I think he had a reasonable expectation 
that he would receive lapsed rights proceeds for the Synthomer rights issue. 
In making that finding I acknowledge the wording of the default option for the Synthomer 
rights issue, which referred to the rights lapsing without profit. However, given my findings 
and what had happened previously I am not satisfied this would have made it clear to Mr J 
that he wouldnt get anything for lapsed rights.As I have already said, my findings relate only to the Synthomer rights issue the subject of 
this complaint. I have made no findings relating to what should happen with any future rights 
issues. It might be advisable for the parties to discuss and clarify the position with regard to 
what will happen on future rights issues to avoid any misunderstanding. This is simply an 
observation on my part and not a direction. 
Putting things right
IGML should pay Mr J the value of the shares credited to his account less the costs of issue 
and expenses together with simple interest of 8% on the amount it calculates is payable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. IG Markets Limited must calculate 
and pay the redress I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman