DRN-2920847
The complaint
Mr D and Mr T complain about unfair treatment by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc. They say 
it made errors when setting arrangements for payments towards their arrears and wrongly 
recorded missed payments on their credit files. They say it should pay compensation for the 
trouble and upset and their increased borrowing costs. They want a different team in TMW to 
deal with their account. 
What happened
A court gave TMW a possession order for Mr T and Mr Ds property in 2013. Since then, 
theyve been making payments to repay their arrears. They intend to apply to have the 
possession order set aside, but had difficulty getting TMW to respond to them about this. 
Mr T and Mr D say TMWs litigation team repeatedly failed to set up payment arrangements 
properly. They say TMW recorded missed payments on their credit files incorrectly. Mr T and 
Mr D say this damaged their credit rating and increased their cost of borrowing.
Ive sent a decision setting out which parts of Mr T and Mr Ds complaints our rules allow us 
to look into. This includes:
poor service and too many security questions during a call.
missed payments wrongly recorded on credit files in 2016 and 2017, poor service and 
issues related to setting aside the possession order.
errors setting up an arrangement, failing to deal with questions related to setting aside 
the court order, poor service from the litigation team.
TMW accepted it made errors and offered £325 compensation. 
Our investigator said TMW had recorded incorrect data on Mr T and Mr Ds credit files in 
2016 and 2017. He said TMW could have set up a 12 months arrangement in June 2020 
rather than a one-month arrangement, which meant Mr T had to call again shortly after. And 
it could have referred Mr T and Mr Ds queries about setting aside the court order to its legal 
team several months earlier. This would have saved Mr T and Mr D trouble and upset. The 
investigator said TMW should pay further compensation of £75, making a total of £400.
TMW accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr T and Mr D didnt agree. Mr T said 
this didnt reflect TMWs repeated failings and the damage to his credit file over many years. 
He said he hadnt cashed TMWs cheques. Mr T said hed recently discovered TMW also 
recorded incorrect data on his credit file in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Incorrect information on credit files
In response to Mr T and Mr Ds complaint TMW said missed payments were recorded 
incorrectly for four months in 2016 and three months in 2017. It says it has now corrected 
this and Mr T and Mr Ds credit files show an arrangement was in place or that the monthly 
instalment was received in 2016 and 2017.
Mr T and Mr D had been in contact with TMW previously about errors with payments and 
arrangements. Mr T says TMW should have known its systems would record missed 
payments and corrected this. I agree, and TMW also accepts it made an error. The question 
is what it should do to put the matter right.
Mr T says his credit rating improved considerably, from fair to excellent, when TMW 
corrected its error in mid-2020. And when he looked for credit the average annual interest 
rate was significantly lower. He asked TMW to accept how badly this had affected him. 
I do understand Mr Ts point here. It seems likely that missed mortgage payments on his 
credit file would affect his credit score and how potential lenders viewed lending to him. He 
says this changed for the better when TMW made corrections. On the other hand, he was 
(until recently) in mortgage arrears. Also, potential lenders take a range of factors into 
account when making lending decisions, not just the information recorded by lenders on 
credit files. For instance, potential lenders might take into account how long Mr T and Mr D 
have lived at the same address and in the UK (it appears they spent time living overseas).
It would be difficult  if not impossible  to determine what impact the wrongly recorded 
missed payments had on lending decisions as opposed to Mr T and Mr Ds wider 
circumstances. I dont know if other lenders would have offered them credit, or on better 
terms, if TMW hadnt made these errors. While I appreciate Mr Ts frustration, I dont think I 
can assess what financial loss, if any, Mr T and Mr D might have due to the incorrect 
information on their credit files. 
No doubt though they were caused upset and trouble, and I think its right that TMW pays 
compensation for this. 
Problems with arrangements
Mr T and Mr D made arrangements with TMW to make additional payments to reduce the 
arrears on their account. Mr T and Mr D had raised previous complaints about problems and 
errors with the arrangements. While I cant look into these earlier complaints, I have taken 
into account this background to their complaint. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been, especially when Mr T and Mr D were 
making efforts to repay their arrears. I cant reasonably require TMW to change its systems  
its for TMW to make a commercial decision about this. But I can consider if it treated Mr T 
and Mr D fairly and, knowing how this issue affected them, if it did enough to reduce the 
impact on them. 
TMW set an arrangement for one month in mid-2020. TMB said this was to allow Mr T and 
Mr D time to provide updated income and expenditure information as they wanted to 
increase their payments. However, they made an over-payment and this resulted in the plan 
being cancelled. In August, TMW set an arrangement for 12 months and said Mr T and Mr D 
could provide information if they wanted to increase the amount. There doesnt seem any 
reason it couldnt have done this in June. This would have saved Mr T and Mr D time and 
trouble and possibly avoided what appears to have been a repeated problem with 
overpayments cancelling arrangements.
Setting aside the court orderMr T wants the possession order, issued in 2013, set aside. This would be a matter for a 
court to decide. I can consider whether TMW treated Mr T fairly when he wanted to discuss 
the order and the process for setting it aside. I dont think it did. The litigation team referred 
him to the complaints team  which referred him back to the litigation team. It was five 
months later that he had a response from the legal team. TMW should have referred the 
matter to the correct team at the outset. 
Putting things right
Mr T and Mr D were caused upset and trouble by TMWs errors. They had to contact TMW 
about the incorrect information on their credit files. And they would have been 
understandably upset to find out that the information was there at all. I must also take into 
account that TMW corrected this once the error was brought to its attention.
Mr T and Mr D had to contact TMW more often than necessary to set a new arrangement. 
And they had to contact TMW a number of times and wait several months before their 
questions about setting aside the possession order were responded to by the correct team. 
Mr T and Mr D say the service they received from TMW was poor and I agree. 
Mr T and Mr Ds upset and frustration about these issues is no doubt increased because 
they experienced similar problems in the past. I do appreciate their frustration that, under our 
rules, I can only look into the complaints dealt with in TMWs final response letters issued in 
2020. 
I think, taking all this into account, compensation of £400 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the upset and trouble TMWs errors caused Mr T and Mr D.  
Mr T and Mr D would like their account managed by a different team. While I do understand 
their frustration, I cant reasonably require this. Mr T provided a recent copy of his credit file 
which says payments are up to date. If Mr T and Mr D have repaid their arrears, it might well 
be that TMW will transfer their account away from the litigation team. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay £400 
to Mr T and Mr D. If any of the cheques it sent in response to the complaints dealt with here 
have been cashed, it can deduct the amount that has already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman