DRN-2959509
The complaint
Mr K has complained Capital One (Europe) plc has ignored issues around ID theft that have 
taken place on his credit card account. He has also disputed a large number of transactions.
What happened
Mr K opened an account with CapOne in November 2016. The account had a credit limit of 
£200 and over three years Mr K was given six different cards as cards were lost or stolen.
In December 2019 Mr K called CapOne and partially settled the account by paying £200. 
CapOne confirmed they would not be asking Mr K to repay the outstanding amount which 
stood at over £260.
Mr K brought a number of complaints to the ombudsman service. At this time he complained 
that thered been a number of transactions made from 3 December 2016 to 13 September 
2018 on his CapOne account that hed not made.
After CapOne had completed their investigation, they said they believed Mr K had made and 
authorised these transactions himself. Mr K confirmed he wanted our service to continue our 
investigation.
Our investigator reviewed the transactions based on the evidence provided by CapOne. She 
noted the evidence given to us by Mr K that hed been a victim of ID fraud. Overall she 
agreed with CapOne it was most likely Mr K had made the transactions himself. Specifically 
she felt it was unlikely an unknown third party  although Mr K named various parties he 
believed were responsible  would have got hold of card details for a number of cards and 
only used them to gamble.
Mr K disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Although Mr K had completed a number of subject access requests with the various 
gambling companies, he didnt share this information with our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ks complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 and 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if 
they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing 
thats had a major impact when I consider these transactions were made with a credit card.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by CapOne and 
Mr K. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 29 June 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. This view also contains a run-down of all of the 
transactions and their timing. I dont intend to repeat this detail either. Im also aware of the 
detailed response Mr K made to us about this outcome on 25 July 2021.
Firstly I should confirm I dont dispute Mr Ks vivid evidence hes been a victim of ID fraud. 
Hes named various people he believes are responsible for what happened. And its not just 
his account with CapOne that he believes had been compromised.
However the evidence Ive seen  including detailed submissions from CapOne which 
includes Mr Ks address changes and alternative card numbers provided to Mr K  do not 
support his argument that his CapOne cards were used without his authority.
The vast number of disputed transactions  in 2016, 2017 and 2018  were made online to 
gambling companies. Weve not been able to get any confirmation from these companies 
about whose account these transactions were made. Mr K confirmed that he did on occasion 
gamble online. Hes also told us he accessed information about these accounts from the 
companies involved. Hes confirmed this shows his identity was compromised. However 
Mr K has not shared this evidence with us so I am unable to verify this.
Winnings from gambling gets paid back to the credit or debit card used to make the 
transactions. This means theres no gain  apart from the gambling itself  for someone to 
use someone elses card to gamble. I wouldnt say it rules it out definitively but it certainly 
makes it much less attractive.
I also note three different card numbers were used for the transactions. This means 
someone would need to continually be getting hold of Mr Ks revised card details. Its also 
clear from the other transactions being made with these cards that these remained in Mr Ks 
possession throughout this period.
Id also wonder why someone would be using Mr Ks credit card with CapOne. He only had a 
credit limit of £200 which didnt offer any fraudster much headway.
Mr K has told us he only really realised the scope of the disputed transactions some time 
after his account was closed. However Mr K used CapOnes app from around February 2018 
and made ad-hoc payments towards his credit card account. Both of these facts suggest he 
was reviewing his monthly statements and would have been aware at the time if hed seen 
transactions he didnt recognise.
For example Mr K has disputed three transactions with a gambling company made in August 
2018. These total nearly £225 (along with the additional cash fees CapOne charged). Since 
this would be all of Mr Ks credit used in a month, Id have expected Mr K to have noticed 
these immediately if hed not made them.
One aspect of Mr Ks complaint is that the incorrect card number was used for one disputed 
transaction. At the same time Mr K has admitted making a booking with the hotel company 
involved. Id have to say that its unlikely the card details are wrong but in any case theres 
no impact on Mr K here.Mr K disputed iTunes transactions as he believed his iTunes account had been taken over. 
There were some transactions which Mr K disputed as I can see credits for those on his 
account statement. Mr K hasnt referred his concerns about the further disputed transactions 
to the merchant. I think he should have done as Im not sure how he expects CapOne to be 
able to demonstrate to the merchant that Mr K was a victim of ID fraud. Mr K has all the 
relevant data about the mobile phones of his that he believes were compromised.
Mr K has raised other issues that he wants us to consider. Specifically how CapOne 
managed his account but I cant see that he raised these issues or that CapOne ever 
completed an investigation on these. I cant consider this prior to CapOne considering these 
issues.
I know Mr K feels very strongly about what happened but overall I believe its more likely he 
authorised the disputed transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman