DRN-3084452
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) charged him for his packaged 
bank account. 
Mr M left employment with RBS and after a period of time, the account fee began to be 
charged. Mr M says that RBS had agreed with him verbally that he would not have to pay 
the monthly account fee.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint has already been looked into by one of our adjudicators. She didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr M doesnt agree with the assessment so has asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And after giving Mr Ms case a lot of thought, I havent seen enough to conclude that RBS 
did anything wrong in charging Mr M for his packaged bank account, after he left his 
employment with RBS. Or that RBS had mis-informed Mr M that he would receive the 
account for free.
I hope that my explanation will help Mr M understand how Ive come to this conclusion. In 
situations like these - where the evidence is unclear or there are conflicts between what the 
parties tell us  I make my decision based on what I think was more likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available.
I have been provided with documentation that satisfies me that RBSs policy was to charge 
for packaged bank accounts once a staff member leaves employment after a period of time 
 which is determined by the circumstances by which the staff member left employment.
Mr M says that when he left RBSs employment, he was told that he would not be charged 
for the account. Whereas RBS says that there is no documentary evidence of this being 
agreed.
Mr M has explained that there was no documentation, as it was a verbal agreement. But for 
me to ask RBS to waive Mr Ms account fee in perpetuity, I would need to be satisfied based 
on the available evidence that RBS made this promise. 
Apart from Mr Ms own recollections, there is no actual evidence of this agreement. Whereas 
the documentation that I have been provided states that it was RBSs policy to charge staff 
after they left employment. I note Mr Ms comments that he knows of other ex-staff members 
that are not paying for their account. But ultimately, I can only look into the circumstances of 
this complaint and based on everything that I have seen, on balance, I dont think RBS did 
anything wrong when it charged Mr M for his packaged account, or that it mis-led him in 
relation to him being charged. I know this isnt the outcome that Mr M was looking for. But I 
hope that my explanation will help him understand how Ive come to this conclusion.
I should explain at this point that this decision represents the last stage in this services 
process so there is no further recourse for appeal. That said Mr M is free to pursue his 
complaint elsewhere such as court if he wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman