DRN-2353682
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to prevent fraud taking place on his 
account. And failed to send him a replacement card in good time. Hed like compensation for 
the inconvenience. 
What happened
On the 29 June 2019 Mr H received a letter from Sainsburys informing him of a new PIN 
hed requested. Mr H contacted Sainsburys and was informed that following a phone call on 
the 23 June 2019 his address had been changed, and a new PIN requested. On the 
4 July 2019 Mr H also discovered fraudulent transactions which took place on his account. 
On the 1 September 2019 Sainsburys contacted Mr H to query whether transactions carried 
out on his account were authorised. Mr H confirmed he didnt authorise the transactions. 
Mr H complained that Sainsburys allowed a fraudster to pass security and take over his 
account and they didnt ask sufficient security questions. He was also unhappy that he was 
without his credit card for over a month following the fraud. 
Sainsburys refunded all of the disputed transactions. And thought they could have offered 
Mr H a better level of customer service overall. But didnt accept theyd helped to facilitate 
the fraud. They initially paid Mr H £75 in compensation and later offered him an additional 
£225. 
Mr H didnt accept Sainsburys conclusions so referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. But didnt uphold it. He thought that 
Sainsburys had followed their own security procedures, and werent responsible for the 
fraud. Overall, he thought that £300 was fair compensation for the service offered.
 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. And in response he said:
The security questions asked by Sainsburys werent acceptable and certainly not the 
typical ones asked when he called. 
Most of his information could have been obtained via the internet.
Why was the fraudster helped to answer certain questions?
Why wasnt the fraudster asked for his password?
This is a fraud waiting to happen as staff at Sainsburys have access to his 
password.
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for similar reasons, 
and Ill explain why below. 
Sainsburys have accepted that a fraudster gained access to Mr Hs account and carried out 
fraudulent transactions. Mr H is satisfied these have been refunded, as per Sainsburys 
responsibilities under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, so I wont be considering this 
here. Instead Ill be looking at whether, as Mr H claims, Sainsburys were responsible for 
facilitating the fraud. 
Fraud prevention:
Mr H is unhappy that Sainsburys allowed a fraudster to pass security on the 23 June 2019. 
Hes raised a number of points including that the security questions asked by Sainsburys 
werent acceptable, or similar to the ones hes previously been asked, and why was the 
fraudster assisted with some of the questions.
Id like to explain that its not the role of our service to regulate financial businesses, thats 
the role of the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And it isnt for our service to 
comment on the level of security businesses have in place to prevent fraud. Instead I need 
to determine if Sainsburys followed their own procedures when the fraudster called on the 
23 June 2019. 
 
Ive listened to the call that the fraudster had with Sainsburys on the 23 June 2019 and Ive 
seen a copy of Sainsburys caller verification procedures. And Im afraid I dont agree with 
Mr H here. I understand hes disappointed the fraudster managed to pass Sainsburys 
security  but Im satisfied the bank followed their security procedures here. I understand 
Mr H has raised some concerns about the bank assisting the fraudster but Im satisfied the 
questions were answered correctly. 
Mr H has also asked why Sainsburys didnt ask the fraudster for certain characters from the 
password  however at the time of the call Mr H hadnt set the password up. As Id expect 
Sainsburys to do after the first fraud they set up additional security on his account, including 
a password, plus loading him with a protective marker to CIFAS, the fraud prevention 
agency.
 
Mr H has also raised that Sainsburys staff have access to his full password  and therefore 
theres a risk of fraud. However, as Ive previously explained its not the role of our service to 
comment or instruct on business practice or policy  thats the role of the FCA. And Im also 
unable to consider the possibility that future fraud may occur on Mr Hs account. 
Overall customer service:
Mr H has raised that the overall service he received from Sainsburys wasnt acceptable. 
This includes Sainsburys failure to refund transactions sooner  asking him to go directly to 
the merchant  and the banks delay in sending him a replacement credit card. I understand 
Mr Hs frustrations here  and Im of the opinion that Sainsburys could have done more, 
after the fraud, to support Mr H in regaining his funds. However, the terms and conditions of 
Mr Hs account allow Sainsburys, if theyre concerned about the possibility of further fraud, 
to delay sending a replacement credit card. And I think they were entitled to apply this term 
here. 
I understand that Mr H has suffered significant inconvenience here, suffering fraud on two 
separate cards in a short period of time, as you would expect, caused him distress. 
However, I need to differentiate between the distress caused by the fraudster  and that 
caused by Sainsburys  and in doing so I think the overall compensation offer Sainsburys 
have made, of £300, is fair. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think Sainsburys should pay Mr H an additional £225 
in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to
-Pay Mr H £225 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman