DRN-3864898
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made 
under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms B got in touch with Fairmead when tenants at her rental property discovered 
water entering the building during bad weather in July and August 2021.
Fairmead appointed various claim handlers, loss adjusters and contractors to handle 
the claim. Following an inspection, it accepted the claim for the internal damage and 
asked a contractor to carry out the repairs.
Ms B questioned whether the roof would be included within the repairs. The 
contractor said the problem with the roof was related to maintenance and poor 
design, so its repair wasnt covered by the policy. A cash settlement was agreed for 
the internal damage and other points  but not the roof.
Ms B provided information from a roofer, D, who said the roof had suffered storm 
damage. She complained that the roof hadnt been covered and about the way the 
claim had been handled, including the timeframe.
Fairmead said it was clear the roof had failed due to its condition. It said the damage 
to the roof had occurred over time and this was wear and tear. It didnt think there 
had been any unreasonable delays, and noted the timescale had been impacted by 
Ms B having Covid-19 and the tenant having a baby.
Our investigator found the evidence provided by Fairmead to be more persuasive 
than that provided by Ms B and thought Fairmead had acted fairly.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Fairmeads decision to decline to cover the roof damage and 
the way it handled the claim. So thats what Ill focus on.
Roof claim
Ms Bs policy provides cover for all risks. This means it covers all damage unless its 
specifically excluded by the policy. Theres no dispute the roof is damaged and has 
let water into the building. If Fairmead thinks a policy exclusion applies, the onus is 
on it to show that.
I understand its relying on the following exclusions to decline the roof claim:
Damage caused by or consisting of

(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear

(d) faulty design or faulty materials used in its construction
(e) faulty workmanship
The loss adjuster has described heavy and torrential rain at the times water entered 
the building. The weather records Ive seen support that, showing extreme and 
intense amounts of rainfall in the area of Ms Bs property at the relevant times.
Internal photos show recent water damage, but no signs of longer-term staining or 
mould. If the roof had a problem with the way it had been built  or it had suffered 
from gradual deterioration or wear and tear  I would usually expect to signs of water 
ingress over a longer period of time.
Whilst Ms B isnt required to show there was a storm or a sudden one-off event, I 
think this kind of exceptional weather shows something external acted on the roof. 
Thats not indicative of a problem inherent in the roof, such as wear and tear or some 
kind of design or construction fault.
D said it had inspected the roof twice prior to the storms  in 2020 and in early July 
2021. It reported the roof to be water tight, with no sign of leakage, and the guttering 
and other drainage free flowing and fault free. This doesnt suggest a wear and tear 
or design / construction problem either. On the contrary it shows the roof had been 
regularly maintained and was in good condition prior to the torrential rain events.
D has been clear it thinks the damage to the roof was caused by the rainfall in July. It 
visited immediately after both periods of bad weather to carry out emergency repairs. 
So its comments are based on first hand observation of the damage.
Fairmead had a contractor look at the roof several months after the damage was 
caused and after emergency repairs had been carried out. It said there were areas 
where breaches and openings in the flashing could potentially allow water to enter 
the property. It thought this was a sign the roof was suffering wear and tear.
Ms B has questioned these findings and suggested Fairmeads contractor has 
observed the natural overlapping of the lead flashing and wrongly concluded this is a 
problem. She also notes D is a specialist roofer, whilst its unclear what the 
contractors position is.
But I think her broader point is that D has seen the property before and immediately 
after the damage, whilst the contractor has only seen it after emergency repairs have 
been carried out. And because of that, Ds opinion should hold more weight than the 
contractors.
I agree with Ms B on this point. Im satisfied Ds opinion is more persuasive than the 
contractors given it has greater knowledge of the condition of the roof, before and 
after the damage.I also bear in mind that the onus is on Fairmead to show how the roof has been 
damaged by wear and tear and/or a design or construction fault if its to decline the 
claim. Its contractor suggests potential problems that may have led to the water 
ingress. But the report doesnt explain in detail what caused these problems or 
provide photos to support its findings. Whilst Ds report isnt significantly more 
detailed and also doesnt have photos, its Fairmead that needs to show the damage 
was likely caused in ways excluded by the policy. Im not satisfied its done that.
Ive seen a report from a contractor, F. It says it had no access to the leaking part of 
the roof. It made no findings about the cause of the damage. Because of that, I dont 
think this report adds much weight to the arguments made by either party.
To put things right, Fairmead should accept the claim for the roof. It will need to work 
with Ms B to decide how to settle this part of the claim fairly.
And I understand Ms B has paid £180 for the roof report. Fairmead should reimburse 
that cost to her as its had a significant impact on the claim.
Claim handling
I wont go over each and every interaction Ms B has had with the various contractors 
during the claim. In summary, the claim began in September 2021 and it took until 
June 2022 to settle the accepted aspects of the claim.
Thats an unusually long period of time, especially considering the loss adjuster 
accepted the internal damage claim promptly. Part of the problem seems to be that 
the roof wasnt considered initially and its only when Ms B questioned it that 
Fairmead began looking into it. I dont understand why the roof was overlooked when 
it was clear from the outset it was the source of the water entering the building.
So there were clearly delays, including significant periods of time that Im satisfied 
should have been avoided by Fairmead.
I take into account that the claim was paused when Ms B had Covid 19 and the 
tenant had a baby. So some of the delay was outside of Fairmeads control. But the 
time this took is minor in comparison to the avoidable delays Fairmead is responsible 
for.
Ive seen from correspondence on file that the claim process didnt always go 
smoothly. It seems to have required lots of contact from Ms B at various stages of the 
claim to move things forward. I dont think this was helped by the number of agents 
working on behalf of Fairmead to carry out different parts of the claim.
Taking all of this into account, I think Fairmead should pay Ms B compensation to 
reflect the distress unnecessarily caused by delays and poor communication. Im 
satisfied £250 is reasonable in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B said she agreed with my provisional decision. She shared again her invoice for around 
£3,000 plus VAT for the roof repair.
Fairmead said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. It made a number of comments. 
Ill summarise the points I consider are most relevant. Fairmead said:The policy doesnt cover damage to the roof simply because it had failed. And nor 
does a large amount of rainfall automatically mean the damage was caused by a one 
off storm. For a storm claim, Fairmead would expect to see clear evidence of 
damage caused by a storm, such as tiles blown off or flashings lifted.
The type of roof Ms B has is prone to leaks as a result of wear and tear and its style 
and design.
The reports show the damage occurred over time. Just because there had been no 
sign of prior damage internally, it doesnt mean the roof hadnt been deteriorating 
over time. The heavy rainfall could have been the first point at which the roof damage 
became clear.
I had stated there was no evidence of deterioration of the roof over time, that the loss 
adjuster hadnt explained the cause of damage, and no images had been provided. 
This suggests I havent considered the evidence it had supplied in any depth.
For example, Fs report contains images which make it clear the roof was in a poor 
state of repair and had suffered problems with gradual deterioration. Evidence from 
the loss adjuster supported this and showed the damage wasnt caused by storm.
I havent considered that D isnt entirely independent. Their findings dont match the 
images of the roofs condition. And Ive referred to a report Fairmead hasnt seen.
Ive focused on the unusually long period of time it took to progress the claim without 
considering in any real tangible way the lengthy delays caused by Ms B and her 
tenant. Removing these events would show the claim was settled in a reasonable 
timescale. I should highlight specific periods of delay if I disagree.
My findings differ significantly from the investigators, which is unusual.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a complaint is referred to an Ombudsman, their role is to look at all the evidence 
afresh and reach their own opinion about what a fair outcome is  independent of the opinion 
of the investigator. That sometimes means the Ombudsman reaches an entirely different 
outcome to the investigator. Given the subjective nature of many of our cases, reaching a 
different outcome isnt uncommon. Fairmead ought to be aware of this.
Its clear Fairmead feels very strongly that my findings dont treat it fairly and I havent 
considered all the relevant information. I can assure both parties Ive carefully considered all 
the information theyve provided and thought about the impact that has on the overall 
complaint. I wont comment on each and every piece of information. Instead, I will focus on 
the points I consider most relevant to explain my outcome.
What does the policy cover?
Fairmead has questioned my interpretation of the policy cover, so I think its important to 
start by explaining my opinion about this again.The policy schedule Fairmead has provided for Ms B says: Cover Option A  All Risks 
applies.
The corresponding policy wording provided by Fairmead says: Cover Option A  All Risks 
 we will indemnify you in respect of damage to the property insured.
It goes on to say: The following Exclusions apply to Cover Option A  All Risks. It lists a 
number of exclusions, including those Fairmead have relied on.
Another section of the policy  Cover Option B  provides cover for a defined list of causes, 
such as storm. But this isnt the cover Ms B has, so it isnt relevant.
The cover Ms B has bought is effectively for any damage  subject to the exclusions and 
other policy terms and conditions. That means the damage doesnt need to be caused by a 
one off storm in order to be covered. If Ms B can show theres damage to the roof  which 
she has, thats not in dispute  it then falls to Fairmead to accept the claim, or seek to show 
a policy exclusion or other term means it would be fair to decline the claim. The onus is on 
Fairmead to show this.
Fairmead has sought to rely on the following exclusions to decline the claim:
Damage caused by or consisting of

(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear

(d) faulty design or faulty materials used in its construction
(e) faulty workmanship
Ive considered the available evidence to decide whether it would be fair for Fairmead to rely 
on any of these exclusions to decline the claim.
What does the evidence show?
Ive considered the evidence provided by both parties. In particular, the reports written by D, 
F, and Fairmeads contractor and loss adjuster. I havent seen any reason to question the 
independence of any of the authors of these reports. Im satisfied theyve all given their 
genuine, professional opinion about the damage.
Fairmead says Ive relied on a report from D that it hasnt seen. But it provided a copy of Ds 
report to us in its file submission, so Im satisfied its had the chance to see the report. All the 
comments I made about Ds findings are taken from that report.
Im usually more persuaded by comments within reports about the specific damage claimed 
for than general commentary. What may sometimes happen to a roof similar to Ms Bs is 
less relevant in my view than the evidence about what likely happened to Ms Bs roof itself. 
So whilst I take into account Fairmeads comments that the design and style of Ms Bs roof 
can lead to damage and water leaks as a result of wear and tear and/or faulty design / 
materials / workmanship, I dont think it would be fair for it to decline the claim unless it can 
show this is what likely happened in the particular circumstances if this case.
Ive looked again at the key reports.
D said it had inspected the roof twice prior to the bad weather  once shortly before and 
once over a year before. It had found no problems with the roof. Following the bad weather, it thought all the roof damage was caused by a storm, including lifted lead flashing and 
broken mortar. It found no evidence of wear and tear or design or installation problems.
Fairmead says this is inconsistent with photographic evidence, including that from F. I noted 
in my provisional decision that F said it was unable to access the leaking part of the roof. 
Whilst it took photos of other areas, I dont think theyre relevant. I accept what Fairmead 
says about the moss build up in a section of guttering  thats clearly shown in a photo. But 
as F said this wasnt where the leak was, I dont think it shows the leak was caused by 
gradual deterioration as a result of moss build up. Fairmead says Fs photos dont show any 
obvious storm damage. Since F couldnt access the leaking part of the roof, I dont think its 
photos are likely to show the damaged area. This is why I didnt place much weight on Fs 
report in my provisional decision.
Fairmeads contractor inspected the damaged area. It said lead flashing required re-
dressing, there were potential routes to breach the lining, and the mortar needed repair. I 
think this assessment of the problems broadly corresponds with what D said. The contractor 
said that maintenance related repairs due to general wear and tear were needed to put 
things right. As a result, the loss adjuster thought the damage was excluded from cover.
Turning back to the policy cover, the onus is on Fairmead to show the damage was caused 
by one of the exclusions noted above. That means the contractors opinion that the damage 
was caused by wear and tear needs to be more persuasive than Ds that it was storm.
In my provisional decision, I explained that both reports were similarly detailed and neither 
had the benefit of photos within them  although there are photos available. The contractor 
labelled the damage wear and tear but didnt explain why they reached that conclusion  or 
how the photos supported their opinion.
Bearing in mind D had seen the roof prior to the damage  and immediately afterward  
whilst the contractor only saw it months later, I was satisfied Ds view was more persuasive 
than the contractors. Fairmeads response hasnt changed my mind.
I agree with Fairmead that a lack of older, longer-term internal damage doesnt mean the 
external damage must have been recent. But given the internal damage was recent, I didnt 
think it supported Fairmeads view that there had been a long-standing problem with the 
roof.
Claim handling 
I explained in my provisional decision that I had taken into account that the claim was 
paused when Ms B had Covid 19 and the tenant had a baby. I noted this was outside of 
Fairmeads control and didnt hold it responsible for the time involved.
Fairmead says I havent sufficiently taken this into account. When thinking about delays, I 
looked at the timelines provided by both parties. Fairmeads suggests around a month when 
Ms B had Covid and similar again when the tenant had a baby  so around 2-3 months.
The claim overall took around 9 months to settle the internal damage. Shortly after that Ms B 
had the roof repair carried out. It will be around 15 months from the start of the claim when 
shes paid for it. In the circumstances, I remain satisfied its fair to say that the majority of the 
claim duration was within Fairmeads control. Whilst some of that would always have been 
necessary, I cant see why it should reasonably take at least 6 months to reach a conclusion 
to a relatively straightforward claim.As I noted in my provisional decision, the compensation figure was also for poor 
communication during the claim. Fairmead hasnt challenged that point.
Overall, thinking about all the evidence again and the points Fairmead made in response to 
my provisional decision, I remain satisfied it unfairly declined the roof claim and caused 
avoidable distress and inconvenience in the way it handled the claim. Im satisfied the 
remedy I outlined in my provisional decision remains the fair one to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Accept the roof claim
Pay £180 for the roof report
Pay £250 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman