The complaint
Mrs H complains that Experian Limited charged her after she ended a free trial.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 June 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold 
this complaint. I said:
What happened
On 14 March 2019 Mrs H set up a 30 day free trial with Experian in her married name. Mrs H 
says she tried to cancel online on 12 April 2019 but was unable to do so. She called
Experian the following day and asked it to refund the £14.99 subscription she had been
charged. Mrs H says her request was agreed and Experians case file shows it refunded the
subscription on 15 April 2019.
On 14 March 2019 Mrs H also set up another profile in her maiden name. Mrs H says this
was a mistake and Experians final response dated 6 June 2019 accepts being able to set up 
a second profile was an error caused by its systems. Experians final response says this
issue was entirely its fault. When Mrs H called Experian on 13 April 2019, the subscription in 
her maiden name was not cancelled or refunded.
On 13 May 2019 Mrs H was charged a second subscription for the profile set up in her
maiden name and contacted Experian again to complain. Experian refunded the payment
and responded to Mrs Hs complaint on 6 June 2019. In its final response, Experian refused
to refund the third subscription fee. Experian said Mrs H had failed to cancel the subscription 
in time so wasnt due a refund.
Mrs H referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. When
Experian sent us its case file it offered to refund the final subscription fee as a gesture of
goodwill and the investigator thought that was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mrs H
asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After the investigator sent Mrs H their findings she asked to see Experians evidence. Mrs H
correctly pointed out that Experians case file shows the £14.99 taken on 13 April 2019 in
DRN-1929548relation to the subscription in her married name was actually refunded after she called to
cancel. And Mrs Hs subscription for the profile in her married name was also cancelled.
Experians case file shows the payment taken for the subscription in Mrs Hs married name
was refunded on 15 April 2019 and the service was cancelled. I dont need to consider
whether Mrs H cancelled the subscription in her married name in time to avoid the £14.99
charge, because Experian refunded it to her on 15 April 2019 and closed that profile down.
Ive focused on the second profile Mrs H was able to create in error. Experian accepts Mrs H 
shouldnt have been able to create multiple profiles and subscriptions. Im satisfied the
profile in Mrs Hs maiden name was created in error due to a systems issue. Had Experians
systems worked correctly, Mrs H would only have been able to create one profile and
subscription.
It follows that any charges incurred as a result of a profile Mrs H should never have been
able to set up were applied in error. I don't think it was ever Mrs H's intention to have two
profiles running at the same time or to pay for Experian's services so she could monitor
credit in her maiden name.
Experians submission offered to refund the £14.99 as a gesture of goodwill and Im pleased
its done that. In Mrs Hs response to the investigator she asked us to consider how her
account had been handled. I agree that Experian has made mistakes that have caused Mrs
H a reasonable level of trouble and upset. Experians systems allowed Mrs H to create two
profiles which meant she was charged two subscriptions in April 2019. Despite that,
Experian only looked at refunding one of the payments it took in April 2019 and didnt cancel 
Mrs Hs profile in her maiden name which led to a further payment being taken in May 2019.
I'm satisfied the issues went on for too long and that Experian didn't deal with Mrs H's
complaint fairly. Whilst I'm pleased Experian has offered to refund the final subscription
payment, I'm not persuaded that's a fair way to resolve this complaint. Unless I see
something that changes my mind, I intend to tell Experian to increase the settlement beyond
its offer to refund the final subscription, and pay Mrs H £100 for the distress and
inconvenience caused. I think that more fairly reflects the impact of its errors on Mrs H.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H responded to say she agreed with my provisional decision. Experian responded and 
said it had nothing further to add but didn't say whether it agreed or not.
As Mrs H has confirmed she's willing to proceed and Experian hasn't given me anything new 
to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I still think Mrs H's complaint should be upheld and that Experian should refund the final 
subscription payment and pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Experian Limited to refund the 
remaining £14.99 subscription and pay Mrs H £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman