DRN-3931295
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr G was a victim of an investment scam. In December 2021, he received a message on 
social media from someone who then claimed to have sent the message by mistake. The 
dialogue continued with daily messaging until eventually the person told Mr G a family 
member could help him to make money from investing in cryptocurrency. 
Mr G was then put in touch with someone claiming to be a broker working for a company Ill 
refer to as K. Mr G did some research but Ks website had only been registered for a month 
so there were no reviews or anything to suggest it was a scam. 
The broker advised Mr G to open an account through Ks website. He called customer 
services so that his account could be verified, and the broker then helped him trade with 
virtual money, showing him how to make a profit. Mr G could see virtual profits in the 
account so he decided to invest, creating a Revolut account as he knew it would allow him to 
invest in cryptocurrency. 
The broker asked Mr G to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto his online wallet. Between 12 December 
2021 and 29 December 2021, he made 17 payments via online transfer from his Revolut 
account to a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as C totalling £60,074.
Initially, Mr G transferred £50 and £100. He was then told he needed to invest more money, 
so he transferred £3,000. Throughout the scam period, Mr G received two small withdrawals 
from his trading account and the broker sent screenshots of his profits. But when he asked 
to make a full withdrawal, he was told hed need to pay liquidation fees. So, between 27 
December 2021 and 29 December 2021, Mr G sent a total of £32,924 to pay what he was 
told were fees which would allow him to access the full account balance. Eventually, the 
broker stopped contacting Mr G and he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr G contacted Revolut but it said there was nothing it could do because the scam didnt 
occur on the Revolut platform. It accepted Mr G was the victim of a sophisticated scam but it 
said  there had been a warning about K on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register 
since 16 December 2021, so there had been information that K might fraudulent while the 
scam was still on-going.
It said it provides information to its customers on how to avoid scams and it didnt accept it 
had acted negligently, explaining it had transaction monitoring and fraud prevention systems 
in place, but the disputed transfers werent suspicious and didnt trigger those systems.
It apologised for the fact Mr G wasnt told about the complaints process, but it explained that 
as soon as it was told about the scam, all the necessary steps were taken to resolve the 
issue.
Mr G wasnt satisfied and so, with the help of a representative, he complained to this service. 
He explained hed only been living in the UK for around 4 years and was exhausted as he 
had a new baby.  He said he was disappointed with the customer service hed received 
because Revolut didnt update him about his claim.
He argued Revolut didnt have effective measures in place and that he was only ever asked 
where the money had come from, not where it was going. He said the warning on the FCA 
register was posted after he made the first payment and he doesnt accept he should have 
continued to research the company after he made the first investment.
Mr Gs representative explained he wasnt an experienced investor and his research had 
shown nothing to suggest K was operating a scam. The website was very professional and 
could be viewed in both English and Japanese. Mr G had access to his trading account and 
made successful withdrawals.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She explained that, even though Mr Gs 
Revolut account was newly opened, the payments should reasonably have been viewed as 
out of character because of their high value, and because they were sent to a new payee 
within days of each other.
She felt Revolut should have contacted Mr G to ask questions when he made the third 
payment for £3,000 and that if it had done so, his loss could have been prevented. But she 
also thought Mr G had contributed to his loss because hed trusted an unknown individual 
after just a week of conversing on social media and, as a first-time investor, he should have 
been more cautions, especially as there were no reviews about K.
Mr G initially said he didnt agree the refund should be reduced, but he subsequently 
accepted the findings. But Revolut has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
It maintains its not liable to refund Mr G because the payments were made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company, so the account wasnt linked to the scam. It argues that 
when the funds were sent from Mr Gs Revolut account, they landed safely in the account he 
held with C. 
Revolut has also said the payments didnt alert its security system because they were being 
sent to an account in Mr Gs own name and that it wasnt possible to conclude the spending 
was suspicious as there was no history to compare the activity with. Consequently, there 
was no reason for it to intercept the payments other than the sole fact that they were being 
sent to a cryptocurrency platform.
Finally, it has argued that its unfair that its being asked to refund the money because C is 
unregulated and that, at the very least it should share responsibility with the bank that sent 
money to Revolut.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr G says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code didnt apply in this case because the 
payments were transferred to an account in Mr Gs own name, so the code didnt apply.
Im satisfied Ms G authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr G didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Revolt is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Revolut had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr G when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Mr G from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Revoluts systems, in part because the account 
was new and there wasnt a transaction history to compare with. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr G 
normally ran his account and I accept this was difficult due to the lack of account history. 
However, while all the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, the third 
payment of £3,000 was for a large amount and it was to a payee to whom Mr G had only 
previously transferred £100 and £4.99. The payment also left the account empty. Because of 
this, I think it should reasonably have flagged as unusual and triggered a call from Revolut. 
During this call I would expect Revolut to have asked some probing questions around how 
hed met the broker and whether hed been provided with a trading account. In response, I 
think its likely Mr G would have told it there was a third-party involved and how hed met that 
third-party. He would have also explained that he was told to move money into an account in 
his own name.   
I would then expect Revolut to have warned Mr G about the risks associated with the 
investment and explained that the involvement of a third party and the fact hed be advised 
to transfer the money into an account in his own name is a red flag with investment scams. 
Id also expect Revolut to discuss with Mr G the nature of the checks hed undertaken and to 
give some advice on additional due diligence.
Im satisfied that if Mr G had been asked these questions, hed have answered truthfully 
because theres no evidence of him having misled the bank before or that he was told to do so by the scammers. And, consequently, Im satisfied that Revolut would likely have 
gathered enough information to suggest the investment could be a scam.
At the time Mr G made the third payment, there were no warnings on the FCA register which 
would have alerted him to the fact this was a scam (there were no warnings with either the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or  International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) websites until 16 December 2021) but while I understand Mr G was 
tired and exhausted, I havent seen any evidence that he was keen to take risks. He didnt 
have a history of high-risk investing and I think that if hed had any inkling this might be a 
scam its likely he wouldnt have chosen to go ahead with the payments. Because of this, I 
think that Revolut missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do so might 
have prevented Mr Gs loss. Consequently, I will direct it to refund the money Mr G lost from 
the third payment onwards.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence, and our investigator has recommended a 50% reduction to 
the settlement for contributory negligence. The question for me to consider is whether Mr G 
went ahead with the payments in the face of information or evidence that should have made 
him stop to consider whether this was a scam.
I think the means by which the scammer got in touch with Mr G should reasonably have led 
him to question whether the person was operating a scam. According to Mr G, he the 
scammer purported to have contacted him by mistake and I would expect a reasonable 
person to question why an unknown third party would then go out of their way to help them 
make money in such circumstances. I accept he wasnt an experienced investor, but Mr G 
worked in IT and should reasonably have known the existence of a professional looking 
website alone doesn't mean that a business exists or is legitimate.
This was a sophisticated scam and the broker had clearly earned Mr Gs trust, but he had 
plenty of time to reflect on the circumstances and the fact there was no information available 
online about K and, in the circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable to have made 
some additional checks.
I appreciate Mr G had seen the website and he had also made significant withdrawals which 
would have given him some confidence the investment was genuine, but I agree he couldve 
done more to protect himself, so I think a 50% reduction to the settlement is fair.
Finally, Revolut is concerned that it cannot fairly be held liable for Mr Gs losses in 
circumstances where the involvement of other banks means liability could more fairly be 
shared. Our investigator has correctly explained that the payment from the originating 
account wasnt to a firm associated with cryptocurrency. Further, irrespective of whether a 
business is regulated, we cant tell consumers who to complain to and for the purposes of 
this complaint I can only consider the issues as they relate to Revolut. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut to refund:
£59,924.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.*If Revolut deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mr G 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman