DRN-3861444
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wouldnt allow it 
access to its money other than with an exchange rate loss.
What happened
A has Euro and Sterling denominated accounts with RBS. It wanted EUR 12,800. It was told 
that the company providing RBS with exchange services had gone into administration. And 
so, it would need to transfer from its Euro account and pay this into its sterling account and 
then order the Euros. It made the first conversion and was told first that it couldnt have 
Euros. But then that when they were ordered it would cost a further £760.53. It complained.
RBS said it would credit A with the exchange difference if it collected the currency. And in 
recognition of the directors time on the phone and the error would pay compensation of 
£250.
Our investigator didnt recommend that RBS do more than this although as I will point out 
below didnt refer to the conditionality of the offer from RBS. She said that the amount of 
compensation was in line with our published guidelines.
A didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that it wanted some £5,000 
and would consider taking legal action. There had been 15 hours of calls and stress about 
this. It had lost money and RBS couldnt provide the service.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2022. I set out below what I said.
I understood from the information provided by RBS that it was unable to allow direct 
currency withdrawals from As Euro account after 5 October 2021. The transaction in 
question took place on 23 June 2022. I also understood that the general issue has now been 
resolved.
RBS explains that the workaround was for A to transfer money between the accounts, then 
order currency in branch and withdraw this. Frankly in itself this was inconvenient for A to do.
What didnt seem to have been anticipated was the spread/ margin between buying and 
selling rates and the potential for the exchange rate to move during the process.
Here I could see that A converted EUR 12,800 to £10,789.74 on 23 June 2022. It was then 
told by staff that they werent able to order currency. This wasnt the correct position for a 
business banking customer. And then A was told that to buy EUR 12,800 would cost 
£11,550.27 and so a loss of £760.53. For obvious reasons A wasnt prepared to do so and 
complained.
A final response letter dated 8 July 2022 was issued stating that if A collected the Euros now 
in branch then the difference would be paid. And in recognition of the time spent on this 
compensation of £250 was paid to As account on that day.
As I referred to above I wasnt clear A realises the implications now of the offer. And that as I 
understand it would need to pay £11,550.27 for the Euros and then would be given EUR 
12,800. 
Having listened to what its director has told this service during a call, A had to make 
payments in Euros. And I could see that it made a number of debit entries to its sterling 
account after the money was credited and that by the time the final response was issued that 
money was no longer in the account.
my assessment
I considered A has been inconvenienced by not being able to access funds directly from its 
Euro account. The proposed solution for A firstly as I said didnt anticipate the margin/ 
spread on the money and any exchange movements. And also, wasnt understood by 
relevant staff and required the director of A to spend many hours on the phone and it seems 
visit a branch. A had to make its own arrangements to make payments as Ive referred to 
above. So, I didnt think its now reasonable to require it to collect the currency, especially as 
it would have been exposed to an exchange rate risk since the conversion was done. In any 
event if it did want the currency then it ought to have been able to go into a branch and pay 
the net amount. The offer here seems conditional on it paying a higher amount first and then 
getting a credit. To make this transaction work it should in the first place have received 
£11,550.27 into its account so it could buy Euros at no margin.
So, I considered that As loss on this money has already been crystallised in what it received 
and took from its account. With that in mind I said I was going to require RBS to pay it this 
money. It then has the option of buying Euros if it still needs them. But I made clear to A that 
this would then be at the rate available on the day and so that the cost may be more or less 
than £11,550.27. I highlighted that Ive made this assessment on the understanding that A 
hasnt collected the currency already. If it has then the award as set out below still stands. If 
it hasnt then what Ive said in my reasoning above holds: its had more than sufficient 
opportunity to collect it.
We dont make punitive awards and Ive taken into account our published guidelines. A is a 
separate legal entity to the director and so we cant consider his distress and a company 
cant suffer distress. So, I said I was looking at inconvenience and any disruption to A. I also 
needed to say that we dont generally tend to make awards for units of time and nor at 
professional rates. I considered that A should be paid total compensation of £400. This 
reflects as I referred to above both the inconvenience of it having to access money in this 
way in the first place and then the errors made when this was attempted. I said if A doesnt 
accept my decision when it becomes final it remains free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant time limits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS said it would agree to pay the further compensation of £150. It explained that in fact A 
collected the currency and was reimbursed £760.53 on 25 July 2022. It provided an extract 
from As statement to show this.
A said that it had no other means to bring RBS to task without incurring legal costs and 
further time. And so, it said it would accept the further compensation in settlement of the 
complaint.Im grateful for the further explanation from RBS of whats happened following our 
investigators assessment of this complaint. The payment of £760.53 has already been 
made. I see no reason to depart from the other conclusions of my provisional decision. And 
so, my award for A is a further £150 in compensation making a total of £400. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
1) Pay A further compensation of £150 which it has now agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman