DRN-4217049
The complaint
Ms M complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited has provided her with misleading information 
following her request for a copy of her credit agreement.
What happened
Ms M made a request to PRA Group for a copy of her original credit agreement. PRA Group 
contacted the original lender to obtain a copy of the agreement, and this was later sent to Ms 
M. 
Ms M complains that she hasnt received a copy of the original agreement. She says the 
agreement she received has been reconstituted as it has her married name on it, and when 
she took out the lending, she was still using her previous name. 
Ms M feels that PRA Group hasnt treated her fairly because it hasnt provided her with 
accurate information. 
The Investigator looked into Ms Ms complaint, but they didnt think that the complaint should 
be upheld. They explained that a complaint about the reconstituted agreement should be 
directed to the original lender, because it is responsible for producing the agreement. It 
explained that the rules state that a reconstituted agreement is acceptable, but also noted 
that because the information in the agreement isnt accurate as to when it was taken out, this 
might affect how PRA collect the debt. But the Investigator reiterated that this service cant 
decide if the debt is enforceable or not, as this is a matter for the courts. 
Ms M didnt agree with the Investigators view. Mainly because she felt that PRA Group 
should be held responsible for not providing her with accurate information given that it is now 
the legal owners of the debt. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything on file, I wont be upholding Ms Ms complaint. 
The Investigator who provided their view on this case has already provided Ms M with very 
thorough responses as to why PRA Group arent responsible for the information included in 
the reconstituted credit agreement it sent to her. There isnt much more I can really add to 
what the Investigator has said. So, my decision here wont go into as much detail as the 
Investigator has.
It isnt in dispute here that PRA Group provided Ms M with a reconstituted copy of her credit 
agreement, that had her married name on it. 
Ms M says the name on the original agreement should have been her previous name 
because she got married after she took out the credit. And she thinks that PRA Group ought 
to be held responsible for providing her with inaccurate information.
The credit agreement was requested from the original lender by PRA Group, which was the 
right thing for PRA Group to do, given that the original lender was the firm that issued the 
agreement. And therefore, responsible for providing a copy of it on request. This is normal 
practise in these circumstances. 
I know Ms M disagrees with this point; however, I cant fairly or reasonably hold PRA Group 
responsible for the original lender providing a reconstituted agreement, that didnt have her 
correct name on it for the time of taking out the lending. I appreciate that Ms M thinks that 
PRA Group should be held responsible for providing inaccurate information as it is now the 
legal owner of the debt, but I dont agree with this. It was the original lender who initially 
entered into the agreement with Ms M, and therefore created the credit agreement. It has 
explained why it could only provide a reconstituted agreement and not the original copy. And 
so, I cant expect PRA Group to provide a copy of something that it simply did not create or 
was not involved in creating. This is a matter for the original lender.
PRA Groups responsibility here was to provide Ms M with a copy of the agreement, which I 
can see it has done. And I would have expected it to dispute the information on the 
agreement with the original lender when Ms M let them know it wasnt correct, which I can 
see it has done. 
I can see that Ms M has previously asked for this service to find that the debt is 
unenforceable as a result. However, this service cant make this finding and it would be a 
matter for the courts to decide.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman