DRN-4039051
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Revolut Ltd didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
In 2022, Mr A was approached on a social media platform and offered a chance to earn a 
supplementary income. His employer would be an e-commerce platform and his role would 
be to carry out discrete tasks designed to boost product reviews and ratings.
He was told this was a home-based role and the hours were flexible. Mr A found the 
opportunity to be an attractive one. Unfortunately, this transpired to not be a genuine 
employment opportunity but a scam. He was sent a link to the platform. It was named to 
imitate a genuine business which helped to convince Mr A that the opportunity was 
legitimate.
He completed multiple missions via the app and earned a commission payment of £170. 
The scammers told Mr A that, if he wanted to continue and to earn more valuable returns, he 
would need to make payments via a cryptocurrency platform. He was initially assured that 
these funds would be returned to him. He agreed to do so. In total, he transferred a little over 
£49,000 to the fraudsters.
He realised it was a scam when he was told that he couldnt receive any of his commission 
without paying a further £44,000. He called the legitimate business whose name the 
scammer had been imitating and one of its employees confirmed hed fallen victim to a 
scam. He notified Revolut straight away. Revolut didnt agree to refund him. It said that Mr A 
shouldve taken more care before transferring his funds and that Revolut had displayed a 
warning on several of the payments he made in connection with the scam.
Mr A was unhappy with that and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The Investigator thought that, by the time Mr A 
asked it to make the fifth payment of £2,500, Revolut ought to have recognised that it carried 
a significant fraud risk and intervened to ensure Mr A wasnt at risk of financial harm.
If it had done so, she was persuaded that the scam wouldve been uncovered and Mr As 
losses prevented. However, she also thought that Mr A ought to be considered partially 
responsible for his losses and it was therefore fair and reasonable for Revolut to deduct 50% 
from any redress payable.
Revolut agreed to settle the complaint in line with the Investigators recommendation.
Mr A, however, didnt accept the Investigators view. He didnt think it was fair for a deduction 
to be made. Because no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr A is liable for any payment that 
hes authorised. He did authorise these payments, albeit only because he was deceived by 
the scammers into thinking it was in connection with a genuine employment opportunity. But 
since he authorised them, hes considered liable at first instance.
However, that isnt the end of the story. Good industry practice required that Revolut be on 
the lookout for transactions that were unusual or out of character such that they might have 
indicated that their customer was at risk of financial harm due to fraud. On identifying such 
activity, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the risk  for example, by 
temporarily pausing a payment and speaking to its customer before allowing it to be 
processed.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Revolut ought to have intervened when Mr A 
made the fifth payment in connection with this scam. It was significantly larger than previous 
payments made from his account and hed set up five new payees in quick succession to 
make payments of escalating value. Revolut did display a general warning on that payment 
informing Mr A that it considered there to be a fraud risk. But its system allowed him to 
simply make the payment a second time and it was processed successfully. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think it ought to have made direct contact with him to find out 
what the purpose of the payments was. If it had done so, I think it wouldve promptly 
uncovered that Mr A had fallen victim to an increasingly frequent scam and it couldve told 
him to not make any further payments.
Ive also considered whether Mr A can be considered partially responsible for his own losses 
here. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory negligence 
but kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, I do think he shouldve acted more 
cautiously here and its fair and reasonable for that to be reflected in the redress Revolut 
pays.
The arrangement he was entering into didnt make a great deal of sense  Mr A was having 
to transfer large sums of money to his employer, rather than being paid for the work he was 
doing. Revolut did warn him about the fraud risk in connection with several of the payments 
he made and I think this ought to have prompted him to carry out more research on whether 
this opportunity was a legitimate one.
Mr A had also been told by the scammers that his funds would be returned to him promptly 
along with his commission payments. This didnt happen, but he continued to comply with 
requests for payments from the scammers. In summary, I think there were enough 
indications here that this opportunity might not be a genuine one and Mr A shouldve 
proceeded more cautiously than he did.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish what Mr A has been through. He was targeted 
by a cynical and manipulative fraudster and has lost a large sum of money. However, my 
role is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of Revolut. Overall, Im satisfied that 
Revolut settling this complaint on a shared liability basis is the fair and reasonable outcome.
Other issues
Ive also considered whether Revolut should make an additional payment to Mr A to reflect 
any distress and/or inconvenience hes suffered. However, while falling victim to a scam 
must have been a source of incredible stress for Mr A, I have to bear in mind that the 
primary cause of that stress was the scammer, not Revolut. Im afraid Im not persuaded that Revolut needs to pay him anything more to reflect that.
Im also not going to ask Revolut to reimburse his legal costs. This service can make an 
award for legal costs in certain cases, but its not common that we do so. Thats to reflect the 
fact that bringing a case to this service is free of charge and shouldnt generally require 
expert help to do so. Mr A chose to bring the complaint with the help of a professional 
representative and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Revolut to refund 
those costs.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Mr A accepts my decision, Revolut Ltd should refund him 50% of the value of each 
transaction he made to the scammer from and including the 5th payment. It should also add 
interest at the rate applicable to the account Mr A made these payments from.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman