DRN-1995943
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F has a mobile phone insurance policy through his bank account, which is underwritten 
by Assurant. In July 2019, Mr F was abroad when he noticed his phone and wallet were 
missing. So he made a claim.
Assurant asked Mr F to complete a claim form and provide proof of ownership of the phone. 
Mr F did this and returned it to Assurant along with proof of usage from his network provider. 
He stated in his claim that hed traced the phone using the Find my iPhone facility and 
tracked it to a restaurant hed been in. He also said hed used his friends phone to put his 
phone in lost mode.
Assurant considered the claim but declined it on the basis that it believed Mr F had provided 
false or inaccurate information. It said the phone wasnt active on Find my iPhone and the 
phone had been set up with a different SIM card the day after the date it was lost.
Assurant also said it had evidence the phone had been taken into a second-hand 
trader/recycler to obtain a quote for the sale of the device a number of times on the date the 
phone was lost.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr F had barred the phone when returning to 
the UK and there was nothing to show he had removed the phone from his iCloud account. 
He also said Assurant hadnt proven Mr F had given it false or inaccurate information. 
Overall he found Mr F had given consistent information so the claim should be paid.
Whilst Mr F accepted our investigators recommendations, Assurant disagreed. It said that to 
remove the phone from Find my iPhone and/or lost mode, Mr Fs passcode and Apple 
iCloud password would be required. So it would be unlikely someone else could do so. And 
it said to set the phone up with a new SIM card would also require security on the device to 
be completed. Mr F had facial recognition and a six-digit passcode on the phone, so its 
unlikely someone who found the phone would be able to do this.
Since the complaint was investigated, Assurant has said it has completed further checks and 
found the phone is now restored and being used under a network provider abroad. It said 
this couldnt have been done without Mr Fs security information.
The complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision, in which I said as follows:
Mr F has a mobile phone insurance policy that covers his handset and accessories if they 
are lost or stolen. When considering a claim, its reasonable for Assurant to ask for some 
evidence to satisfy itself the claim is valid. This is quite usual with insurance claims of any 
kind. And this requirement is set out in the terms and conditions, which say the policyholder is required to provide information to support their claim; its important they take reasonable 
care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of their knowledge; failure to do this 
may affect the payment of a claim; and if false or inaccurate information is provided and 
fraud is identified, the claim will not be paid.
The policy document also explains that Assurant shares data with law enforcement agencies 
and airtime providers.
When making his claim, Mr F confirmed that his phone was linked to his iCloud account and 
the Find my iPhone facility was activated. He said hed used his friends phone put it into 
lock mode and to track its whereabouts using Find my iPhone.
Assurant made a number of enquires when it looked into the claim. It says these checks 
showed the phone wasnt active on Find my iPhone or in lost mode  Find my iPhone was 
removed. Assurant says the only way to remove the phone is for someone to log in using his 
details, which presumably only he knows (or someone hes told). If the phone was lost, I 
think its unlikely the person who found it would have this information.
Assurant also noted that the phone was taken to a mobile phone retailer to get a quote for a 
sale a number of times earlier in the day Mr F said it was lost; and the phones settings were 
later restored, which cant be done if Find my iPhone is active.
Mr F says the phone could have been reset before he put it in lost mode. But I think its 
unlikely that could have happened given that Mr F had facial recognition and a passcode on 
the phone. These details would be needed to access the handset in order to replace the SIM 
card and remove the device from his iCloud account.
Assurant had a number of concerns about the claim to the extent it couldnt be satisfied the 
claim was valid. Ive considered the Mr Fs comments carefully and I appreciate he will be 
very disappointed. But I think Assurants concerns were legitimate. Having looked into the 
claim carefully and taken into account all the information, it was reasonable for Assurant to 
say it wasnt satisfied the phone was lost in the manner Mr F describes. He says he tracked 
the phone to a restaurant and put it in lost mode. But the other evidence doesnt support that 
 when Assurant checked, the phone wasnt active on Find my iPhone and wasnt in lost 
mode. And the evidence in this case doesnt show that those features could have been 
disabled without his security information being used to access the phone and iCloud account 
after the date it was lost.
So, it follows then that I dont think this complaint should be upheld, and I dont 
think Assurant need to do anything further.
Assurant accepted the provisional decision and has no further comments to add but Mr F did 
not agree. He says:
He correctly selected Lost mode & Find my iPhone and received two notifications, 
the second one showing the phone was found at 6:26am on 8 July 2019 next to the 
bar/restaurant he had been to the night before.
To suggest he tried to sell the device multiple times is just absurd.
When they flew back on 8 July the gate closed at 4:45pm, and they took a taxi to the 
airport at 1pm. 
He used his friends phone to access his account and put the phone in lost mode.
The weekend in question was a stag party; they were a large group and were all 
drinking. Its not unheard of for someone to view another persons passcode when in 
a bar with lots of people.He had facial recognition and a six digit passcode on his phone. His wallet and 
phone were also stolen. His passcode was his date of birth, which was on his driving 
licence. Most people use a date of birth as their passcode  someone could have 
guessed that was the code. 
 
He followed all the correct steps when he returned home. He disabled the security then, as 
he was worried whoever had his phone could somehow gather details through the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has made a number of points in reply to the provisional decision. Ive only summarised 
the key points above but I have considered everything carefully. Mr F says he followed all 
the correct procedures and has been consistent in his explanation of what happened. I 
appreciate also that, given the circumstances of the evening, he wouldnt necessarily have a 
clear recollection of what happened - and I cant be sure of precisely what happened either. 
But its not for me to determine that  what I need to decide is whether Assurants decision 
was a reasonable one, taking into account the policy terms and the information it had 
available. And my view remains that it was.
Mr F says its absurd to suggest he tried to sell his phone. But Assurant has evidence 
showing it was taken to a retailer. He also says he put the phone in lost mode the following 
day, and only removed this once he was back home. Whilst its possible someone could 
have taken his phone, managed to get past his security and then re-set it, hes confirmed he 
had both face recognition and a passcode. Mr F seems to be saying someone could have 
reset the phone before he put it into lost mode. But as Ive said, they would have needed his 
security ID for that. And presumably if the phone had been reset and removed from his 
account then he wouldnt have been able to put it into lost mode  which he says he did.
In addition, Mr F says that after he got home he removed the phone from lost mode because 
of security concerns. As I understand it, there is an option to wipe a lost phone, so if he was 
worried about security its not clear why he would remove it from lost mode rather than do 
this. In any event, this isnt what he said initially. When Assurant spoke to Mr F by phone on 
22 July, he went through the circumstances in some detail, and the information he gave then 
didnt match the other evidence it had obtained. There are a number of discrepancies  for 
example he said he put the phone in lost mode and did not turn it off, but hes since said he 
removed it from lost mode when he got home. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think his testimony is strong enough to outweigh the 
other evidence that Assurant has. So for these reasons and taking into account all the 
information Assurant considered, in my judgment its decision was fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman