DRN-3550665
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (SCUK), trading as Santander Consumer Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SCUK, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SCUK, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was about 
two years old and had completed about 17,500 miles when it was supplied to Mr A, so I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect much wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when SCUK were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But here, as the car failed after about 11 
months the relevant legislation puts the onus on Mr A to demonstrate the fault was most 
likely present, or in this case developing, when the car was supplied to him
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether goods are of satisfactory 
quality we should consider if theyve been durable. Im persuaded here that Mr A has 
provided sufficient evidence to suggest the car has not been durable. I say that because I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect such significant issues on a car that has only 
completed about 26,000 miles. The turbo has needed replacing, as has the start/stop battery 
and theres a misfire on two cylinders that needs further expensive investigation.
I think thats sufficient evidence that the car hasnt been durable and hasnt therefore been of 
satisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair a vehicle that has been 
of unsatisfactory quality. SCUK say they havent had that opportunity as Mr A didnt report 
the matter to them until after hed approved the first repair attempt.
I dont think thats fair. Mr A has explained that the supplying dealership had referred him to 
another main franchised dealership as theyd experienced a fire and couldnt help him. In 
those circumstances, I think if Mr A had told SCUK that the car needed attention they would 
have been likely to send him to the dealership the supplier had suggested  the one he did 
attend. 
So, I think the outcome would have been likely to be the same. That dealership didnt 
resolve the issue for Mr A and failed to corroborate the misfiring that the roadside assistance 
engineer had identified. Mr A subsequently paid £144 for a diagnostic at another garage who 
were able to corroborate the faults. So, I think there is sufficient evidence that there has 
been a first repair attempt and that that attempt has failed. In those circumstances MBFS 
should now allow Mr A to reject the car.
Putting things right
SCUK should collect the car at no cost to Mr A and they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr A has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr A has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. I 
think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. 
So, SCUK should refund the £144 that report cost Mr A. Theyll need to add interest to that 
refund too.
Mr A has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to a 
dealership on a couple of occasions and has had to arrange for assistance from the 
emergency call out service. Hes also had to arrange his own diagnostic report and escalate 
his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances SCUK should pay him £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced.
It was reasonable for Mr A to stop using the car in March 2022 after he was warned 
continued use could damage the car further. So, SCUK should refund any finance 
instalments hes paid since the car broke down on 11 March 2022. Theyll need to add interest to that refund.
It's only fair that Mr A pays for the use hes had from the car so Im not asking SCUK to 
refund any payments he made towards his agreement before the 11 March 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr A.
Refund Mr As deposit/part exchange contribution and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid since 11 March 2022 in respect of lack of use 
and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Refund the £144 Mr A paid to have the faults diagnosed and add 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr As credit file in 
relation to these issues. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman