DRN-4273877
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Santander UK Plcs (Santander) requests for her to provide 
information and the subsequent closure of her account. 
What happened
In late 2022 Mrs W received requests for her to provide documents so that Santander could 
adhere to its Know Your Client (KYC) obligations. Mrs W says she provided Santander with 
the necessary information and was assured Santander had all the information it needed. 
Mrs W says that she then received further requests for similar information  and eventually 
Santander applied blocks to her account. Mrs W says she initially was paid £30 by 
Santander to apologise for the error.  
Mrs W raised a complaint, and Santander issued a final response letter on 28 November 
2022, confirming that all blocks had now been removed and it paid Mrs W a further £100 to 
apologise for the errors made.
In early 2023, Mrs W received a letter informing her that Santander had decided it would 
close her account on 30 March 2023. Mrs W contacted Santander to understand why her 
account was being closed, and subsequently raised a complaint.
Santander issued a final response letter on 21 February 2023 and acknowledged that its 
decision to withdraw Mrs Ws account was caused by an error. It confirmed that it wont be 
closing Mrs Ws account. To apologise for the error, Santander paid Mrs W £150.
Despite the assurances that Mrs Ws account wouldnt be closed, Santander closed Mrs Ws 
account on 3 April 2023. This resulted in Mrs W not having access to her money and also 
resulted in her Direct Debits being cancelled too.
Mrs W complained to Santander and the account was reopened on 6 April 2023. 
Santander issued a final response letter on 11 April 2023. Santander said that Mrs Ws 
account had been reopened and the existing Direct Debits had been activated. Santander 
said that new debit cards had been ordered for Mrs W. To apologise for the error, Santander 
paid Mrs W a further £250.
Mrs W raised a further complaint, as the account closure led to her not receiving cash back 
on her account. Santander issued another final response letter on 6 June 2023, and paid 
Mrs W £6, which reflected the amounts of cashback that Mrs W had received in March and 
May 2023. It also paid a further £30 to apologise for the added inconvenience caused to 
Mrs W.
After Mrs W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
investigators assessed the complaint. In summary the investigator felt that the total amount 
of compensation that Santander had paid to Mrs W for what had happened was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs W disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons.
Its not in doubt that Santander made a number of errors when dealing with Mrs Ws account 
 most of which seem to stem from Santander not recognising that Mrs W had complied with 
the KYC requests in late 2022. So, all that is left for me to consider is whether the redress 
already paid by Santander is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In total, Santander has paid Mrs W £560 compensation, plus £6 in cash back. I have 
considered this award alongside everything that has happened and have carefully 
considered what Mrs W has said.
Mrs W says that Santander treated her with utter contempt and, despite raising a number of 
complaints, Mrs W says it only responded to one of them. 
Firstly, I can certainly see why Mrs W has been exasperated with Santander and I have 
great deal of sympathy for the circumstances that Mrs W experienced. Santander got a 
number of things wrong  especially closing the account despite its prior assurances that it 
wouldnt  all of which seem to have been completely avoidable. 
But I disagree with Mrs Ws point that Santander has ignored her complaints and only dealt 
with one of them. Santander issued final response letters addressing her concerns on 
28 November 2022, 21 February 2023, 11 April 2023 and 6 June 2023. And to be fair to 
Santander, it accepted it was at fault in each one and paid varying levels of compensation on 
each occasion, to apologise for its errors.
In terms of the amount of time that Mrs Ws account was closed, which seems to have been 
the mistake with the greatest consequences to Mrs W, I note that it was closed on 3 April 
2023 and took three days for it to be reopened. Although it was opened in a relatively short 
space of time, I recognise that it wouldve been distressing for Mrs W not to have access to 
her account in this time. Mrs W says that she had to borrow money to cover her outgoings, 
which resulted in her paying £75 and £50 in borrowing costs to two different lenders. Mrs W 
also says that she went without food in that time.
I recognise that having to take such measures wouldve been very distressing and 
inconvenient to Mrs W. But equally, the amounts of compensation that Santander has 
already paid to Mrs W exceed the costs she incurred to borrow money by a fair amount. 
Mrs W says that although the account was reopened on 6 April 2023, as that was the day 
before the Easter weekend, she says she did not have access to her account until 
11 April 2023. However, although the timing was clearly unfortunate, given that Mrs W was 
made aware her account had been reopened on the morning of 6 April 2023, I think she had 
a reasonable opportunity to access her money, if needed, on 6 April 2023. For example, 
although Mrs W says she had no money to pay for the bus or a taxi, and no insurance for 
her car, Im sure she couldve asked for friends or family to take her to her local branch. Or if 
that was not a viable option, alternatively, Mrs W couldve arranged for a taxi to take her to 
the bank and she pay for the taxi once shed withdrawn money.
Mrs W has said that she was unable to reinstate the Direct Debits until she received new 
debit cards  which she says she received on 17 April 2023. But Mrs W wouldve been able 
to set up Direct Debits without needing a new debit card and couldve done so as soon as 
her account had been reopened. This is because shed only need to provide her account 
details to the originator to do so. So, I cant say that the delay in the debit cards being 
reissued prevented her from reinstating any Direct Debits (that Santander had not already 
reinstated). And although Mrs W was initially provided with a cash card, rather than a debit 
card (which I understand were then sent to her a short time later), this wouldve still allowed 
Mrs W to access the money in her account. Mrs W has also said that she was without the use of her car for a month due to the Direct 
Debit being cancelled. I recognise that she may not have been able to use her car in the 
time that the account was closed, and I have taken that into account when considering if the 
redress already paid to her is fair. But its not clear why Mrs W was without the use of her car 
for so long. The account was only closed for a few days. And as mentioned above, Mrs W 
wouldve been able to reinstate any cancelled Direct Debits for payments such as car 
insurance, from 6 April 2023. 
Taking everything into account, its not in doubt that Santander got things wrong. And its 
clear that Mrs W was impacted by its errors - whether that be inconvenience in speaking with 
Santander a number of times to get matters rectified, or more seriously, being without money 
for a few days and her Direct Debits being cancelled.
But overall, I think that the £560 in compensation that Santander has paid Mrs W in total, 
plus the £6 that Santander paid her for the cashback she missed out on, is fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman