DRN-3189319
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from DAS Legal Expenses Insurance
Company Limited (DAS) when he made a claim under his home emergency policy when a
boiler breakdown left him without hot water.
References to DAS in this decision include references to its claims administrators.
What happened
Mr C contacted DAS on 12 April 2021 to report that his boiler wasnt providing hot water. He
is the carer for a vulnerable family member, so this was classed as a priority. A DAS
engineer attended the same day and identified that the problem lay with a blocked heat
exchanger. It was recommended that he had his hot water system power flushed.
DAS says it attempted to contact Mr C by phone the following day to confirm the next steps
and to advise him that an engineer would not attend again until a power flush had been done
and that as a power flush wasnt covered by his policy, hed have to pay for this privately. It
says that as it wasnt able to speak to Mr C on the phone, it left a voicemail message with
this information.
Mr C didnt hear any more from DAS, so contacted it on 15 April to complain about the lack
of communication. Mr C said hed been under the impression that the engineer would be
returning to finish the repair and that someone would be contacting him to do the power flush
that had been recommended. Mr C said he didnt receive the voicemail message left on 13
April.
DAS issued a final response letter on 16 April. Its position is that it had recommended a
system clean before the heat exchanger plate could be cleaned, and that as a power flush
wasnt covered by his policy, Mr C would have to arrange for this privately.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that DAS shouldve
agreed to undertake the power flush as part of the repair as the policy doesnt specifically
exclude power flushing.
DAS doesnt agree with our investigators view. It accepts that the policy doesnt specifically
exclude power flushing, but says it doesnt need to as the build-up of sludge is something
which occurs over time and is a routine maintenance issue and not a sudden event, and his
policy doesnt cover routine maintenance.
Mr C says hes still without hot water as he believes its DASs responsibility under his policy
to fix it.
As DAS didnt agree with our investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was referred to me
to make a final decision from this service. I issued a provisional decision as my view differs 
from that of our investigator. Both DAS and Mr C have commented on my provisional 
decision and Ive taken those comments into account in coming to this, my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Cs policy.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the lack of hot water meets the definition of an emergency.
Emergency - The sudden or unexpected occurrence of an insured incident during the
period of cover, which necessitates immediate corrective action to:
(a) 
(b) 
(c) relieve unreasonable discomfort, risk or difficulty to an insured person.
Insured person is defined as You and any person who lives in or is staying at your
home. This would therefore include Mr Cs vulnerable family member.
Secondly, Im satisfied that the policy covers the loss of hot water as the policy expressly
covers the Main heating system, and this is defined as The main hot-water or central 
heating system in your home.
The policy includes the following exclusions upon which DAS relies:
What is not insured?
Claims related to normal day to day home maintenance
Home maintenance
Normal day-to-day home maintenance that an insured person should carry out or pay
for (such as servicing of heating and hot-water systems).
The policy also includes the following condition:
Keeping to the policy terms
An insured person must:
(a) 
(b) maintain your home in a reasonable condition, carry out any inspections or services
of fittings in accordance with the manufacturers instructions and complete any
necessary maintenance to the structure of your home;
Unlike some other home emergency policies, Mr Cs policy doesnt expressly say that the
cost of a power flush is excluded. DAS says that it is. It argues that the build- up of sludge
that needs to be removed by a power flush is a gradual process and is covered by the
obligation to undertake normal day to day home maintenance.
In my view, power flushing cant reasonably be regarded as normal day to day home
maintenance. It cant be considered, for example, as equivalent to annual servicing. Mr Cs
boiler had last been serviced in October 2020, some six months before his boiler broke
down. Had that service disclosed the presence of sludge and if a power flush had been
recommended at that time, in my view a failure to follow that recommendation would amount
to a failure to maintain. And Mr Cs policy does contain the following exclusion:
Failure to carry out previously recommended repairs
Any insured incident which arises from an insured persons failure to carry out work or
repairs that an insured person has previously been advised to undertake to avoid the
insured incident occurring or recurring.
As theres no suggestion that Mr C had previously received advice to have a power flush, Idont consider it can be said that hed failed to maintain his boiler.
So as my view is that a power flush is not normal day to day maintenance, the blockage in
the heat exchanger should be considered to be a repair that is covered by Mr Cs policy. If
DASs diagnosis is correct, cleaning or replacing the heat exchanger should restore Mr Cs
hot water, thereby alleviating the emergency.
I dont consider that DAS has dealt fairly with Mr C in requiring him to have his system power
flushed as a condition of it cleaning or replacing the heat exchanger. I consider that the loss
of hot water was an emergency for Mr C and that DAS shouldve done what was necessary
to restore his hot water either by cleaning or replacing the heat exchanger. That wouldve
addressed the emergency.
I accept that this would not be a permanent repair whilst there was still sludge in the system,
and this would need to be addressed by Mr C as a maintenance matter, and outside his
policy. A power flush might be necessary. If Mr C didnt address this, DAS could decline any
further claims. But Mr C would then have the opportunity to obtain quotes for having this
done, and time to make any necessary arrangements.
Im therefore partially upholding Mr Cs complaint and am requiring DAS to undertake
the necessary repair to get Mr Cs boiler operational (subject to any other policy terms and 
conditions), but without the pre-condition that he previously arrange for a power flush at his 
expense.
I also agree with our investigator that there was an initial delay in communicating with Mr C
as to DASs position on Mr Cs complaint for which compensation of £100 for his
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable. 
I dont consider that it is appropriate to require DAS to pay compensation for the fact that Mr 
C continues to be without hot water from his boiler as it wouldve been reasonable for Mr C 
to have had it repaired by a third party and then sought to have the cost of this reimbursed to 
him by DAS.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited to undertake the necessary repair to Mr Cs boiler to restore the supply of hot water 
as soon as possible (subject to any other policy terms and conditions), and to pay him £100 
compensation unless such sum has already been paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman