DRN-1716783
The complaint
Mr H complained about the advice he received from one of The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited's advisers.
What happened
In 1981 Mr H took out a Pure Endowment policy with another company. The sum insured if 
Mr H survived until 1 March 2014 was £33,571 (with profits). The cost of the policy was £40 
a month.
In 1986, upon receiving advice from one of Prudential's advisers, Mr H took out a retirement 
annuity policy with Prudential. The cost was £45 a month, for a guaranteed annuity of 
£1,791.71. The quotation gave projections of a total pension payable (ie including bonuses) 
upon Mr H's retirement of £21,233.25 per year; or a lump sum payment of £42,080 and a 
pension of £12,146 per year. The paperwork made it clear that bonuses weren't guaranteed. 
Mr H increased his monthly contribution several times over the years upon the advice of the 
adviser.
Mr H stopped paying for the endowment policy in 1986 when the new policy started. When it 
stopped the sum insured if Mr H survived until 1 March 2014 was £5,172 (with profits).
Mr H retired in 2013 and started receiving an annuity. He complained to Prudential in 2019 
because he thought the policy had been mis-sold. He said the policy didn't achieve anything 
near what he was promised and that he'd lost money in comparison to the original policy he 
held. He also wanted to know how much commission had been paid to the adviser. 
Prudential looked into the matter but didn't think the policy had been mis-sold. It also said 
the adviser was a salaried employee, and it didn't know how much commission he received.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She said the adviser was 
required to advise with reasonable care and skill and not make negligent statements, and 
she hadn't seen anything to suggest the adviser didn't do this. She also said the fact the 
original investment might have performed better over the years didn't automatically mean the 
advice was inappropriate - the adviser had no way of knowing how either policy would 
actually perform. Our investigator didn't think the level of commission paid to the adviser 
affected this.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He felt he was conned by the adviser into cancelling 
his initial policy and taking out the new one. He said he paid around £65,000 into the 
Prudential policy and the fund value was £117,648; which compared to paying around 
£2,400 into the original policy and receiving just over £33,000. He also said he receives just 
over £7,000 a year for his pension, which given that he paid £65,000 into the policy in the 
first place means he's effectively paying his own pension for the first nine years. Mr H also 
asked why Prudential wouldn't tell him how much commission it paid to the agent.
What Ive decided  and whyI've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide this complaint taking account of the practices in 1986. This is important 
because I can't, for example, look at what advisers need to do now and apply those 
standards to a sale in 1986. I also confirm that I've noted the various points Mr H has made 
in his submission to us and Prudential. However, I've only concentrated on what I think the 
important points are in order to decide this complaint.
The regulatory requirements in 1986 were far less stringent than they are now. In essence, 
an adviser had to:
not make negligent mis-statements
where information was given, disclose all material information, and
where advice was given, advise with reasonable care and skill.
 
The paperwork available from the time is limited; and apart from what Mr H has said I 
haven't seen anything specifically detailing what advice was given. However, it seems most 
likely that Mr H was advised to stop paying into his original policy and to start paying into the 
Prudential one. But even if I work on that basis, I don't think there's sufficient evidence 
available either way to show whether or not the adviser made negligent statements, 
disclosed all material information and/or advised with reasonable care. He might have; but 
he might not have either.
I accept that might seem unsatisfactory to Mr H. But in order to uphold this complaint I have 
to be persuaded that it's more likely than not the adviser didn't adhere to the necessary 
requirements. I can't fairly reach that conclusion when there's insufficient evidence either 
way - at best, one scenario is just as likely as the other; rather than being more likely than 
the other. It's also the case that it was generally seen as being good advice for someone to 
have a pension, Mr H seemed to be able to afford it, and the Prudential policy looked at the 
time like the better option. I haven't seen any information to make me think that Mr H 
shouldn't have taken out the policy. 
There is an argument that as the adviser advised Mr H to stop paying into his existing policy 
he should have checked any potential features that policy had. But Mr H has told us that he 
gave the adviser copies of the relevant documentation and the adviser took that away with 
him to work out if the Prudential policy was better. So, given that, I conclude that the adviser 
most likely checked Mr H's existing arrangements and took them into account in the advice 
he gave.
Much of Mr H's argument is based on the original policy performing better over the years. 
That, in my opinion, doesn't in itself automatically mean the advice given was inappropriate. 
Mr H provided us with a copy of the quote he received in 1986 from the adviser, and the 
projections detailed in it (outlined above) were favourable compared to the projection for the 
original policy. I haven't seen anything to show that the quote was inaccurate based on what 
was known and expected at the time. And of course, it was (and remains) impossible for 
anyone to predict with any degree of certainty how any investment will perform in the future.
Over the years Mr H was advised by Prudential's adviser to increase the amount he was 
paying into his pension. At least two of those occasions was when the adviser no longer 
worked for Prudential, so it isn't responsible for that advice. Nevertheless, the advice to keep 
paying into a pension doesn't seem unreasonable in order to increase income in retirement.The pension landscape was different during Mr H's working life to what it is now. At the time, 
people built up their pension pot by regularly paying into it over their working life. They then 
used that pot to buy an annuity to provide them with an income for the rest of their life. 
There's a risk to both parties when an annuity is purchased. Generally, if a person lives a 
long life the business will probably lose out financially because they will pay more in annuity 
payments than what they received when the person bought the annuity. On the other hand, if 
a person dies shortly after buying the annuity the business will probably 'gain' because they 
will pay out less than what they received. So I'm not persuaded by Mr H's argument about 
him effectively paying his pension for the first nine years - that happens for everyone when 
they buy an annuity.
Regarding the commission paid to the adviser, I think this is a case of Prudential simply not 
having the information rather than it not being open. Prudential told Mr H (in a letter dated 6 
August 2019) that it only kept commission records for six years. I think that's reasonable. 
The sale was nearly 35 years ago and the policy ended in 2013 when Mr H bought the 
annuity. In any event, the fact the adviser might have received commission payments 
doesn't mean the advice that was given was flawed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman