DRN-2107132
The complaint
Mr A complains that a finance agreement he entered into with Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
Mr A has explained that his English isnt the best and I understand he feels he was 
taken advantage of. I think its reasonable to suggest that, regardless of his Mr As 
English skills he would have wanted to understand the arrangement he was entering 
into and I think it was his responsibility to do so.
I think the finance agreement and the pre-contract information he was provided with 
explained the financial details and the term of the agreement in sufficient detail to 
enable Mr A to understand what he was agreeing to. He was also provided with a 
reasonable time frame in which he could cancel the arrangement. 
Ive seen that Mr A wrote to the dealership, within the first 14 days, asking to cancel 
the agreement and return the car. Whilst he wasnt able to return the car he would 
have been able to cancel the finance agreement at that time. But the finance 
agreement explained he needed to contact BMF, and not the dealership, in order to 
do that. 
I can understand that consumers may be confused about the need to write to the 
finance company to cancel the finance agreement and, in those circumstances, I 
would expect the finance company to be understanding, and for their agents in the 
finance negotiation (the dealership) to pass on the consumers concerns.
But here Im not persuaded that was necessary because in Mr As letter to the 
dealership of 24 December 2019 he explained that I have notified the finance 
company. So, I think it was clear that he understood the need to do so and that the 
dealership would not have thought it necessary to pass on his concerns to BMF 
because hed suggested hed already done so.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence that Mr A did contact the finance 
company within the first 14 days. Ive reviewed the businesses case notes and can 
see that his first contact was on 9 January 2020. And, as that was more than 14 days 
after the agreement started, Mr A no longer had the right to withdraw.
So, I dont think BMF have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman