DRN-1803668
The complaint
Miss M complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M took out two loans with 118 118 Money as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Principal 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 9.10.2015 24.11.2015 12 £1,300 £150.34
2 7.12.2015 Outstanding 24 £1,050 £101.24
Miss M brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with 118 118 Money. 
In summary, Miss M said that she couldnt afford the loan repayments and that 118 118 
Money should have seen this from the checks it did and realised that she wouldnt be able to 
make the repayments without hardship. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that 118 118 Money should have provided either of these loans 
to Miss M and upheld her complaint. 
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what 118 118 Money needed to do to 
put things right. 
118 118 Money accepted what our adjudicator said about loan 2 and agreed to uphold this 
part of Miss Ms complaint. 
But 118 118 Money disagreed with out adjudicators view about loan 1. It mainly said that the 
reason for this loan was debt consolidation so it would have freed up more disposable funds 
for Miss M and the loan amount was enough to settle a lot of the smaller balances on 
Miss Ms credit file (it said nearly 40%).
So, as the complaint hasnt been fully settled, it comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since 118 118 Money has already agreed to settle Miss Ms complaint about loan 2 in line 
with our adjudicators recommendation, I do not need to say more about the merits of this 
part of her complaint. In my decision, I will be looking at Miss Ms irresponsible lending 
complaint about loan 1. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 118 118 Money was 
required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan was 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or check the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks are done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information 118 118 
Money relied on when it decided to lend to Miss M. 
what checks did 118 118 Money do before agreeing to lend to Miss M?
118 Money asked Miss M about her income and expenses and gathered information about 
what she was spending her money on. 
It looked at her payslip to verify her income and asked to see bank statements to check her 
spending. 
It also carried out credit checks to find out information about her credit commitments. 
Miss M told 118 118 Money that she was living with her parents and the loan was for debt 
consolidation - in other words, that she would use it to pay off other debt in order to help 
reduce her monthly outgoings.
118 118 Money worked out that Miss M would still have around £170 left after paying all her 
expenses as well as the monthly repayment of £150.34 on its loan. 
So it felt this loan was affordable for Miss M.
did 118 118 Money do proportionate checks? 
Thinking about the amount of this loan and the loan term, and bearing in mind the 
information it could see, I dont think that the checks 118 118 Money carried out were proportionate. And I dont think that 118 118 Money properly took into account the 
information it had gathered.
I say this because the bank statements Miss M provided to 118 118 Money didnt show all 
the transactions it shouldve expected to see, bearing in mind it knew from its credit check 
that Miss M was already paying other creditors. Payments to creditors dont appear on the 
bank statements Miss N showed to 118 118 Money.
And 118 118 Money could see on the bank statements it did have that Miss M had another 
bank account into which she transferred a substantial part of her salary. 118 118 Money 
didnt have bank statements for Miss Ms other account so it had no details about her 
spending on that account. 
I think this shouldve prompted 118 118 Money to carry out further checks to ensure that it 
had a proper understanding of Miss Ms actual financial situation  given that it had collected 
evidence that indicated key information was missing from its affordability assessment. 
what would proportionate checks have revealed to 118 118 Money? 
Ive seen Miss Ms bank statements for her other account. These include information about 
the credit payments she was making along with her other regular expenditure. And this gives 
me a useful insight into her overall financial situation  and its information that I think 118 
118 Money wouldve likely found out if it had done proportionate checks. 
As far as I can see, in reality Miss Ms actual monthly spending left her with around £253 
spare cash. 
So, after I've taken into account the loan monthly repayments of £150.34 on loan 1, like our 
adjudicator, I think Miss M appeared to be left with a monthly surplus of around £100.
I dont think thats enough for me to be able to say that this loan was likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Miss M, bearing in mind that she expected to have to make these loan 
repayments for the next 12 months. 
I've taken into account that Miss M told 118 118 Money that the purpose of this loan was to 
pay off other debt.
118 118 Money hasnt shown me it knew which debt was going to be repaid. And the 118 
118 Money loan was paid into Miss Ms bank account, so it didnt have to be used to pay off 
other credit. 
Miss Ms recent borrowing track record suggested she was repeatedly borrowing. 
The fact Miss M had taken out several recent loans and she had credit cards at or over their 
limit (which 118 118 Money could see from the credit checks it did) looks to me like a sign 
she was facing financial difficulties. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think 118 118 Money could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Miss M wouldnt put her in a worse position by 
increasing her overall debts. 
Given her recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Miss M might use this loan to help her 
meet her immediate need to make other credit repayments and not fully pay off any of her 
debts with the result this loan would simply add to her existing debt. And even if Miss M had used this loan to fully repay some existing debt, I dont think 118 118 
Money was able to safely say this wouldve improved her overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation, given the 
amount she owed. 
I think the concerns Ive mentioned are borne out by the fact that theres no clear information 
showing that Miss M used this loan for its stated purpose  in fact, she repaid it the very next 
month (apparently using other borrowing to do this) and her credit commitments had 
increased (in number and amount) by the time she applied for loan 2 a couple of months 
later. 
So I think this supports my view that loan 1 wasnt sustainable for Miss M and if 118 118 
Money had done proportionate checks as it shouldve done then it wouldve realised this - 
and not provided loan 1 to Miss M in these circumstances. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about loan 1.  
Putting things right
118 118 Money has confirmed that it closed loan 2 in line with our adjudicators view letter  
although it didnt at that stage arrange to pay the refund to Miss M, pending my decision on 
this loan.
I dont know if that has happened yet  so, I will set out here all the steps 118 118 Money 
should do in relation to both upheld loans so that it is clear to both parties what still needs to 
happen:
118 118 Money should:
A) refund everything paid over the principal amount on loan 1 and add 8% simple 
interest* (total amount A)
B)  Remove outstanding interest on loan 2 and treat all payments as payments 
towards the principal. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
C) If not, the lender can use the refund of (A) to reduce the principal owing on 
loan 2. 
Any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to loan 1 and loan 2 
should be removed (in the event of a continuing balance on loan 2 adverse information 
recorded on this loan should be removed when the loan is repaid).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Miss M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman