DRN-3935139
The complaint
Ms T is a sole trader, trading as S. She complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
failed to renew her business insurance policy and wrongly turned down her claim when her 
business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Ms Ts husband, Mr T, has brought the complaint on her behalf. For ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as being from Ms T.
What happened
In early March 2020 Ms T arranged for Hiscox to add business interruption insurance to her 
existing commercial insurance policy, which had been due to renew in July 2020. Ms T 
claimed under the policy when the Governments March 2020 restrictions impacted her 
business. The outcome of that claim and Ms Ts complaint that Hiscox mis-sold the business 
interruption insurance cover has been subject to binding arbitration. I will include some 
information about that in this decision for background purposes only. 
The arbitration concluded in July 2021. Ms T contacted Hiscox to cancel the direct debit 
instruction for her policy. In August 2021 she made a claim to Hiscox for business loss 
following the restrictions introduced by the Government in response to the pandemic in 
November 2020 and again in December 2020, which for ease Ill refer to as lockdown two 
and lockdown three. 
In the meantime, Ms T asked our service to investigate her complaint that Hiscox had 
mis-sold her the March 2020 business interruption insurance cover. Hiscox said that this 
issue had been settled in the binding arbitration agreement. After seeking her own legal 
advice, Ms T accepted that this was correct and confirmed that she would not pursue this 
issue with this service. We later closed the complaint file and marked the complaint as 
withdrawn.
In December 2021 Ms T asked our service also to investigate her complaints that Hiscox 
had not given her any decision on the claim she had submitted in August 2021 for business 
interruption losses caused by lockdown two and lockdown three. Ms T also sent us her 
December 2021 correspondence with Hiscox. In summary, Hiscox had told Ms T that her 
policy had not renewed in July 2020 and also that Hiscox had not issued any renewal 
documents to her. As such, Hiscox declined her claim for lockdown two and lockdown three. 
Hiscox told Ms T that even if her policy had automatically renewed in July 2020, its policies 
after May 2020 did not include cover for communicable disease (which would include 
Covid-19). It said this was in common with most of the insurance industry. 
Ms T did not agree that Hiscox had fairly declined her claim. She said that the 4 March 2020 
extension added to her business interruption insurance policy had an indemnity period of 
12 months, which would cover her from March 2020 when she added the cover to her policy 
until March 2021. As such, she said that the policy should have covered her claim for 
lockdown two and lockdown three. 
Our Investigator did not uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ms T asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
She said, in summary: 
Shed intended to keep the policy running until after the arbitration had concluded, 
and so it was not until August 2021 that she cancelled the direct debit instruction. It 
was only then that Hiscox asked for new bank details as it said that the direct debit 
instruction had been cancelled. She didnt realise the policy had lapsed before this 
time. Hiscox had failed to send her any information about the cancellation and the 
policy was a continuing cover policy that should have renewed automatically. It was 
Hiscoxs fault that the policy had lapsed. 
There had been an unreasonable delay in Hiscoxs response to Ms Ts claim for 
lockdown two and lockdown three. The delay had had a significant impact on her 
ability  as a small business  to survive the pandemic, and her turnover remained as 
zero as at May 2022. 
Hiscox had not acted fairly and reasonably. It had given Ms T mis-information, there 
had been no ongoing or coherent correspondence and there had been constant 
delay. 
Our Investigator told both Ms T and Hiscox that her complaint would be referred to an 
Ombudsman for review. In the meantime, Hiscox sent us its file. In August 2022 Hiscox also 
issued a final response letter to Ms T upholding her complaint. In summary, Hiscox said:  
Ms Ts policy did not automatically renew in July 2020 as it should have done. This 
was due to an error on Hiscoxs part and meant that it did not collect any further 
direct debit payments. 
It did not send Ms T any correspondence regarding the failed renewal and as such 
Hiscox did not make her sufficiently aware that her business was no longer insured. 
Even if the policy had auto-renewed as it should have done, the policy for the 
July 2020 renewal would have had an exclusion for communicable diseases. Hiscox 
had begun to roll out this exclusion to policies that renewed from May 2020 onwards 
and this was a standard approach with other insurers. So Ms Ts claim for lockdown 
two and lockdown three would not have been covered under the policy even if it had 
renewed. 
The 4 March 2020 business interruption extension was for a 12 month indemnity. But 
this was a maximum 12 month duration for a single period of loss from the date the 
that the event first occurred. The addition of the business interruption cover was a 
mid-term adjustment to the existing policy that had ended on 6 July 2020. So, any 
claim for losses would have had to have been made by 6 July 2020. 
It accepted that it had taken it from August 2021 to December 2021 to investigate the 
cover and decline Ms Ts claim for lockdown two and lockdown three. It apologised 
and offered Ms T £300 compensation for this and its error in relation to the renewal of 
the policy. 
It also accepted that it had not investigated and responded to Ms Ts complaints as 
promptly as it should have done. It offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Hiscox offered to reinstate the cover from 6 July 2020, but said that this would be 
under the new policy wording which excluded communicable diseases. It said Ms T 
should let Hiscox know if she wanted to reinstate the cover. Ms T responded to Hiscox and this service to say that she did not accept its offer of £500 by 
way of an apology. She remained of the view that if the policy had auto-renewed then her 
claim for lockdown two and lockdown three would have been covered. She said that Hiscox 
had not told her about any changes to the policy wording. 
As an agreement had not been reached, the complaint came to me for review. In response 
to my initial enquiries:
Ms T said that she was the sole owner of her business, which she ran as a small 
trader. She authorised her husband to represent her in the complaint. She also said 
she had received the £500 compensation payment from Hiscox. 
Hiscox sent us a sample copy of the renewal letter and documents that it would have 
sent to Ms T prior to the policy renewal in July 2020.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I did uphold the complaint but I considered that 
Hiscox had paid Ms T a fair amount of compensation and had taken reasonable other steps 
to put things right. As such, I did not require it to do anything more. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ive explained, Ms T accepts that her complaints about the mis-sale of the March 2020 
business interruption insurance extension to her policy and the outcome of the March 2020 
claim have both been settled in the binding arbitration with Hiscox. For certainty, I confirm 
here that I have not investigated these issues and I make no findings [on] them. 
My findings are confined to the lapsing of the policy, Hiscoxs decision to decline the claim 
for lockdown two and lockdown three and Hiscoxs handling of Ms Ts complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ms Ts business. I am upholding the complaint but I currently consider that Hiscox 
has offered a fair settlement. Ill explain why and in doing so I will focus on the issues 
I consider to be central to this complaint. 
The 12 month indemnity under the 2019/2020 policy 
Ms T says that the cover under the July 2019 to July 2020 policy included a 12 month 
indemnity period and that this 12 months of cover started from the March 2020 mid-term 
adjustment adding the business interruption insurance to her policy. As such, she considers 
that the claim for the November and December lockdowns is covered under the 2019/2020 
policy terms. 
Hiscox has explained that the 12 month indemnity is the maximum period of loss for which it 
would pay a claim under the policy terms. It does not mean that the cover under the policy 
extends beyond the term. I consider Hiscox is correct about the policy cover. 
The claim for the November and December 2020 losses would have been triggered in the 
new policy year  2020/2021. The claim cant be made under the previous years policy 
terms as that policy year ended in July 2020. The 12 month indemnity period does refer to 
the maximum period for which Hiscox would indemnify Ms T for an insured event that had 
occurred during the July 2019 to July 2020 policy year. The policy lapse 
Its now not in dispute that Hiscox allowed Ms Ts policy to lapse due to a systems error. 
Hiscox accepts that Ms T was not aware that the policy had lapsed. It follows that Hiscox did 
not collect the premium for the policy year July 2020 to July 2021 due to its own error. 
Hiscox has offered to reinstate cover and backdate it to July 2021, should Ms T ask it to do 
so. I think this was a reasonable offer because it would have given Ms T continuous 
insurance cover had she continued to trade. 
Hiscox says that Ms Ts claim for lockdown two and lockdown three would not have been 
covered even if the policy had correctly renewed. I think this is correct and Ill explain why. 
The policy renewal terms 
I accept Hiscoxs evidence that the policy would have renewed in July 2020 on different 
terms from Ms Ts original policy, and that Hiscox would have sent a renewal email in line 
with the sample wording it has sent to us. The renewal email said that Hiscox would update 
the policy onto its latest wording and continue to collect payment using the payment details it 
had. It also asked the policyholder to read the important information contained in the email 
and the attached documents, which were the policy, schedule and Summary of Change 
document. 
In the renewal email under the heading Weve made some important changes to your policy 
and documents Hiscox said: 
In respect of Contents, Property Away & in Transitand [sic] Business interruption 
please note the Communicable Disease exclusion which has been added to the 
policy. For Business interruption, this restricts the type of diseases covered to 
Specified Diseases. In light of the current Covid-19 threat, note that this is not a 
Specified Disease. 
The Summary of Change document says under Significant or unusual exclusions and 
limitations that Hiscox will not pay for: 
any interruption to your business caused by any communicable disease or fear or 
threat of communicable disease where the interruption is caused by one of the 
specified diseases at your premises which means that you are unable to use your 
premises. 
The policy wording says that Hiscox will cover business interruption loss due to the 
policyholders: 
inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
during the period of insurance following: 
b. an occurrence of human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority; 
But under What is not covered Hiscox says it will not make any payment: 
1. for any interruption or loss directly or indirectly caused by, or contributed to by, 
resulting from or in connection with any communicable disease or the fear or threat of 
any communicable disease. However, this exclusion does not apply to What is 
covered, Public authority 11b in respect of any specified diseases. I cant see that the words communicable disease are defined in the policy even though they 
are written in bold type. Using the everyday meaning of those words, I consider that Covid-
19 is a communicable disease. 
The policy definition for specified diseases lists ten diseases and the list does not include 
Covid-19. 
So having considered the renewal email, the summary and policy document, I think that 
Hiscox was correct to say that the policy, had it renewed, would not have covered Ms Ts 
claim for business interruption due to lockdown two and lockdown three when she was 
unable to open her business due to the Government restrictions. Her business was impacted 
by Covid-19 but the policy would not have covered any interruption or loss directly or 
indirectly caused by, or contributed to by, resulting from or in connection with Covid-19 or the 
fear or threat of Covid-19. 
Lost opportunity 
I consider that Hiscox was entitled not to renew the policy on the existing terms although it 
was required to highlight any significant changes in the policy renewal documents. 
I think Hiscoxs renewal email with the attached documents would have properly highlighted 
the important change to the business interruption cover, but of course Hiscox did not send 
the email to Ms T. As such she was not aware that the policy cover had changed. She also 
lost the opportunity to consider whether the policy was suitable for her and, if not, to look 
elsewhere. 
It follows that I have considered whether it is likely, on balance, that Ms T could have 
obtained business interruption cover for Covid-19 even if Hiscox had sent her renewal 
documents before her policy was due to renew and she had decided to look to another 
insurer to obtain the cover that Hiscox was not willing to provide. 
In my experience, insurers began withdrawing cover for Covid-19 for new policies as early 
as March 2020 in response to the risk they assessed due to the global pandemic. I dont 
consider that it is likely, on balance, that Ms T could have arranged replacement business 
interruption insurance to cover the impact of Covid-19 even if Hiscox had sent her the 
renewal email. 
If Ms T does not agree and considers that she could (and would) have arranged cover 
elsewhere for business interruption losses due to Covid-19 at the time the policy was due to 
renew then I am willing to consider any comments and evidence she is able to provide in 
response to this decision. She will appreciate that if shed arranged insurance elsewhere she 
would also have had to pay the premium for the 2020/2021 policy year. 
Compensation 
Hiscox has paid Ms T £300 compensation for its error in allowing the policy to lapse and the 
time taken to inform her of the outcome of her claim for lockdown two and three. 
Hiscox also accepts that it took too long to investigate and respond to Ms Ts complaint 
about the handling of her claim. It paid her an additional £200 compensation for this. 
Ms T does not consider the compensation is enough. Shes pointed out that her business did 
not recover from the lockdown periods because Hiscox failed to pay her claim. I have found 
that her claim would not have been successful even if the policy had renewed. Its clear to me that Hiscoxs error in lapsing the policy, the decline of the claim and its delay 
in dealing with the complaint caused Ms T some real frustration, inconvenience and distress. 
She was unaware that the policy terms had changed and Hiscoxs decision came as a 
considerable disappointment to her. It took Hiscox several months to investigate the 
complaint and to make its offer of compensation. 
But I consider £500 to be a substantial amount of compensation. In my view, it reflects 
Hiscoxs errors and delays and is in line with the amount I would have awarded had Hiscox 
not already made its offer to Ms T at the point I reviewed the complaint. Hiscox also properly 
offered to reinstate the policy cover, which I consider was reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, while I uphold the complaint I do not currently intend to require Hiscox to take any 
additional steps to resolve the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Hiscox responded to say that it accepted my proposed outcome in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms T responded to say that she did not accept my provisional decision. In summary, she 
said that £500 was neither reasonable nor substantial compensation for the problems she 
has experienced to include:
Hiscox telling her she would be covered if the business closed (she accepts this 
issue has been settled but she has added it for context).
Cancelling a continuing policy without notification.
Denying claims for lockdowns two and three, which is unjustified due to the outcome 
of the legal action for lockdown one. 
Changing policy terms without notification.
The whole process taking two and a half years. 
Ms Ts business has now ceased, but she had hoped the insurance would help put her back 
in the position she was in before the pandemic. She said that given my provisional decision it 
seemed that Hiscox can change terms or cancel a policy without telling the policy holder. If 
this is not the case, then £500 is not a deterrent from this happening again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Ms Ts business has now ceased. I have considered her comments 
carefully and reviewed the complaint again. But for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision and here I remain of the view that Hiscox has made a fair settlement in this 
complaint, by paying £500 compensation and offering to reinstate the policy. 
As Ms T says, I cannot take into account the outcome of the mis-sale issue and claim for 
lockdown one because that was settled in legally binding arbitration. And part of the 
timescale that Ms T mentions dates back to lockdown one and the claim settled in 
arbitration. Hiscox has not disputed that it cancelled the policy without notice and in error, and, as such, 
would not have notified Ms T of the new policy terms. So, I consider that it was fair for 
Hiscox to offer to reinstate the policy and backdate the cover should Ms T have asked it to 
do so. 
Ms T considers the claims for lockdowns two and three should have been paid. But I do not 
agree that she would likely have been able to make a successful claim for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision. In summary, Hiscox had been entitled to change the policy 
terms and, had Ms Ts policy renewed as it should have done then Covid-19 would not have 
been a specified disease under the new terms. 
I remain of the view that the indemnity period for the earlier policy year of 2019/2020 would 
not have applied to Ms Ts claim in the way that she has suggested. It would have covered 
only a valid claim under the 2019/2020 policy year. Lockdown two and lockdown three 
claims happened in the later part of 2020 and after the policy should have renewed in 
July 2020. So the lockdown two and lockdown three claims would not have been covered 
because they occurred in what would have been the new policy year of 2020/2021, which 
included cover only for specified diseases. Covid-19 was not a specified disease, as Ive 
explained.  
Ms T has not provided anything to suggest that she would have obtained a policy on 
different terms had Hiscox notified her of the change to its policy terms. So, I dont consider 
she has suffered a loss due to the lack of notice. 
I accept that Hiscox has caused Ms T inconvenience and distress in cancelling the policy 
without notice, not telling her of the new policy terms and taking longer than it should have 
done to respond to the claim. I appreciate that Ms T does not agree but I consider £500 to 
be substantial compensation. It is an amount I would have awarded had Hiscox not already 
paid it to Ms T and I assess it to be fair and reasonable for the reasons set out here and in 
my provisional decision. 
Finally, my awards are not intended to be punitive or act as a deterrent because I do not 
have a regulatory role. I consider £500 fairly reflects the inconvenience and distress caused 
to Ms T and so I do not award any additional compensation. I appreciate this will come as a 
considerable disappointment to Ms T.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given in my provisional decision and in this final decision, I uphold 
this complaint but I consider that Hiscox has already paid a reasonable level of 
compensation to Ms T in addition to its apology and offering to reinstate the lapsed policy. It 
follows that I do not require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to do anything further to 
resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman