DRN-3648103
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a boiler partly financed by a fixed sum loan 
agreement with  Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) . She would like the finance agreement cancelled, and her deposit refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mrs L had two issues with her boiler the first being the need to replace the first boiler 
installed and carry out some remedial work. The second related to running costs 
which she feels were misrepresented to her. Novuna considered a Section 75 claim 
for Mrs L. For a Section 75 claim to succeed there needs to be evidence of a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. In terms of breach of contract Novuna investigated 
the claim but couldnt uphold it as remedial work had been carried out, with the boiler 
then receiving the appropriate certification. I think Novunas conclusion was fair in the 
circumstances. 
In terms of a possible claim for misrepresentation Mrs  Ls feels the running costs  
were misrepresented to her. Novuna didnt feel Mrs L provided sufficient evidence of 
this so it didnt uphold her  Section 75 claim on this basis either. I think, based on the 
information Novuna had, which was primarily Mrs Ls recollection that the sales agent 
advised her the costs would be £20 per week, its conclusion  was reasonable.
 I have carefully considered all the information Mrs L has provided in relation to 
running costs and I am afraid I cant agree the boiler was mis-sold to her on this 
basis. I have seen a document on the typical running costs given to Mrs L  - this 
shows typical running  costs for two different sized properties but does state running 
costs can vary due to a variety of factors such as use and insulation. I think typical 
running costs can only ever be a rough guide since usage could vary enormously 
between two similar properties simply based on lifestyle alone.
I appreciate Mrs L  provided an electricity bill  to show extra costs but I understand 
the new boiler was an electric one replacing a gas one . So, if pervious heating and 
hot water were provided by a gas boiler I would expect Mrs Ls electricity bill to 
increase on installing an electric boiler. I also think as Mrs L sold her property 7 
months after the first boiler was installed , and 2 months after the replacement was 
installed she didnt have enough use of the new boiler to show any ongoing increase.
Mrs L has provided us with information on undertakings by the company she bought 
the boiler from to her local council trading standards team. She feels this 
demonstrates the companys poor sales practice. But this information relates to the 
sale of heaters not boilers so its not relevant to Mrs Ls complaint. The document 
does give some general undertaking that any money savings claims are supported 
by some qualification . I think in Mrs Ls case she had that qualificator in the running 
costs document which stressed that  running costs can vary with some examples 
given as to what can affect the running costs.
Finally, Mrs L has sent us Facebook comments on the company she bought the 
boiler from. This information is unsubstantiated and doesnt relate specifically to Mrs 
Ls complaint so its not something I can consider. 
I dont think I can reasonably ask Novuna to cancel Mrs Ls finance agreement and 
refund her deposit as she has asked. I think it fairly didnt uphold her Section 75 as 
the merchant rectified issues with the boiler, and there was no evidence to support 
misrepresentation of running costs.
I have noted that Novuna has offered Mrs L £150 compensation for the delay in 
handling her complaint. I think that is a reasonable level of compensation as Mrs L 
raised her complaint in August 2021 with Novuna issuing its final response letter inf 
February 2022 
 decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
has already made an offer of £150 to settle this complaint which I think is fair in all the 
circumstances
So, in full and final settlement , Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal 
Finance should pay Mrs L £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman