DRN-3178394
The complaint
Mr C complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (BMWFS) have unfairly charged him for excess mileage and a credit arrangement 
fee, under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In November 2014, Mr C acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under the agreement was £13,245.75. Mr C made an initial 
payment of £101, and then had to make 35 monthly payments of £190.25. There was a final 
payment option of £6,486 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement ended in November 2017, and the car was collected from Mr C. But, after 
Mr C handed the car back, BMWFS later charged him £168.21 as he had exceeded the 
mileage allowance on the agreement. They also charged him a £288 credit arrangement fee, 
which they said was payable at the end of the agreement if the car was handed back. 
The agreement set out that Mr C had an annual mileage allowance of 6,000 miles and a total 
mileage allowance of 30,428 miles. The car had already done 12,428 miles prior to Mr C 
acquiring it. The agreement said that if Mr C exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge 
him 5.13 pence for every mile he exceeded the allowance by. 
Mr C didnt think the charges were fair and complained to BMWFS. He said that hed sent a 
letter to voluntary terminate the agreement two months before it was due to finish. Because 
of this, he said he wasnt liable for the excess mileage charge under Sections 99 and 100 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And he wasnt liable for the credit arrangement fee as 
he had chosen to terminate the agreement early. He wanted BMWFS to remove the charges 
and to amend his credit file, so no adverse information was being reported.
BMWFS didnt agree with Mr C. They maintained that he was liable for both charges and 
they wouldnt amend his credit file or remove the charges from Mr Cs name. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that the charge for excess 
mileage was a fair one, taking Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA into account. But she felt 
Mr C had intended to voluntary terminate his agreement, so asked BMWFS to waive the 
credit arrangement fee. She said any applicable charge should still be reported on Mr Cs 
credit file, as it has to be an accurate and fair reflection. 
Neither side agreed. Mr C continued to ask for his credit file to be amended, although he 
was prepared to enter into conversation with BMWFS about the excess mileage if they were 
prepared to waive the credit arrangement fee. BMWFS didnt accept our investigators 
recommendation. 
Because of this, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
26 October 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr C has mentioned Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA to explain why he feels he shouldnt be 
liable for the excess mileage charges. However, these sections are only applicable in the 
case of voluntary termination. In Mr Cs case, Im more persuaded the hire purchase 
agreement reached its end  so I wont comment in this decision why I think Sections 99 and 
100 of the CCA should still apply. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement has a section headed Termination: Your Rights which 
explains what Mr C needs to do to end the agreement. It says You have a right to end this 
agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make your payments toAnd 
Mr Cs agreement and other paperwork shows the address of BMWFS that were responsible 
for setting up the hire purchase agreement, taking the payments each month and managing 
the agreement. Mr C has provided a letter that he says was sent in September 2017, two 
months before the end of his agreement, asking to voluntary terminate the agreement early. 
But this letter wasnt sent to the address shown on his hire purchase agreement, and 
BMWFS didnt take any action to voluntary terminate the agreement. They were in contact 
with Mr C around this time, but those conversations appear to be about the contract ending, 
not the voluntary termination request he sent. 
BMWFS have also provided their contact notes from the times they were contacted by Mr C. 
He was sent an End of Contract letter in early September 2017, and he contacted BMWFS 
once hed got this. At that stage, he confirmed that he would be arranging the collection date 
for the car once his final monthly repayment had been made. A month later, in late 
October 2017, Mr C contacted BMWFS again and arranged a specific date for the inspection 
and collection of the car. This was a month after hes said he wrote to BMWFS to voluntary 
terminate the agreement  but there isnt any mention of his wish to do that in the contact 
notes BMWFS have provided. And Mr C continued to make his monthly repayments even 
after he was under the impression hed asked to terminate the agreement early. 
Im satisfied from what Ive been provided that Mr C allowed the agreement to come to an 
end, and he was happy to do so. I think he would have told BMWFS that hed written to 
voluntary terminate his agreement when he spoke to them in October 2017 to arrange the 
collection of the car  I also think he would have questioned why BMWFS had taken the final 
monthly repayments if hed intended to voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car 
early. 
Its also clear from the evidence provided from both sides that the car was in Mr Cs 
possession until the end of the agreement. I havent seen anything from Mr C to suggest it 
wasnt being used until the agreement ended  which I would expect to see if he was sure 
hed terminated the agreement early. 
When the agreement ended and the car was collected, Mr C had covered 21,279 miles in it. 
This exceeded his total mileage allowance under the agreement by 3,279. As the car 
handed back having covered more miles than the hire purchase agreement stipulated, Im 
satisfied BMWFS have charged Mr C fairly for this. I dont intend to require them to anything 
in this regard.
Mr Cs hire purchase agreement also explains when the credit arrangement fee will be 
charged, and at what time during the agreement. There is a section titled Your Repayments 
and within that section it says  The Optional Final Repayment Includes the Credit 
Arrangement Fee part 2 and the Purchase Fee and is payable 1 month after the last monthly 
Repayment, unless you return the Vehicle at the end of this agreement in accordance with 
clause 8 (3) in which case the Credit Arrangement Fee part 2 (£288) is payable on this date.Clause 8 (3) tells Mr C everything he needs to know about what will happen and what he will 
be expected to pay if he chooses to return the car at the end of the agreement. One of those 
things is the requirement to pay the credit arrangement fee. As Im satisfied that Mr C 
allowed this agreement to end before returning the car, rather than voluntary terminating it in 
the way that he was required to do, it follows that I think its reasonable for BMWFS to 
charge Mr C the credit arrangement fee. As with the excess mileage charge, I dont intend to 
ask BMWFS to do anything regarding this. 
Mr C has asked for his credit file to be amended so any late payments arent recorded. 
BMWFS are required to report an accurate and fair reflection of Mr Cs history during this 
hire purchase agreement. And as Im satisfied theyre acting fairly by asking for the excess 
mileage and credit arrangement fee to be paid, I dont intend to ask them to make any 
adjustments to Mr Cs credit file. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C.
BMWFS responded to the provisional decision and didnt have any additional information for 
me to consider. Mr C didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any additional information following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from my findings within it. 
Overall, Im satisfied BMWFS havent treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman