DRN-3862185
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his car insurance policy after his car was stolen. But when 
Advantage looked to settle the claim Mr H wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, he 
complained to Advantage about this.
Advantage looked to value Mr Hs car by looking at the various trade valuation guides in 
order to gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy Advantage looked at the 
valuations again and increased its valuation to around £20,790. But Mr H remained unhappy 
as he thought his car was worth about £7,000 more than it offered and he thought it hadnt 
taken into account the optional extras on his car. And as he still wasnt happy he complained 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She looked at the 
various motor trade guides and thought Advantages offer seemed fair in the circumstances. 
She did ask for a bespoke valuation of Mr Hs car but was satisfied this was generally in line 
with Advantages offer. So, she thought Advantage had acted reasonably and offered a fair 
market value of Mr Hs car.
Mr H didnt agree, maintaining that he couldnt buy a car for the money Advantage offered 
and that the cost for his car should be higher than the trade guide valuations. So the matter 
has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, who simply feels his car is worth more than Advantage has offered, 
but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Hs general position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than 
Advantage has offered him. But this service has an established approach to valuation cases 
like Mr Hs. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I 
consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances.
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars and I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr H doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth about £7,000 more 
than Advantage has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the 
second-hand market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied Advantage has acted fairly.
I say this as Advantage looked to increase its valuation following Mr Hs representations and 
the trade valuation guides suggest that the market value it offered is in line with these. And 
Advantage looked at its initial valuation and considered the further information and evidence 
Mr H provided, including reference to his optional extras, and increased its valuation. I can 
also see that it looked at the retail transacted valuations, not the trade prices, which is what 
Id expect. So I cant say it has acted unreasonably here.
Valuing second hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Hs 
car. Im just looking to see if Advantage has acted reasonably in providing a fair market 
value of his car and I think it has. Mr H has made the point about the optional extras on his 
car. But Advantage did go on to consider this and increased their offer, Advantage used the 
trade guide valuations that were from around the time of his claim, so Im satisfied he hasnt 
been prejudiced here and has been offered the market value of his car from around the time 
of loss.
Given all of this, Im satisfied Advantage has looked to value Mr Hs car in a fair and 
reasonable way. And looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Im particularly swayed by the fact that our investigator got a bespoke 
valuation of Mr Hs car, which took account of the precise model and specification of his car, 
and this was also in line with the amount offered by Advantage.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman