DRN-4308000
The complaint
Mr M complained about American Express Services Europe Ltds service in relation to two 
transactions which he said he didnt make. 
What happened
On 19 November 2022, Mr M received a suspicious phone call about his AmEx account. The 
caller knew some of his information, but Mr M didnt give any more information and rang 
AmEx straightaway. Later that day, he received two transaction alerts from AmEx, one for 
£15.97 and the other for £15.98, neither of which he had authorised. He rang AmEx, and 
was told they couldnt yet be disputed because they hadnt been posted to his account. He 
rang again when theyd appeared on his account on 21 November, and raised disputes. 
On 22 and 23 November, AmEx emailed Mr M about the two disputes, saying: We have 
placed the disputed amount under review and therefore, you are not required to pay the 
charge while it is under investigation. The balance on your next statement will reflect the 
amount under review. It may take up to 8 weeks to resolve this matter. We will contact you 
as soon as we have completed the investigation.
On 6 December, Mr M received his statement dated 28 November.  The figure given on the 
first page as closing balance was £841.58, which included the two disputed transactions 
totalling £31.95. At the end of the list of transactions, there was a total showing £841.58 as 
total new spend transactions.  This was followed by separate wording:
ITEMS IN SUSPENSE - These items are currently under review and excluded from the 
minimum repayment requested 
followed by the two transactions for £15.97 and £15.98.  The app showed similar information 
to the statement.
Mr M thought the statement should have made it clear that the lesser amount should be 
paid, and that this amount should have been stated. He contacted AmEx by chat, and said 
that he spent over an hour and had to ask twice for a formal complaint to be raised. 
AmEx sent Mr M an email on 17 December saying one of the transactions would be 
credited, but the other one wasnt mentioned, so he contacted AmEx again, where the chat 
implied the other had been closed. Mr M paid £809.63 which was the balance excluding the 
two disputed transactions. However, when hed done so, the app adjusted to say the 
balance due was now £31.95. Mr M was concerned and Mr M decided to pay this amount for 
the transactions he hadnt authorised.
AmEx replied to Mr Ms complaint in its final response dated 18 January 2023. It said that 
both card members and merchants were AmEx customers, and the dispute process existed 
to help the members and merchants reach a reasonable agreement. It said that a dispute 
was considered resolved once it had all the required information to make an appropriate 
decision, and at that point Mr M would receive confirmation of the outcome. 
In relation to Mr Ms dissatisfaction that the November statement had included the disputed 
transactions, AmEx pointed out that it had told Mr M by email, on 22 November, 23 
November and 6 December that he wasnt required to pay the disputed amount while AmEx 
investigated. AmEx said that the disputed amounts were included on the statement balance 
because it was still part of card usage and balance while the investigation was happening. 
And it pointed out that it had credited Mr Ms account on 17 and 19 December, and it had 
written to advise Mr M of this on 19 December. So it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He set out what had happened, and 
said that Regulation 61 of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 said that the payment 
service provider must immediately a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment 
transaction to the payer and b) where applicable, restore the debited payment account to the 
state it would have been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place. The 
transaction had debited his account on 21 November, and it wasnt until 17 December that 
he received an email saying one disputed transaction would be credited, but there was no 
mention of the other.
Mr M also said that AmEx hadnt complied with the FCA Principles for business, PRIN 7, 
which said that A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr M was also unhappy about the amount of time hed had to spend on the phone to AmEx, 
and that it took him four times to ask for a formal complaint to be raised about the handling 
of the dispute. This was a separate complaint from his complaint that the statement had 
misled him.
Mr M said that hed paid AmEx for transactions which were nothing to do with him, as a 
result of feeling stressed by AmExs unclear and misleading communications, and hed spent 
nearly three hours on phone and chat to AmEx, trying to get the matter resolved. As an 
outcome, he wanted AmEx to:
- acknowledge it was deficient in its handling of the dispute; 
- acknowledge that the statement and app were misleading;
- correct its processes so it couldnt happen again; and 
- pay appropriate compensation for the time spent resolving the issues and stress 
caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He set out the relevant regulations, which 
for transactions taking place in November 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
not the 2009 version. In the 2017 Regulations, the payment service provider must provide a 
refund  as soon as practicable, and in any event no later than the end of the business day 
following the day on which it becomes aware of the unauthorised transaction. The 
investigator explained the regulation within the 2017 Payment Services Regulations which 
deals with the authorisation of payments, and concluded that AmEx was required and 
allowed to establish whether the payment was authorised. It had chosen to do this by raising 
a chargeback. The investigator didnt think this had taken too long, and he also said that 
AmEx had paid Mr M an extra £15.97, for the undisputed transaction, as a gesture of 
goodwill on 19 December.
In relation to communication, the investigator didnt agree that AmExs message was 
unclear. It had sent him messages that he didnt have to pay the amount, and the items in 
suspense were explained on the statement too.
Mr M wasnt satisfied. There were further detailed email exchanges between Mr M and the 
investigator. Mr M also sent in his December statement, which showed a number of 
amendments. The investigator explained that although Mr Ms dissatisfaction with the 
December statement was linked to the original complaint, it was a new issue which hed 
have to raise with AmEx before bringing to us.Mr M said that his great concern was that by not paying the balance shown as outstanding in 
full, interest charges would result. He said there were clearly implications of not paying in 
full, as it might reflect on a credit file, as well as interest being applied if he didnt pay in full. 
He also said that the app used the term due not outstanding which reinforced the fact 
that it needed to be paid.
Mr M explained that his complaint wasnt about the money, but the principle, because AmEx 
had said it would adjust the balance on the statement but it didnt. He thought any 
reasonable person would assume that the amounts would have been deducted from the 
balance showing on the statement, so you wouldnt need to start doing manual calculations 
of your own to work out how much youre meant to be paying. He pointed out that anyone 
who always pays in full will always want to pay the full balance, and he believed that AmEx 
knew this and did it deliberately so that the retail customer carries the cashflow, not AmEx. 
In relation to the communication, he wanted this service to assess whether AmEx was wrong 
to say the statement was clear.
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision.  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. This is what I said in my provisional decision:
Disputed payment 
Ive quoted above the relevant regulation from the 2017 Payment Services Regulations, 
which deals with timescales for a payment service provider (here, AmEx) to refund the 
account holder for unauthorised transactions. Payment service providers need to investigate 
disputed transactions, and its unlikely it will generally be able to do so in full by the end of 
the business day following the day on which it becomes aware of the unauthorised 
transaction. Here, AmEx chose a chargeback to determine whether the disputed payments 
were authorised or not. It was entitled to do that, as a chargeback is one way of 
investigating, though not the sole option. However, payment service providers will generally 
provide a temporary credit in these circumstances, informing the customer what theyve 
done, and pointing out that if the outcome isnt decided in the customers favour, the 
temporary credit will be re-debited.
I explained in my provisional decision that it wasnt entirely clear to me whether thats what 
AmEx did here, as the items on Mr Ms statement are labelled not as credits but as being in 
suspense. It seemed most likely that what AmEx did, instead of issuing temporary credits, 
was to keep the items on the account, but informed Mr M that he didnt have to pay while the 
matter was under investigation  in other words, as a type of concession. In practice this 
came to the same thing as a temporary credit, but I appreciated that a temporary credit 
might have resulted in a different appearance on the statement and app. Im not familiar with 
the detailed workings of AmExs computer systems, and its important to say that this service 
cant comment on a financial organisations processes and procedures.  Thats the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But I explained that I couldnt in any case say that AmEx failed to meet the requirements of 
the Payment Services Regulations in relation to the timing of a refund. Thats because 
AmEx, or any other payment services provider, cant know whether or not a payment has 
genuinely been authorised  and is thereby entitled to the provisions of a refund within the 
set timescales  until it has investigated. I considered that the timescales here were 
reasonable for an organisation to have carried out that investigation in order to determine 
whether or not the payments had or hadnt been authorised by Mr M.
Communication  November statement
AmExs 22 November email to Mr M said We have placed the disputed amount under 
review and therefore you are not required to pay the charge while it is under investigation. 
The balance on your next statement will reflect the amount under review. It may take up to 8 
weeks to resolve the matter. We will contact you as soon as we have completed the 
investigation.
I found that this was clear in terms of Mr M not being required to pay the charge. I didnt,  
however, think that reflect the amount was particularly clear. Include would have been a 
clearer verb in terms of what the account balance would show.
I understood, and sympathized with, Mr Ms frustration that the November statement and 
app didnt show the amount he needed to pay. I particularly sympathised with his comments 
that anyone who pays their balance in full each month would always want to be very clear 
about the amount to pay. In practice, Mr M, who has told us his professional background, 
would be well able to work this out, but I appreciated that this is not the point. 
However, Mr Ms disputed transactions were in the event refunded. This isnt always the 
case. At the time of the November statement, the situation was that the disputed 
transactions had been correctly authenticated (authentication is the technical part of a 
payment, as opposed to authorisation). It would only be when the disputed transaction 
outcome had been determined that Mr M could be sure that AmEx was going to refund him. 
So the precautionary approach, for AmEx as the payment service provider, and for any 
customer, would be to include all correctly-authenticated transactions  until such time as 
they had been proven not to have been authorised. So while I did sympathise with Mr Ms 
position, I couldnt say that AmEx was wrong to include correctly authenticated transactions, 
while it was investigating whether or not they had been authorised by Mr M.
I didnt comment on the December statement, because technically that would count as a 
separate complaint, and it is not demonstrably dealt with in AmExs final response letter of 
18 January 2023. If Mr M wishes to take this further, he will need to obtain AmExs response 
on this statement.
Complaint handling 
The investigator said that this service cant consider how AmEx handled Mr Ms complaint. 
There are detailed rules about this, and we wouldnt be able to consider standalone 
complaint handling about something were not looking at. But here, the complaint handling at 
issue is ancillary to the principle point of Mr Ms complaint. So I found that this service could 
consider AmExs complaint handling in relation to that point. 
I recognised that Mr M was unhappy with many aspects of AmExs handling of his complaint. 
He was unhappy about the length of time it took him on the phone and chat to deal with the 
disputed transactions; the fact he had to ask multiple times to raise complaints; and other 
aspects of handling. I agreed that the service Mr M received from AmEx was less than ideal. 
Mr M had said his complaint wasnt about money, but the principle that AmEx said it would adjust the balance on the statement but didnt. AmEx had also refunded Mr M an extra 
£15.97. Nevertheless, I thought AmEx should pay Mr M a further £50 to reflect its handling of 
his complaint.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part:
- For the reasons set out above, I sympathised with Mr Ms dissatisfaction about the 
clarity of the November 2022 statement, but I considered it was a precautionary 
approach to include the disputed amounts until the investigation had concluded. Its 
not within this services power to order AmEx to change its procedures in relation to 
statements;
- I intended to order American Express Services Europe Ltd to pay Mr M £50 
compensation for the inconvenience of its complaint handling.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted the provisional decision.
AmEx didnt reply to the provisional decision by the date set for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part:
- For the reasons set out above, I sympathise with Mr Ms dissatisfaction about the 
clarity of the November 2022 statement, but I consider it was a precautionary 
approach to include the disputed amounts until the investigation had concluded. Its 
not within this services power to order AmEx to change its procedures in relation to 
statements;
- I order American Express Services Europe Ltd to pay Mr M £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience resulting from its complaint handling.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman