DRN-3614819
The complaint
Mr A complains Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance took too long to settle 
a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
A representative has supported Mr A in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive mainly 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive set out the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
My understanding is on 28 November 2020 Mr A registered a claim after his car caught fire 
and exploded. Mr A understood there were no suspicious circumstances, and it was thought 
an electrical fault was most likely the cause of the incident.
In September 2021, Mr A still hadnt had the outcome of his claim, so he complained 
explaining the delays were causing him financial difficulties.
Across two replies, Soteria said:
The claim was registered on 28 November 2020, and they instructed loss adjusters 
to assess the claim.
The loss adjusters provided their report in December 2020 in which they made 
recommendations. But, Soteria didnt indemnify Mr A, as their claims department had 
some further queries.
On 17 December 2020 they told Mr A they needed forensics and an independent 
engineer to inspect his car to determine how the fire started. They also asked for a 
copy of the fire brigade report, along with evidence of the purchase of the car. They 
said Mr A was unhappy at being asked to share information of his personal finances.
They also instructed the independent engineer to take a formal statement from Mr A, 
and having tried many times to contact him, an appointment was finally made for 
26 March 2021. But Mr A didnt have enough time to complete the interview and sign 
the statement, so a further appointment was made in April 2021.
In May 2021 they received the statements, and in June 2021 Mr A was out of the 
country and said he wasnt able to help with any further enquiries.
They contacted Mr A in August 2021 saying another appointment was needed with 
their investigator. This was arranged for 1 September 2021 but couldnt be completed 
due to an incident with their investigator.
They noted Mr As concerns about the delays, and they were sorry he was having some 
financial difficulties but said they do have to validate his claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators did so and found Soteria had acted fairly up to the point of the date 
of the last response letter from Soteria. This was dated 8 October 2021.
As Mr A wasnt happy with this, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Having reviewed matters I wanted to understand in a bit more detail what Soteria were 
waiting for, and why they needed that, just to help understand the current status of the claim. 
Mr A had been told part of the evidence they were waiting for was a Police report. Mr As 
representative knows how the reporting works for Police in this situation and said he didnt 
think there would be a Police report. He ended up contacting the officer who attended the 
scene of Mr As burnt out car. This officer said they didnt consider there to be anything 
suspicious.
Mr As representative passed this information on to our service, and Soteria. We explained 
wed expect Soteria to now make a prompt decision on the claim. On 20 May 2022, Soteria 
ultimately decided to settle the claim  with the value of £41,500 being offered on 
27 May 2022 which was accepted by Mr A. But he said he wanted 8% interest on a portion 
of the claim, as it should have been settled far sooner, along with compensation, and a 
contribution of 50% towards his representatives fees.
Our service is only allowed to investigate complaints once either a final response has been 
issued, or eight weeks have passed, from a complaint being made  unless the financial 
business involved gives us consent to do so. So, anything that happened after Soterias last 
response of 8 October 2021 isnt something we could automatically consider.
That said, pragmatically I felt itd make sense for us to consider the full claims journey from 
start to finish in one complaint. Soteria told us they wouldnt allow us to consider the full 
claims journey, but then told Mr As representative they would. It seems there was a 
misunderstanding, but Soteria meant to say they would allow us to consider everything. So, 
this decision addresses the full claim journey.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there has been a significant history, the key focus for me to decide is whether 
Soteria have taken longer than they should have, to decide the outcome of this claim.
As a starting point, I need to say that given the purchase price of Mr As car was over 
£50,000 and the unusual circumstances of the incident, Id potentially expect enquiries to 
take longer than for a smaller claim. That said, Id still expect Soteria to have progressed the 
claim as efficiently as possible at every opportunity.
Mr As representative provided a breakdown of what he thought were relatively generous 
timeframes in which to conduct elements of the investigation. Overall, he felt it should only 
have taken a maximum of 34 weeks  but points out it actually took over 70 weeks in total. 
Mr As representative said Soterias staff didnt identify that no crime had taken place, so 
spent 12 months asking for a crime report from the Police which would never be provided. 
I can see from the history of contacts between Soteria and Mr A they were investigating a 
number of factors including:
The reason the car explodedThe source of the funds used to buy the car
Mr As no claims discount (NCD)
Mr As recollections of what happened
Reports from the Fire Brigade and Police
An interview with Mr As relative
Given the value of the claim, and the circumstances, at face value these investigations dont 
seem unreasonable  and I can see they made Mr A aware they were looking into all of 
these issues.
All of Soterias investigations had been completed regarding the reports on the car, the 
source of the funds, Mr As NCD, and his recollections of what happened by 7 May 2021.
From what I can see, the only things that remained outstanding were reports from the Fire 
Brigade and Police  and the interview with Mr As relative.
Mr As relative isnt party to the policy and wasnt present at the time of the incident. So, in 
effect, hes unlikely to have any relevant information that should affect the outcome of the 
claim Soteria were going to reach. Because of that, I dont think it was necessary for them to 
pursue an interview with the family member for the several months that they did.
By 17 May 2021 the Fire Brigade and Police had given verbal reports to Soteria about the 
circumstances they found  theyd discussed the matter with a Police Officer, and heard 
from the Fire Fighters who attended Mr As car as well. I can see Soteria wanted to get a 
copy of the reports they say the Fire Brigade and Police had put together. But I dont see 
why that was necessary, as the two services arent going to give any different information 
verbally than in writing.
Soteria did pursue the reports. The Fire Brigade one was provided on 27 May 2021. On 
24 May 2021 Soteria sent a cheque for the Police report, but it was returned to them on 
10 June 2021 as not enough information had been provided  I cant then see they chased 
the Police until a note recorded three months later on 14 September 2021 says the cheque 
has been returned but they hadnt noticed this before. I asked Soteria to provide all the 
evidence of whatd happened on this case, and Ive been provided with a bit more 
information about their chasers to the Police  but it was actually Mr As representative who 
appears to have resolved this issue. He asked Mr A to contact the Police officer, and the 
same day received an email with their recollections of the event.
Overall though, I think Soteria should have made a decision on or shortly after 17 May 2021. 
At this time Mr A had provided all of the information he was being asked to provide, Soteria 
had spoken to the Fire Brigade and Police, and there wasnt any need for them to interview 
the family member.
Because of that, Im going to uphold this complaint. Allowing a reasonable period of time of 
say two weeks, Im going to say Soteria should pay 8% simple interest from 31 May 2021, to 
the date the claim was settled on 27 May 2022.
I also think some compensation is due. Mr A was left without quite significant funds for 
virtually a year longer than he should have been. The vast majority of the impact of that is 
addressed by requiring the 8% simple interest to be paid  but given Mr A had to chase up 
for the settlement and was caused some inconvenience as a result of that, I think £300 
compensation is fair.
Ive noted Mr As representative has asked for 50% of his fees to be covered by Soteria, 
saying the claim has only been settled because of him. While I understand his point, I wont be requiring Soteria to pay any of the fees Mr As representative is charging. Mr A could 
have complained, and brought the complaint to our service, without the use of a professional 
representative. Although there isnt any dispute Mr As representative has played a 
significant part in getting the claim paid, I dont think that automatically means the claim 
never would have been paid without his involvement.
Finally, Mr A also incurred a County Court Judgement which he says is because of the claim 
not being settled earlier  and initially he wanted to claim some compensation for this also. 
Mr As representative has subsequently said to get the evidence required for me to consider 
this would take many months, so theyre happy for me to put this aside. Because of that, Ive 
not considered it further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A replied, and said he accepted my outcome.
Soteria replied and said they didnt think they should pay interest or the compensation Id 
said they should. They said they had a number of avenues they wanted to continue 
exploring before making a decision on the claim  saying they still felt the relative had 
relevant information. And while it was unfortunate the Police report took so long, that was 
outside of their control. Soteria said as soon as the Police report was provided, they decided 
the outcome of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Soteria felt they needed the Police report, and to interview the relative, but as 
Ive set out above, I dont agree with that.
For the Police report this had already been confirmed verbally there wasnt anything that 
would impact Soterias decision to pay the claim. In addition, although Soteria say the delays 
in this report being provided were outside of their hands, I cant agree with that. There was a 
three-month delay between the report being applied for, and Soteria noticing the cheque 
sent to the Police had been returned just a week after it was sent. Ive also not been given a 
clear history of all contacts to the Police that show Soteria regularly chased it up. In addition, 
I cant ignore that Mr As representative was able to get the Police Officer to reply the same 
day. If he was able to do that, I feel Soteria should have been able to do it far earlier as well.
As for the relative, they werent present at the scene of the incident, so as Ive set out above 
I think it unlikely they were going to have any relevant information.
Overall, while taking into account everything Soteria have said, I still think they should have 
paid the claim far earlier than they did. Because of that, I remain of the opinion its fair to say 
the claim should be paid from 31 May 2021, with 8% being applied to the date the claim was 
paid on 27 May 2022. I also remain of the opinion compensation is fair for the reasons set 
out above.
Putting things right
I require Soteria to:
Pay 8% simple interest on the claim amount from 31 May 2021, to 27 May 2022
Pay Mr A £300 compensation*HM Revenue and Customs requires Soteria to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Soteria must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op 
Insurance to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman