DRN-3880271
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Payrnet (who Miss G knows as Pockit, so I will use this throughout my 
decision) blocked her account and returned the money in it back to the source accounts.
 
What happened
Miss Gs account was blocked on 5 February 2021. From this date forward Miss G was 
unable to use her account or access the £100.26 that was contained in it. 
She contacted Pockit to ask what was happening. On 26 February 2021 Pockit responded 
explaining that it was currently verifying her account and it required some information to 
assist it with its security procedure. It asked her to provide proof of address, proof of ID and 
for an explanation of what she used her account for. 
Miss G responded the following day saying it had taken Pockit weeks to reply to her and that 
she wouldnt be providing the information it has requested. She asked for her account to be 
closed and the money in it to be returned to her. Pockit responded to Miss G on 29 March 
2021 explaining that her account was still under review, and it wasnt able to provide a 
timeline for when its investigation would be completed. 
Miss G continued to chase Pockit for updates on her account and her request for it to be 
closed and her money returned. A complaint was raised and Pockit issued a final response 
on 15 April 2021. In this Pockit explained that it can restrict the use of an account under its 
terms and conditions and request information. It said it couldnt provide timescales for how 
long this would take. 
Pockit closed Miss Gs account on 6 August 2021 and unbeknown to Miss G, attempted to 
return the money to source. One amount of £50 was successfully returned to source, as well 
as the 26p, but the other £50 bounced back. 
Miss G referred her complaint to our service, unhappy Pockit had not returned the money to 
her. Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint because whilst he was satisfied Pockit was 
able to review the account, he didnt think it should have returned the funds in the account to 
source. He wasnt persuaded Pockit had provided enough evidence to show Miss G wasnt 
entitled to the funds and it shouldve done more to investigate any concerns it had. He 
recommended Pockit refund the £100.26 it had returned to source and pay £50 
compensation for the time Miss G had been without the money and the inconvenience 
caused. 
Pockit disagreed with the investigator explaining it had followed the terms and conditions in 
returning the funds to source. It did explain that it would refund the £50 that had been 
returned.
Because Pockit disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Prior to my decision, the investigator asked Miss G what she used her Pockit account for 
and asked that she provide some evidence around this. However, Miss G was only able to 
say that she thinks she used it for her health and wellness business but had no evidence of 
this. 
What I provisionally decided - and why 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
12 December 2022. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Pockit has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being blocked. If Pockit didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Pockit was within its rights to block Miss Gs account and
carry out a review. 
Whilst Im not in a position to say the blocking of the account was incorrect on this occasion, 
Ive looked at whether Pockit couldve acted any quicker than it did or done anything 
differently, including its decision to return the funds in the account to source. 
Our investigator didnt think Pockit had done enough to investigate any concerns it had and 
therefore thought it should not have returned the money in the account to source. However, I 
can see Pockit asked Miss G for some information to help with its review of her account in 
February 2021. I appreciate Miss G had been waiting for a response for a few weeks by that 
point and didnt wish to answer the questions as a result. However, it was important that she 
provided the information shed been asked for so that Pockit could complete its review. 
Because of Miss Gs failure to cooperate, Pockit couldnt determine whether she was entitled 
to the funds in her account. So, considering everything, including Miss Gs response to the 
investigators queries about the purpose of her account, I dont think Pockit was wrong to 
return the funds to source. 
I should point out that Pockit does seem to have delayed the closing of Miss Gs account. It 
knew in February 2021 that Miss G wasnt willing to comply with its request for information 
and so had all it needed to complete its review. I would therefore have expected it to take 
action and close the account and return the funds to source sooner than August 2021. 
However, whilst I think there was a delay on this front, I dont think this warrants any further 
action by Pockit. Had Pockit acted as I would have expected, Miss Gs account would still 
have been closed and the money still returned to source  it would just have been done 
sooner. So, regardless of the delay, Miss G would still be in the same position. I appreciate 
not knowing what was happening with her account must have been frustrating for Miss G, 
but the situation may have been avoided had she complied with Pockits request for 
information in February 2021.
Since the complaint was brought to this service, Pockit has said it will pay Miss G the £50 
that bounced back. Based on my conclusions above, its not for me to comment on this or 
make a recommendation for it to be paid to Miss G.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision explaining that she has provided all the 
information she has access to, and feels comfortable sharing, given the nature of the way 
Pockit conducts business and the numerous complaints that exist against it and its owners. 
She said she didnt feel safe providing it with any more personal information. She doesnt want to provide her account number and sort code for Pockit to return the £50 
when the facility to send a cheque is readily available to it. 
Miss G said that to state Pockit has acted in a timely, professional and potentially legal 
manner is subject to question and wanted to reiterate that, in her opinion, Pockit doesnt 
seem to want to act within the regulatory guidelines. She questioned why there doesnt seem 
to be an external review of the practices of Pockit. 
Pockit responded saying it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Gs strength of feeling about the way Pockit operate. But this service looks 
into individual complaints and so its not for me to comment on any wider issues Miss G has 
mentioned. 
Instead, Ive looked at what happened in her case and while I understand Miss Gs 
reluctance to share information with Pockit, it remains that it was acting with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when requesting this. And as explained in my provisional decision, 
Miss Gs failure to do so meant Pockit couldnt complete its investigation and determine if 
she was entitled to the funds. Therefore, Im satisfied Pockit acted fairly in returning the 
funds to source. 
Given this, my decision on this complaint remains unchanged and I dont uphold it.
Miss G has said she wants Pockit to return the £50 that bounced back via a cheque as she 
doesnt wish to provide her bank account details. As Ive not upheld this complaint, I wont be 
commenting on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against PayrNet Limited. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman