DRN-3142658
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have declined a claim he 
made on his employers group income protection policy.
What happened
Mr L was a beneficiary of his former employers group income protection scheme. The policy 
had a 26 week deferred period. That means that Mr L would be able to start receiving a 
benefit from Legal and General if he met the policy definition of incapacity at the end of that 
26 week period.  
In May 2018 Mr L became absent from work but subsequently started to complete a phased 
return to work. In March 2019 Mr L became absent from work and submitted a claim via his 
employers group income protection scheme. 
Legal and General declined to pay the claim on the basis that it hadnt been notified of the 
claim when it should have been. And they didnt think that the medical evidence supported 
that Mr L was unable to work. Mr L appealed but Legal and General maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Unhappy with Legal and Generals response, Mr L made a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that Legal and General had fairly declined the claim on the basis that the claim had been 
notified later than it should have been and because the medical evidence didnt support that 
Mr L met the policy definition of incapacity. Mr L didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. He said that he was incapacitated and provided further medical 
evidence in support of his position. So, I need to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy provides that a benefit can be paid to a member of the scheme if they meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. In this case the relevant definition of incapacity set out on the 
policy schedule is own occupation. This is defined in the policy terms and conditions which 
say:
Own occupation 
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period. The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of 
his own occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains 
available to him. 
The policy also sets out a definition of deferred period which means:
For each insured member the period of consecutive weeks shown for the relevant 
category in the schedule starting with the first day that he was: 
Unable to work;
Only able to work reduced hours; or 
Only able to work in a reduced capacity ; 
Because of an injury or illness that resulted in him becoming a disabled member. 
If the disabled member returns to work during the deferred period, but becomes 
unable to work again because of his injury or illness, we will link the separate periods 
of absence together as long as: 
Each absence is for at least five consecutive working days 
Each absence is because of the same or a related injury or illness 
All the absences we link have been within the last 52 weeks. 
The terms and conditions also explain that: 
Payment of this benefit will be subject to us receiving all of the following: 
(i) An absence notification in the format required by us not later than the benefit 
start date. 
If this requirement is not met and the date of the notification in the format 
required by us is after the end of the deferred period, benefit will be payable 
from the date on which the notice is received by us. 
If the application for benefit in the format required by us is received more than 
90 days after the end of the deferred period, we reserve the right to not pay 
benefit in respect of such application. 
The benefit start date means for an insured member: 
The day immediately after the last day of the deferred period. 
Im not upholding this complaint as I think Legal and General reasonably declined the claim. 
I say that because: 
The deferred period in the policy is 26 weeks. In summary, the deferred period is the 
minimum period of time Mr L would need to be unable to work before he could 
successfully claim. Mr L was required to notify Legal and General of his claim no later 
than the benefit start date (which is the day after the last day of the deferred period). Mr L was off work in 2018 as he was experiencing problems with his breathing. His 
absences in 2019 were due to breathing dysfunction and stress. He first became 
absent in May 2018 and therefore Im satisfied that the deferred period ended in 
November 2018 and that was also the benefit start date. Legal and General werent 
notified of the claim until March 2019. Thats approximately six months later than they 
should have been told about the claim and well outside the 90-day grace period set 
out in the policy. So, based on the contract of insurance, there was no requirement 
for Legal and General to consider the claim, due to the late notification. 
Legal and General did assess the claim, despite there being no contractual 
requirement for them to do so. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude that their position 
had been prejudiced by the late notification. Mr L had been absent from work, or 
performing reduced hours, for nearly a year before Legal and General were aware of 
the claim. The available medical evidence suggests that the reasons for absence 
were complex and that there were various contributing factors including work place 
issues, bereavement and Mr Ls respiratory symptoms. The late notification of the 
claim means that Legal and General have been deprived of the opportunity to 
actively manage the claim and seek contemporaneous medical evidence from Mr L 
and his treating team. Instead, Legal and General are now in a position where 
theyve needed to retrospectively assess the medical evidence. Given the passage of 
time, and the various factors contributing to Mr Ls absence, its now difficult to 
understand whether Mr L met the policy definition of incapacity and how Mr Ls 
conditions impacted on his ability to carry out the essential duties of his occupation. 
In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account that at the end of the deferred 
period Mr L was completing a phased return to work.
Ive taken into account the further medical information Mr L has provided in response 
to our investigators recommendation. But it doesnt change my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint. The report refers to a separate, non-work, incident which 
took place in November 2020. Whilst Mr L has provided GP notes certifying his 
absence from work, the notes relate to 2019 they also identify stress and work place 
issues as being relevant to Mr Ls absence. So, I dont think this evidence offers any 
further insight into whether Mr L met the definition of incapacity at the time when 
Legal and General should have been notified of the claim.  
In any event, as Ive outlined above, I think there were reasonable grounds upon 
which Legal and General could fairly decline the claim, based on the late notification 
of the claim alone. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman