DRN-4283353
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED, who Ill call SMF.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint as I think there is evidence the repairs to the
differential have been unsuccessful and the car remains of unsatisfactory quality.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about
seven and a half years old and had already completed a little over 86,000 miles. So, I dont
think a reasonable person would expect it to be fault free as would perhaps be the case with
a brand new car.
The independent inspector who looked at the car in July 2022 thought the fault with the
Haldex unit suggested the car was in an unsatisfactory condition when it was supplied to Mr
O. He said:
Once it has been confirmed that the Haldex unit is causing the transmission vibration and
any necessary repairs have been completed we believe the vehicle would be returned to a
serviceable/satisfactory overall general condition for a vehicle that is approaching 90,000
miles.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair
the car but if that repair fails the consumer is entitled to reject the car. Im persuaded that the
repair completed to the cars differential/Haldex unit failed. I say that because a report from a
third party garage in March 2023 confirms:
It looks like it has had a reconditioned unit fit and this is causing an issue. We recommend
only fitting new units from manufacturer as they are a very troublesome unit and the
fixes/repairs do not last.
SMF should therefore allow Mr O to reject the car.
Putting things right
SMF should collect the car at no cost to Mr O and they should end the finance agreement.
The relevant legislation allows SMF to retain a portion of the finance instalments theyve
been paid in respect of the usage the consumer has had from the car. Mr O has been able to
drive the car throughout the agreement, but that usage has been impaired. The independent
engineer explained there were vibrations through the transmission at speed and Mr O must
have been concerned driving the car with a known fault. I think that will have spoilt his
enjoyment of the car. In the circumstances I think SMF should refund 10% of all finance
instalments Mr O has paid in respect of the loss of use and loss of enjoyment he has
experienced.
Mr O has been inconvenienced by these issues. Our investigator suggested that SMF
should pay him £100 compensation, but I think thats a little low in the circumstances. Mr O
has had to drive a car that hasnt been of satisfactory quality for over a year now, hes had to
return to the garage frequently and has had to provide his own diagnostic to demonstrate the
differential problem persisted. Hes been kept waiting for a repair and hes explained that
hes had to take time off work and make alternative arrangements to transport his disabled
partner. Mr O has also had to escalate his complaint to this Service when I think it could
have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances, Im expecting to tell SMF to pay him £400
in compensation.
I can see that Mr O had the car MOTd in May 2023. That was after our investigator had
suggested SMF support the rejection of the car. Mr O has explained that he had to spend
some money putting the car right before that MOT and, as he wouldnt have had to pay for
the MOT if SMF had approved rejection after the investigator had provided his view, I think
SMF should refund the cost of the MOT, and the cost of any remedial work Mr O had to
carry out on the car to get it through the MOT. Theyll need to add interest to any refund.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED to:
Allow Mr O to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
Refund 10% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of use
and enjoyment.
Pay Mr O £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
Refund the cost of any work or parts required to get the car through the May 2023MOT and refund the cost of that MOT. Mr O will need to provide receipts and SMF
should add 8% simple interest* per year to any refund from the date of payment to
the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
Mr O provided an invoice for the brakes hed had to replace to get through the MOT and he 
provided the MOT certificate. He explained that he didnt have a receipt for the MOT as hed 
paid the £45 in cash.
Startline didnt provide any additional comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. I think Mr Os explanation about payment for the MOT is acceptable 
and that it is fair to tell Startline to refund that expense in the absence of a receipt, as an 
MOT was clearly necessary and Mr O would have been likely to incur the expense.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to:
Allow Mr O to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O.
Refund 10% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of loss of use
and enjoyment.
Pay Mr O £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
Refund the cost of any work or parts required to get the car through the May 2023
MOT and refund the cost of that MOT. Mr O will need to provide receipts for the work 
and SMF should add 8% simple interest* per year to any refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Os credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman