DRN-2694405
The complaint
Mr F complains that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited gave him misleading 
information about how to surrender his investment  he would like to be compensated for the 
difference in price he could have achieved. 
What happened
Mr F had an investment with Scottish Widows. But last year, he was thinking of withdrawing 
some of the money. He called Scottish Widows on 14 February 2020 to ask what the 
process would be. He was told he could call back to do it over the phone and that his identity 
had been verified to avoid delays. 
Mr F decided he wanted to sell on 6 March  he called Scottish Widows and said he wanted 
to withdraw most of the amount. But this time, he was told hed need to write in to request 
the withdrawal so his signature could be checked. Mr F wasnt happy as this was different to 
what he was told before. 
Mr F sent a signed instruction on 7 March  Scottish Widows say this was received on 
Monday 9 March. Mr F called that day, but at that point his letter wasnt showing on the 
system. Mr F says he called back later in the day and the automated valuation given was 
around £900, so he waited to speak to someone who told him a withdrawal worth £134,000 
had been actioned.
 
However, it later transpired that Mr Fs investment was actually sold the next day, on 
10 March, for around £128,000. 
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr F made a complaint. Scottish Widows looked into 
Mr Fs concerns and sent him a final response in April 2020. They apologised for the 
confusion and him being given the wrong information. They compensated him for not 
executing the sale on the day the instruction was received  they paid the £1,000 difference 
in share price. They also paid him £200 for the inconvenience and almost £50 in interest on 
the share price difference between 11 and 17 March. 
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr F asked for our help. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened but thought what Scottish Widows had already done was fair. She felt it 
was reasonable for them to have required a signed letter to withdraw a large amount of 
money. She also thought the £1,250 was enough to recognise the confusion as well as 
financial loss. 
Mr F didnt agree. He thought he should have been told about the procedure for larger 
withdrawals when he called the first time. He was also sure hed been told the value on 
Monday 9 March was £134,000. Our investigator asked Scottish Widows for that call but 
they couldnt trace it given the system it was on. Mr F remained unhappy so as an 
agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see the core of this complaint turns on the information Mr F was given 
when he first called Scottish Widows. Had he been told hed have to write in, he would 
perhaps have looked to begin that process sooner than the day upon which he called. And 
given that Mr F was withdrawing his money in March 2020, every day made a real difference 
given the impact the pandemic was having on the markets. 
With that in mind, Ive listened to the three calls Mr F had with Scottish Widows. The first 
was on 14 February when he originally enquired about the withdrawals process. At this 
point, Mr F said he was thinking about withdrawing in a month, but just wanted to know how 
to go about it. 
Mr F said, I just want to know, if I wanted to withdraw, say £20,000, how long it would take, 
does this go straight into my account. The member or staff explained a partial withdrawal 
like this would usually arrive in a bank around between one and two working days later, 
providing the ID checks were satisfied. They decided to do the ID checks then, so that Mr F 
wouldnt face any delays when the time did come that he wanted to withdraw. 
The second call was on Friday 6 March as Mr F had decided he was ready to withdraw. 
When asked how much he wanted to withdraw, Mr F said, most of it. He was then told hed 
have to write in. Thereafter there was some back and forth with Mr F explaining he was told 
he could call, and the member of staff saying she needed a letter, the reasons why and that 
hed been misadvised on his first call. Mr F was unhappy  the price was going down and he 
didnt know why a signature would be needed. He just wanted the money transferred.  
Before I go on to consider what happened thereafter, its important to recognise here that 
what Mr F was asking in February differed to what he was asking in March. In his first call, 
he suggested he might want to withdraw say £20,000. But in the second, he wanted to 
withdraw over £130,000. Scottish Widows told us that they require a signed letter or form for 
withdrawals over £50,000  and while that isnt in their terms, its a policy decision theyve 
made to protect customers and ensure payments are authorised. 
As our investigator said, its not for our service to interfere with this sort of thing. Its for firms 
like Scottish Widows to decide what their policies will be and how they will go about 
satisfying the multitude of requirements they have. Our service isnt Scottish Widows 
regulator so its not for us to tell them how they ought to go about running their business or 
what their procedures ought to be  thats a commercial decision for them to make. 
Nevertheless, I think its understandable and reasonable of them to enhance their checks 
when larger sums of money are involved.
I know Mr F thinks he ought to have been told about this requirement when he first called, 
but I dont agree. Mr F said he was looking to withdraw a figure below the £50,000 level 
which required a signature. Had Mr F have said he wasnt sure how much he was going to 
withdraw, I would have expected the member of staff to have explained that the process 
could differ depending on the amount. But this isnt what happened. 
While I appreciate that staff member could still have mentioned the additional requirement 
should he decide to withdraw more, I wouldnt find against Scottish Widows for something 
like that. We must recognise that there will always be a considerable number of policies or 
requirements which apply to a number of differing sets of circumstances  to have gone 
through all of those different scenarios would have felt onerous and the majority wouldnt 
have been helpful to Mr F either. So I dont think Scottish Widows did anything wrong by not mentioning the additional requirements when Mr F first called  they instead simply 
answered the question asked of them.
Turning back to the calls Ive listened to, the third was on Monday 9 March. Mr F said hed 
checked the value of his investment on Friday  but hed checked again and it was the 
same. The member of staff explained how pricing worked  the price was set at 8am each 
day, but this wasnt communicated to them until around 1:30pm each day. Mr F then 
explained the issue hed had with the withdrawal. The member of staff couldnt see Mr Fs 
letter but suggested calling back the next day in case it was in the post room. 
Mr F says he called Scottish Widows again and was told firstly that his withdrawal had been 
actioned and secondly that it totalled £134,000. I have not been able to review this call 
recording as unfortunately Scottish Widows have not provided it. I understand Mr F feels 
suspicious of this, but from what I understand the call began using an automated process 
and this is not something thats recorded or accessible now.  
Mr Fs encashment ought to have been done on the day his letter was received, but it was 
actioned a day later. Scottish Widows have paid the difference in value of just over £1,000 to 
him. I think this is fair. I cant see any evidence to suggest they ought to pay him another 
£5,000 to bring the proceeds up to the £134,000 figure, as the price he ought to have 
achieved on the day his instruction was received was just over £129,000. 
I can see Scottish Widows also paid almost £250 to recognise the delays and 
inconvenience. I also think this is fair. I know Mr F would like more compensation, but as I 
have explained above I dont think Scottish Widows did anything wrong on their first call with 
him. 
I sympathise with Mr Fs situation as he cashed in his investment for less than he hoped to 
receive. But from everything Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained above, Mr F lost 
money due to market conditions rather than as a result of Scottish Widows actions  and 
what they did affect has now been put right. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint as I think Scottish Widows 
have already done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman