DRN-2432068
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) has 
handled a claim she made when she raised a dispute about a transaction she made on her 
JLFS credit card. She raised the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(S75).
What happened
Mrs S entered into a contract with an online travel agent  who I shall call E  to stay at a 
hotel. She paid a deposit of £150 for the hotel. Shortly afterwards E said the hotel wasnt 
available and it offered her an alternative. Mrs S wasnt happy with the alternative so E said 
it could look for an alternative for her. It also said Mrs S could look for an equivalent hotel 
and it would consider this. Mrs S wasnt happy with this and asked E to refund her deposit. 
E didnt provide a refund, so Mrs S contacted JLFS to dispute the transaction. JLFS then 
processed a chargeback, but the chargeback wasnt successful as JLFS said E had 
provided a suitable resolution. Mrs S contacted JLFS and said she didnt agree and 
maintained she wanted a refund. JLFS didnt think she was entitled to a refund, so Mrs S 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he was satisfied the hotel offered was a 
suitable like for like replacement. So he didnt think JLFS had acted unfairly in not refunding 
the deposit.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator and maintained she thought she was entitled to a 
refund of her deposit.
I wrote to both parties saying I intended to uphold this complaint and I said the following:
Mrs S is unhappy the hotel she booked through E wasn't available. E offered her an 
alternative hotel, but she wasn't happy with the option. E says it was a like for like hotel, but 
if it wasn't then it would seek an alternative. Mrs S didn't accept this and asked for a refund 
of what she paid. JLFS thinks Es offer was fair.
I note JLFS didn't obtain a copy of the terms and conditions of the contract with E, but I think 
this failure has had an impact on the outcome. I've attached a copy of the terms and 
conditions, but in particular I note the below clause set out on page 17 which says:
"If we change or cancel your holiday
If we are unable to provide the booked travel arrangements, you can either have a refund of 
all monies paid or accept an offer of alternative travel arrangements of comparable standard 
from us, if available (we will refund any price difference if the alternative is of a lower value). 
If it is necessary to cancel your travel arrangements, we will pay to you compensation as set 
out in this clause. If we make a major change to your holiday, we will inform you or your 
travel agent as soon as reasonably possible if there is time before your departure. You will 
have the choice of either accepting the change of arrangements, accepting an offer of 
alternative travel arrangements of a comparable standard from us if available (we will refund 
any price difference if the alternative is of a lower value), or cancelling your booked holiday 
and receiving a full refund of all monies paid."
In this case E wasn't able to provide the hotel Mrs S required and wanted to change it. So I 
think the above term gave her the option of accepting the alternative travel arrangements or 
a refund of all monies paid. So I think from this, Mrs S should have been given a refund of 
the deposit she wanted after she rejected the alternative travel arrangements. Based on this, 
I'm inclined to uphold this complaint and say JLFS should do the following:
1. Reconstruct the credit card as if the transaction never took place. If, after doing so, 
Mrs S is out of pocket at any time, it should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date 
she was out of pocket until she gets it back; and
2. Pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she's incurred as a result 
of JLFS unfairly declining her S75 claim.
JLFS didnt agree with what I said. It said it didnt consider the matter under S75, but under 
chargeback. It said it asked Mrs S to provide a copy of the terms and conditions along with 
all other supporting documentation. It set out that, its not that it didnt obtain them, but Mrs S 
didnt supply them. It said she also didnt supply a copy of the original booking confirmation 
which it said meant it didnt know specifically what she had booked and agreed with E.
JLFS said Mrs S didnt complain E had failed to follow their terms and conditions, but that 
that she hadnt been offered a four-star hotel, when actually she was offered a like for like. It 
maintained there were no chargeback rights in this instance as E had offered a valid 
alternative. It also highlighted there wasnt anything to show Mrs S didnt go on the trip or 
that Mrs S declined Es offer.
Mrs S set out the following:
1. The initial hotel advertised was an adult only hotel, however the alternative was not. So 
she said they werent like for like.
2. She said she didnt take any holiday that year. She said she couldnt use the holiday 
unless she paid in full which she said she did not.
3. She said she didnt remember being asked for the terms and conditions. So she said she 
can only assume JLFS didnt actually ask or did so in such a way it did not make it clear 
that she needed to provide them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
JLFS processed the dispute under chargeback. Chargeback is the process by which a bank 
or credit card provider look to resolve a settlement between a consumer and a merchant 
under the relevant card scheme. Initially the card provider will temporarily refund the 
payment back onto the card account and will raise a dispute with the merchant. The 
merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed period of time with any further 
information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the chargeback shouldnt go 
through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund is returned to the 
merchant.
JLFS says the chargeback wouldnt be successful because it considered the supplier had already made a fair resolution offer to provide an alternative hotel. I dont necessarily 
disagree with this as this is generally considered a fair ground to defend a chargeback. But I 
think JLFS should also have considered this matter under S75  particularly once Mrs S 
made it clear she didnt agree with the chargeback decision.
JLFS says it had no reason to consider S75 because Mrs S completed the chargeback 
forms. But I dont think a consumer would generally be aware of all the grounds to dispute a 
transaction and I would expect a credit card provider to consider all the appropriate options. I 
also think its unreasonable for a credit card provider to not consider breach of contract just 
because the consumer didnt specifically say this was the reason for dispute. 
Mrs S paid for the hotel deposit through her JLFS credit card. S75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, JLFS is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by E. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
JLFS says it wasnt able to review the terms and conditions because Mrs S didnt provide 
them. I can see it initially asked Mrs S to provide the terms and conditions and copies of the 
correspondence shed had with E. Mrs S responded to provide all the correspondence shed 
had with E, but she didnt provide the terms and conditions. However, I dont think it was fair 
for JLFS to issue a conclusion as to whether there was a breach of contract without further 
asking for the terms and conditions  either by asking Mrs S again or contacting E directly.
I note JLFS has queried whether Mrs S went on the holiday, but Im satisfied she didnt do so 
and theres nothing to suggest she didnt. Ultimately, as I initially set out, under the terms of 
the contract with E, Mrs S was entitled to a refund of the deposit given E wasnt able to 
provide the hotel she initially booked. So I think E breached the terms of the contract in not 
refunding the deposit. And I think JLFS would have realised this had it taken further steps to 
obtain the terms and conditions. Based on this, I still think JLFS should do the following:
1. Reconstruct the credit card as if the transaction never took place. If, after doing so, Mrs S 
is out of pocket at any time, it should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date she 
was out of pocket until she gets it back; and
2. Pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she's incurred as a result of 
JLFS unfairly declining her S75 claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to compensate Mrs S in line with my 
instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman