DRN-3948347
The complaint
Miss H complains J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly provided her with a 
catalogue shopping account and limit increases.
What happened
In November 2020 J D Williams provided Miss H with a catalogue shopping account. The 
initial limit was approved at £175; and after multiple increases Miss Hs limit was finally 
approved at £1,750 in December 2021. 
Miss H complained to J D Williams as she said it had irresponsibly provided her the credit. 
She said had J D Williams completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have 
identified the initial limit and increases were unaffordable for her. 
J D Williams didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. It said the checks it completed before each 
lending event were proportionate; and that it went on to make fair lending decisions. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She considered J D 
Williams had completed proportionate checks for the initial limit and all increases, except the 
last, in December 2021. So, she took into account the information J D Williams obtained 
from the proportionate checks, and considered the information it would likely have obtained 
in December 2021, had it completed proportionate checks, to review whether it had fairly 
approved this lending to Miss H. And based on the evidence she had, and that Miss H had 
provided, she concluded J D Williams made fair lending decisions on each occasion. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She maintained her position that J D 
Williams shouldnt have provided her with the credit; and she said she was in a Debt Relief 
Order (DRO) when a number of the limit increases were approved.
Miss H asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint.   
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Miss H. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time J D 
Williams lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Miss Hs ability to afford the lending and repay it sustainably, without 
causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for J D Williams to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about the original credit limit and increases 
approved to Miss Hs account.
J D Williams has said it completed a credit check before providing the original limit. Its said 
the results of the credit check didnt give it any cause for concern, and that based on the 
level of credit being provided it is satisfied its checks were proportionate, and that it went on 
to make a fair lending decision.
Ive considered the checks J D Williams completed when approving the initial limit and, in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied they were proportionate, given the level of credit being provided. 
The details within the credit check showed Miss H had other credit but there were no signs 
that it wasnt being maintained well, such as recent missed payment markers or defaults. 
And J D Williams checks didnt show Miss H as being bankrupt; or that she had any CCJs 
registered against her. J D Williams has confirmed it noted a historic default on Miss Hs 
credit file, but that this had been registered around 35 months prior to this credit being 
approved. So, Im satisfied the checks J D Williams completed were proportionate to the 
level of credit being provided; and that it went on to make a fair lending decision when 
approving the initial limit. 
J D Williams approved limit increases in January, February, March, April and May 2021 of 
between £275 and £1,400 across this period. For the same reasons as the initial limit 
increase, Im satisfied J D Williams completed proportionate checks at each of these lending 
events; and went on to make fair lending decisions. 
The checks it completed at each increase again didnt show signs of any recent adverse 
information, or any significant changes in Miss Hs management of her credit. It showed that 
Miss H was maintaining her existing lines of credit relatively well, as she had with this 
account, maintaining minimum payments and not exceeding limits. So, I dont consider there 
was anything that ought reasonably to have led J D Williams to have conducted more 
detailed checks for any of the limit increases up to and including May 2021.
In December 2021 J D Williams increased Miss Hs limit to £1,750. At this increase J D 
Williams completed the same level of checks that it had previously. Ive carefully thought 
about this increase and J D Williams argument that it complete proportionate checks; but Im 
not persuaded that its checks were proportionate in this instance.
I say this because J D Williams had now increased Miss Hs available credit to ten times its 
initial limit; within the space of around 12 months. And when Miss Hs limit was increased to 
£1,400 in May 2021, shed relatively quickly utilised most of this new limit. I consider the 
increase to £1,750 was at a level where proportionate checks ought to have led J D Williams 
to obtain a more detailed account of Miss Hs financial circumstances, which would have 
included obtaining details of her income and expenditure, in addition to taking into account the historic management of this account, as well as any information it obtained from its credit 
checks.
Miss H has provided our service with her bank statements covering a period of around three 
months leading up to the last limit increase in December 2021. Ive considered these 
statements to build a picture of Miss Hs financial circumstances at the time, as I think J D 
Williams will have been presented with similar information had it completed proportionate 
checks as part of this increase.
The statements dont appear to show any affordability issues, and as such Im satisfied that 
had J D Williams completed proportionate checks it would still have reasonably likely led to it 
approving this limit increase.
I say this because I can see regular payments into Miss Hs account, including benefits, 
making up her income. Ive also seen regular expenditure to a utility company, a telecoms 
company and some credit commitments. She doesnt have any returned payments and her 
account doesnt go into an overdraft position. On the whole Miss Hs non-discretionary 
expenditure does appear to be relatively low; and based on the regular payments into the 
account, Miss H is left with a relatively reasonable disposable income at the end of each 
month.
So, taking all of the above into account Im satisfied J D Williams made fair lending decisions 
when approving Miss H this credit account and limit increases.
Miss H has provided evidence that she entered a DRO in February 2019 and was 
discharged in February 2020. Miss H has said as this information remains on her credit file 
for six years, J D Williams should have taken account of it and not lent to her. 
Ive considered what Miss H has said, but I cant agree with her conclusions. Miss H had 
been discharged from her DRO for around nine months when she was provided with this 
credit. And as Ive found above, it was originally provided with a relatively low limit that 
increased over time, based on checks J D Williams completed which, as Ive found above, I 
consider were largely proportionate to the credit being provided. In addition, J D Williams 
was entitled to rely on the information it obtained, and the checks it completed didnt show 
Miss H as being bankrupt or having any CCJs. So, while I acknowledge Miss Hs position on 
this point, I cant agree that having previously been in a DRO alone ought to have led J D 
Williams to have declined to provide her with credit. 
As thats the case, and as Ive found above that J D Williams made fair lending decisions 
when approving the initial limit and all increases; I dont require it to take any further action in 
resolution of this complaint. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss H; and Im sorry to hear of her health 
conditions. I would take this opportunity to remind J D Williams of its obligations to treat 
Miss H fairly when discussing repayment of any outstanding debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint 
about J D Williams & Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 Richard Turner
Ombudsman