DRN-2145620
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (the bank) wont refund money 
that he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
After attending some seminars, Mr H decided he wanted to buy bitcoin. He searched online 
and found a business purporting to provide that service. He made a payment to them for 
£7,000 in return for bitcoin  this payment took place on 14 January 2018. Mr H didnt 
receive anything in response to making this payment. Subsequently he carried out some 
research and discovered the business he paid the money to wasnt legitimate. 
He notified the bank of the scam payment on 15 January 2018. The bank notified the 
recipient bank that the payment had been made in error and asked for it to be returned. That 
request was unsuccessful. Mr H was notified of this on 18 January 2018.
 
Mr H called the bank again on 14 February 2018. He explained what had happened 
describing the payment as being made in error and it had turned out to be a scam. A further 
request was sent to the recipient bank  this time on the basis the payment had been made 
as part of a scam  but again it was unsuccessful.
 
Mr H complained. Bank of Scotland was satisfied it hadnt done anything wrong in relation to 
the payment being sent  Mr H had authorised it. However, it did acknowledge that its first 
request for the funds to be returned wasnt done on a scam basis as it ought to have been. It 
therefore checked with the recipient bank whether it would have made any difference if it had 
initially used the correct basis. It said the recipient bank explained the funds had been 
withdrawn by the scammers in seconds. It did, however, offer £150 for the error in the way 
the initial request was made. 
Our investigator was satisfied Bank of Scotland had already fairly resolved the complaint. He 
wasnt persuaded the transaction was unusual such that Bank of Scotland ought to have 
identified that Mr H might be the victim of a scam and so taken further steps. Although the 
bank had initially raised the wrong type of refund request to the recipient bank, this hadnt 
made any difference as the funds had been withdrawn in seconds  so even had the request 
been made correctly the first time, the bank wouldnt have been able to recoup his funds.  
Mr H has asked for the matter to be reviewed. I summarise his arguments below:
The bank has told him separately that it is willing to refund the money lost but it 
is waiting on our assessment. 
He has been told by the recipient bank that funds were still in the account when 
initial reimbursement request was made. 
He has been told that he is entitled to far more compensation than the £150 
offered. 
The recipient bank had not been asked for confirmation of whether funds 
remained until the latter stages of the complaint and only after he had asked for 
the matter to be reviewed. 
He is not willing to accept the evidence Bank of Scotland has put forward  he 
will only accept something from the recipient bank on a headed letter or direct 
email. He suggests Bank of Scotland may have written the evidence it is relying 
on. 
Further evidence of the banks customer service failings is that he never 
received the letter sent in January 2018, and questions why the bank left it until 
February 2018 to call him; it could have called him in January. 
The transaction was the highest transaction he had made without additional 
verification being required. 
He considers the evidence provided by the bank to be weak and questionable. 
The investigator checked with Bank of Scotland and it has confirmed that it hasnt, and nor 
will it be, voluntarily refunding Mr Hs loss. The investigator also tried contacting the recipient 
bank to find out when the funds were withdrawn, in order to provide further evidence to Mr H 
 the investigator was satisfied he already had sufficient evidence to reach the conclusions 
he did. A response hasnt been received, so it is now appropriate to progress this complaint 
to our final stage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr H and Bank of Scotland that although I have only 
summarised the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything 
provided in its entirety. My role isnt to comment on the service Mr H has received from us 
(which he also complains of) but to decide the case; and in doing so, I will be focusing on the 
crux of the issue: did anything go wrong when the payment was executed and, if not, has 
Mr H lost out as a result of Bank of Scotland not following the correct process in January 
2018? 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with banking terms and 
conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if 
they were duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether Bank of Scotland breached that 
duty when executing Mr Hs payment request? 
There is no dispute that Mr H was duped into authorising a payment for bitcoin of £7,000. 
This payment took place on 14 January 2018 and was made through what Mr H believed 
was a legitimate website that sold bitcoin. Although Mr H says this was his highest 
transaction without additional verification being required, there is no dispute that Mr H 
authorised this online payment using his usual security credentials. So, I conclude that this was an authorised payment  for which Mr H is liable unless there is evidence that the bank 
could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, which issue I now turn to.
 
£7,000 is not an insubstantial sum and so I have considered whether this ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether Mr H was 
the victim of scam and intervened. In February 2017, Mr H made a payment of over £15,000 
from his account. And in April 2017, a payment of over £43,000 was made by him. These 
are significantly higher sums that Mr H had not queried  and therefore appear legitimate. In 
such circumstances, Im not persuaded the payment for £7,000 was so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank grounds for 
suspecting fraud.  
 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence Bank of Scotland breached its duty to Mr H or 
that it shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment request he had made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all payment-service 
users and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to execute a 
properly-authorised payment request within a reasonable period. 
I turn now to whether Bank of Scotland took reasonable steps to try and recover Mr Hs 
funds once it knew of the scam. It is common ground the bank made the initial request for a 
return of Mr Hs funds on the wrong basis  this was done as a payment made in error, 
rather than a scam payment. This request was unsuccessful. Contrary to Mr Hs 
submissions, I am satisfied that he did receive the letter sent on 18 January 2018 informing 
him of this (because he read it out to the case-handler in the call of 14 February 2018, which 
I have listened to). It wasnt until Mr H contacted the bank again on 14 February that the 
request was put through on the right basis  a scam. But again this request was 
unsuccessful. 
Bank of Scotland asked the recipient bank to confirm whether any funds had remained at the 
time of the initial request. This is a question I would expect it to ask, as it would establish 
whether Mr H had been caused a loss by the initial incorrect recovery request. The banks 
records show the recipient bank has informed it the money was withdrawn in seconds. It is 
common knowledge that this is typical behaviour by scammers to avoid detection and 
recovery. 
Mr H doubts the information the bank received and has gone so far as to suggest Bank of 
Scotland may have fabricated the evidence itself. This is a very serious allegation of fraud on 
the part of the bank, for which Mr H has provided no persuasive evidence. Such allegations 
should not be made lightly or without concrete evidence. Likewise, Mr H has provided no 
persuasive evidence that the recipient bank informed him funds had remained when Bank of 
Scotlands initial recovery request was made; indeed, the direct sharing of such information 
with a third-party consumer would be highly unusual due to data-protection laws. Ultimately, 
it is for me to decide what evidence to accept and what weight to place on that. I have no 
reason to doubt the banks records, and I find them more persuasive than Mr Hs testimony.
It follows that, even had Bank of Scotland made the correct attempt to recover funds on 15 
January 2018, that request would have been unsuccessful; no funds remained to recover. 
Bank of Scotland did offer Mr H £150 for the inconvenience of the initial incorrect request  
he was put to the trouble of contacting the bank again about how that request had been 
made. In all the circumstances, I find that offer to be fair and reasonable for the additional 
trouble Mr H was put to. I dont require Bank of Scotland to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has 
already fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr H £150 if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman