DRN-4480085
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse the money he says he lost to a 
scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 November 2023. The background 
and circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to not uphold it were set 
out in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide  
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In or around May 2020 Mr J was approached, by somebody he knew who ran a property 
development company, who Ill refer to as K, about a property investment opportunity. Mr J 
has said at the time his own company was incurring considerable losses due to Covid and 
he was open to other opportunities.
Mr J has said he confided in K about the financial government support he was receiving due 
to Covid. Hes added that K asked him if he wanted to invest and that he could offer good 
returns, he added that K was very persistent and persuasive. Alongside this Mr J has said 
that K offered him a consultancy position in his company, while the industry Mr Js own 
company was in, was closed due to Covid.
Mr J decided to invest and on 20 May 2020, using funds hed received from the government 
to support his own company, sent £50,000 from his HSBC account, to the account details 
that K provided.
Mr J has said that once hed sent the money, K started to distance himself from him at work. 
Hes said that K went on to say that the proposed sale of the properties, that Mr J had 
invested in, had fallen through, so the investment couldnt be returned at that time. Mr J says 
he still hasnt received his money back. Hes added that he also sent around 15 invoices to 
K, for the consultancy work he did, but six of these invoices remain outstanding.
Believing hed been scammed, Mr J raised the matter with HSBC. HSBC looked into things, 
but didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In summary, it didnt think Mr J had lost the money as the 
result of a bank error and it questioned whether Mr J had taken government support against 
scheme rules.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, through his representatives, Mr J then brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary she thought Mr J shouldve taken more precautions 
and done further research before sending the money. It was also our Investigators view that 
Mr J hadnt used the government support hed been provided with as he was supposed to.  
But our Investigator went on to say that on balance, she considered the matter to be a civil 
dispute, rather than a scam.
Mr J didnt agree with our Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed over to 
me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr J authorised the payment that left his account. But he alleges that 
he has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that Ks intent from 
the start was to deceive him. Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr J, and I can 
understand entirely why he feels so strongly that this money should be returned to him. But 
not all cases where individuals have lost money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code)
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams. But it excludes private civil disputes. 
Simply put, in order to find HSBC was somehow liable to Mr J under the CRM Code, Id 
need to find that the evidence was strong enough to show this had been a deliberate 
criminal scam from the outset rather than it being a private civil dispute between Mr J and K.
The question therefore, is whether K was acting fraudulently from the outset - deliberately 
setting out to deceive Mr J into making the payment he did with no intent of fulfilling the 
arrangement. Put another way that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it 
is most likely that K set out to defraud Mr J with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
So, to start, Ive considered whether K was running a scam. Theres a high legal threshold 
for this. Its clear the agreement Mr J entered into with K didnt go as Mr J thought it would 
and I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly about what has happened. But having 
considered everything provided by both Mr J and HSBC, Im not persuaded, from what Ive 
seen, that there is enough evidence to say that K set out with the intention to defraud. I say 
this because there appears to be a number of factors that dont carry the typical hallmarks of 
these particular types of scam or of a fraudster with an intention from the outset to defraud:
-Typically, investment scams involve a fake investment and/or a fake company and  
generally, the victim has no prior relationship with the fraudster other than the  
relationship built to discuss the investment itself. In this case, Mr J had known K 
personally.
-
-Im not persuaded there is evidence to show that the Ks company was anything 
other than legitimate at the time. Im not aware of any ongoing investigations against 
K or his company or that there have been any charges or offences bought. Im 
persuaded that the circumstances put forward by Mr J more likely lend themselves to 
an investment that went wrong with a company that ultimately ceased trading.-Mr J was taken on as a consultant by K and it doesnt seem in dispute that he carried 
out some work and received settlement for the majority of invoices that hed 
submitted. Im mindful that Mr J has said there are still some outstanding invoices, 
but it isnt typical for a fraudster to employ and pay somebody who they have 
targeted as a victim. It is also not usual for a fraudster to stay in close contact with a 
victim after they are in receipt of their money, nor to make payments to a victim in 
recompense for work carried out.
-Im not persuaded, from what Ive seen, that Mr J was pressured to invest. Rather,  
Mr J became interested after hearing, over a period of time, the opportunity K had. 
Indeed Mr J in his submissions has said that his circumstances at the time made him 
open to investment opportunities. It appears after the payment was made, K 
continued to communicate with Mr J and Mr J appeared to continue to work for K.  I 
understand Mr J has said K became more distant, but it is not typically the case with 
fraudsters to stay in any contact with their victims. More often than not, once in 
receipt of a victims money, they will no longer be contactable.
-It is also not typical for a fraudster to be so easily traceable and for them to ask for 
funds to be transferred into accounts held in their genuine name or in the name of a 
company in which they are a director, which Ive seen happened in this case.
-Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship, Ive also considered the beneficiary bank account, where Mr Js money 
was sent. The evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank doesnt raise any 
concerns that the account was being used for anything but legitimate purposes.
Overall, based on what Ive seen. Im currently not persuaded that this situation displays the 
hallmarks most typically associated with a scam. It follows that, I cant safely say that this 
would likely meet the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. This is not to say 
that there is no issue at all between Mr J and K. Clearly there is. But on balance, I havent 
found the evidence shows this was an APP scam covered by the CRM Code, so I do not find 
the code applicable to the payment Mr J sent. Neither do I otherwise find HSBC liable to 
refund Mr J for any other reason. I think it acted reasonably in investigating Mr Js claim  
and it did not reach an unreasonable or unfair outcome in deciding not to refund him.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish what Mr J has been through. He has my 
sympathy, in that he hasnt received the return on his investment as he thought he would.  
But overall, I dont think HSBC has treated Mr J unfairly by not refunding him the payment he 
made.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider by 24 November 2023.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr J didnt respond 
with any further information that he wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As HSBC has agreed with my provisional decisions and as Mr J hasnt provided anything 
new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I indicated in my 
provisional decision. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr J, but I remain of the view that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman