DRN-2680166
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount of additional premium he had to pay when he told Soteria 
Insurance Limited he had moved address.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Soteria, the policy initially cost £1,512.02 a year. 
In November 2020, Mr M contacted Soteria to change his address. Due to the change in 
address, Soteria said they were going to charge Mr M an additional £651.38 in premium and 
a £15 fee for making the changes.
Mr M wasnt happy with this  he said he only moved around 1.2 miles up the road from his 
previous address and so he shouldnt have been charged so much to insure his car at the 
new address. He says that other members of his household who are also insured at the 
same address havent been charged an additional premium.
Soteria responded to Mr Ms complaint to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
said that the additional premium it had charged was correct and this had been checked with 
its underwriters. However, it agreed to waive the £15 administration fee it would normally 
charge.
Mr M remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd reviewed information sent by Soteria and 
they didnt think it had acted unfairly when it increased the premium.
Mr M disagreed, he said that it cant be right to charge an extra 40% premium for moving 
only 1.2 miles down the road  and with only eight months of the term left. Mr M felt that he 
was being discriminated against as a young driver.
Because Mr M disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M said that he didn't move far from his previous address and so given the increase in Mr 
Ms premium, I can understand why hes unhappy. 
It's normal for insurers to consider that different addresses - even when fairly close together 
- pose a different risk for which they may charge a different premium. So, Soteria increasing 
Mr Ms premium, doesn't in isolation mean it has treated him unfairly.
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or 
how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at 
Soterias information about Mr Ms premiums both before and after he changed address. 
And I've looked to see how those have changed. 
The information Soteria has used to price Mr Ms policy is commercially sensitive so I can't 
share that with him. But I can see the premiums it charged took into account the change in 
address, which resulted in the extra premium. While Mr M might find that unfair, it's not for 
me to tell Soteria how it should rate risks at certain addresses. Nor can I tell it to change the 
way it considers those risks. 
But from looking at the information it has provided, I think Soteria has treated Mr M in the 
same way that it would other customers in similar circumstances. 
Mr M has told us that other members of his family, that have also moved to the same 
address, didn't have their premiums increased when they notified their insurer of the change 
in address. I dont doubt what Mr M has said here, but from what I understand, the family 
members he has referred to dont have their vehicles insured by Soteria. 
As Ive said, different insurers will each make their own assessment of the risks theyre 
asked to cover. The fact that one insurer might rate a risk as being higher than another 
doesn't automatically mean that the insurer who charges a higher premium as a result has 
acted unfairly. So this doesnt lead me to find that Soteria did anything wrong, or didnt treat 
Mr M in the same way it would its other customers. It follows that, as Im satisfied that 
Soteria increased Mr Ms premium in line with its internal guidance and I think its treated him 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman