DRN-4458062
The complaint
Mr V complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly registered a fraud marker 
against him. 
What happened
In May 2022, Barclays restricted Mr Vs account and asked him for source of funds 
information relating to a payment of £1,000 that hed received into his account. Mr V called 
Barclays and said the payment was in relation to the sale of shoes he had arranged through 
a social media platform and conducted in person with the buyer. 
Following its review, Barclays sent a letter on 23 May 2022 saying it had decided to close his 
account with immediate effect. Barclays registered a CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System) misuse of facility marker against him. Some time later, Mr V was unable 
to open a new bank account. So he complained to Barclays. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint about the fraud marker. In its response of February 
2023, it made the following key points: 
- In line with banking regulations, Barclays has an obligation to report incidences such 
as this on the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS)
- Barclays reviewed further information Mr V provided. But it cant remove the 
information its registered 
- Banks are not allowed to decline an application based solely on the information 
Barclays have provided. So Mr V should contact the banks who have declined his 
application to seek further clarity on why it made that decision 
Mr V referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr V says that in April 2022, after meeting some people at a party in a mansion, he stayed 
with them and later as he was invited, he lived with them at their home. Mr V says he was 
going through a difficult time personally and needed somewhere to live. Mr V says he 
befriended these three individuals who were a lot older than him. 
Mr V says he later learnt he was the only person living at the property with a bank account. 
Because of this he was asked by these individuals to accept money into his Barclays 
account on their behalf. Mr V said he felt obligated to do so because they were letting him 
live at their property free of charge. 
He adds that he did feel sceptical as he had been the victim of fraud previously a few years 
before. But he was reassured that the funds were legitimate as they were coming from a 
business account to purchase building materials. Mr V says the individuals wanted the 
money in cash and he shouldve seen this as a red flag at the time. He says he sometimes 
withdrew the money from ATMs, and at times transferred the funds sent to him into another 
of his accounts before sending to external accounts. All of this was done in line with the 
individuals instructions. 
Mr V says around £7,000 was deposited into his account in this way. But later, without 
forewarning and his consent, a £1,000 payment from a private individual was paid into his 
account. He says he was told by this group of individuals to lie to Barclays after it had 
blocked his account, and say the funds were from the sale of shoes. Mr V says he felt 
pressured and somewhat scared as the individuals were older than him and had spoken 
about being involved in gang like criminal activities.
Mr V has explained that the fraud marker has had a significant and detrimental impact on his 
life. As hes unable to open another account for his salary to be paid into. He says this has 
had acute negative impact on his mental health too. 
Mr V also explained the individuals he lived with appear to have also stolen his personal 
identification documents to hire cars for which he is now being chased for significant 
payments for fines theyd incurred. 
Mr V says hes unable to deposit a cheque from HMRC for his tax refund as he doesnt have 
an account. Hes also missed several payments for his credit card adversely impacting his 
credit file. Mr V says hes relatively young and finds it untenable to be in this position.    
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint. They spoke and corresponded with 
Mr V several times. In short, Mr V added: 
- He lived at the home of the individuals from around March 2022 until 
September/October 2022. Mr V never asked them why they didnt have bank 
accounts of their own
- He couldnt remember some of the payments hed made at the time as it was a long 
time ago 
- He was first asked to receive a payment for one of the individuals girlfriends. And as 
they now knew his bank details, they started transferring money into his account 
without his consent or knowledge 
- He was paid between £50 to £100 by the group of individuals when he withdrew the 
funds as a thank you
- The individuals werent good citizens as they had spoken about illegitimate activities 
theyd been involved in the past - and were known gang members. Because of this 
he was scared to report them or do anything about it 
- Mr V was at the mansion party for around eight days in April 2022 where he met the 
group of three individuals. And that it was in April 2022 when the girlfriend of one of 
the individuals sent him money 
After considering information from both Mr V and Barclays, our Investigator recommended 
this complaint isnt upheld. In summary, they found: 
- Barclays complied with its obligations when applying the CIFAS marker
- They dont doubt Mr V felt pressured into aiding the individuals he was living with at 
the time. But they cant conclude he was unwitting in the activity on his account. Mr V 
fabricated a story about some of the transactions, and wasnt therefore honest with 
Barclays when it questioned him- And they thought, at the very least, Mr V would have had some idea as to what was 
going on and what he was involved in  
Mr V didnt agree. He emphasised he wasnt witting, and that he was under extreme 
pressure as the individuals had also taken his driving licence. He says hes now built up his 
confidence to be honest about what happened. He adds that one of the individuals had also 
threatened his life for an unrelated issue previously and he has since discovered that various 
identity frauds have been committed against him.  
Our Investigator empathised with Mr Vs circumstances but reiterated that they think he had 
some inkling of what was happening wasnt right.
As Mr V didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr V feels strongly about 
this matter, and I dont undervalue the impact of what he says this has had on him. So Ill 
explain why. 
The marker Barclays filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds.
In order to file such a marker, Barclays is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
Mr V is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Vs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Having 
looked at the information Barclays have given me; Im satisfied fraudulent funds entered 
Mr Vs account.
Secondly, Barclays will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Barclays has 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for a misuse of facility with 
CIFAS.
Mr V has explained that he made up a false story when Barclays restricted his account and 
asked him about a payment. In that he was selling shoes to someone he met through a 
social media platform. He says he did this because he was told to by the individuals he was 
living with. He says they were orchestrating the transfer of funds into and out of his account 
after hed met them at a party in 2022. Mr Vs also said he should have seen this as a red flag given hed been the victim of similar 
fraud some five or six years before. Mr V says he was paid between £50 and £100 as a 
thank you for helping these individuals when withdrawing funds for them. 
Mr V had been living with these group of individuals for around seven or eight months, and 
he has said he knew they had a background of being involved in illegal activities. 
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded Mr V was more likely to have been witting and 
knew the funds were likely the proceeds of fraud. Id add that given his previous experience 
of having his account used in this way, and given he likely had more than ample opportunity 
to do something about alerting Barclays or the police of what was happening, Im persuaded 
he chose to be complicit. 
Mr V is effectively saying he was used as a money mule. What that means is that he let 
others use his account for fraud. Ive noted what Mr V has said about his young age, and 
whether this shouldve been considered by Barclays before it registered the fraud marker. 
Ive also carefully considered what hes said about being pressured by these individuals and 
being fearful of them.  
Having done so and having listened to the calls between Mr V and Barclays and this service, 
Im not satisfied his age and potential vulnerability is likely a factor here. I say that because 
Mr V understood how his bank account works and what letting others use it in this way could 
result in. So I think he understood well what the consequences of this could be and knew 
that it was most probably being used for illegitimate purposes. 
I also add that having listened to the call in which he set-out the fabricated story of selling 
shoes, he appears calm and there doesnt seem to be anyone telling him what to say in the 
background. The fact he has been inconsistent, and somewhat evasive, leads me to the 
conclusion that he was deliberately concealing something he knew was improper or illicit.
So, after weighing all of this up, Im satisfied Barclays applied the marker fairly. That means I 
wont be asking Barclays to remove the marker. Mr V hasnt complained about the account 
being restricted or closed, so this isnt something Ive considered here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman