DRN-2891771
The complaint
Mr N complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund a payment that he made 
for watch that wasnt as described and which he sent back to the seller.
What happened
Mr N purchased a watch for £1,650 using PayPal on 18 December 2020. He says that the 
watch wasnt the one he ordered and contacted PayPal. It told him to try and resolve things 
with the seller first. He says he did and returned the item and didnt get a refund.
PayPal said that it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that under the terms of its Buyer 
Protection, Mr N would need to show that the watch was significantly not as described 
(SNAD). He had been unable to do so. Mr N had returned it before it completed an 
investigation and the seller had said that the item that had been sent back was a water 
bottle. In the final response to his complaint it said that as he sent the item back without 
PayPals direction he took the risk for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Mr N was 
subject to a user agreement with PayPal. This said that under certain circumstances Mr N 
may be eligible for Buyer Protection and this included where an item was SNAD. The terms 
of the agreement required him to Attempt to contact the seller to resolve your issue directly 
before filing a claim under PayPal buyer protection through the Resolution Centre. If that 
didnt resolve the issue and he made a claim he would need to comply with the following:
The steps you must follow are described below, and if you do not follow these steps your
claim may be declined Comply with PayPal's shipping requests in a timely manner, if
you're filing a Significantly Not as Described claim. PayPal may require you, at your
expense, to ship the item back to the seller, to PayPal or to a third party (which will be
specified by PayPal) and to provide proof of delivery.
Mr N said he sent the watch back before PayPal had required him to do so as part of its 
process. So, it was unable to establish that the item was SNAD. The pictures Mr N had now 
sent of two watches from the sellers online website didnt establish that he had as he 
claimed received one worth only £950  rather than the one he ordered. And although hed 
shown he sent a parcel back to the seller, the only image he had of this was one showing 
the label with the weight  not of what was inside  and the seller said it didnt receive it 
back. Our investigator said our role was to consider whether PayPal had considered the 
claim fairly in line with the terms and conditions and he thought it had.
Mr N didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that PayPal had told 
him to contact the seller and thats what he did. He asked how he was to know that it 
wouldnt give him a refund. He said that a water bottle doesnt weigh between the one and 
two kilogrammes on the return label. So, this couldnt have been what was sent back the 
packing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to resolve exactly what happened here between Mr N and the seller. I am 
looking at the terms of the agreement Mr N had with PayPal and the extent of the Buyer 
Protection available to him. And whether PayPal applied that agreement fairly. And Ive 
taken into account what Mr N has since provided about the watch he says he received and 
its return.
The basis for Mr Ns claim was that the watch wasnt the one he ordered. He says that the 
one he was sent was worth £700 less. Hes aware he hasnt got any specific evidence to 
show what he actually received. He was required to try and resolve this with the seller. He 
hasnt shown it accepted it had sent him the wrong watch either. But that he sent a package 
back and this was marked as delivered to the seller on 4 January 2021. The seller says that 
he only sent back a water bottle. I cant infer from the label showing the parcel label what 
was or wasnt included and Mr N has nothing further to show that he did return a watch that 
was SNAD.
Hes right to say he was asked by PayPal to try and resolve things with the seller first and as 
our investigator has pointed out thats in line with the terms and conditions. PayPal says that 
the first issue is that Mr N couldnt demonstrate that the watch was SNAD  the basis for his 
claim. And also, now that he couldnt prove that such a watch had been returned as it wasnt 
sent back under the terms of Buyer Protection. Im afraid I think it has applied the terms of its 
own agreement correctly and I cant reasonably require it to go further than those here. So, 
although I understand Mr Ns position on this complaint I dont have a basis to find that 
PayPal has made a mistake or acted unfairly. I wont be requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman