DRN-4085310
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC dealt with a claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Her daughter, Mrs A, is assisting her in bringing the complaint. Reference 
to Zurich includes its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs M had a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Zurich to cover a trip with intended departure and return dates of 12 September 2022 
and 26 September 2022 respectively. During the evening of 14 September 2022, Mrs M 
fell in the hotel she was staying in and was injured. She went by ambulance to a local 
hospital, and it was established that she had broken her hip and needed an operation. 
The local hospital couldnt carry out the operation and Mrs M needed to be moved for 
treatment.
On 15 September 2022, Mrs A phoned Zurich from the UK on Mrs Ms behalf in order to 
make a claim against the policy in relation to emergency medical treatment. On the 
same date, Zurich sent confirmation of benefits to the hospital and asked for a medical 
report.  
On 16 September 2022, Mrs A contacted Zurich again and told it that the treating doctor 
had talked about moving Mrs M to a private facility for treatment. Zurich told Mrs A that it 
needed the medical report from the treating doctor to assess whether that was medically 
necessary. It contacted the hospital again for a medical report. 
On 17 September 2022, both Mrs A and her husband contacted Zurich. Zurich chased 
the hospital for the medical report. Mrs A was worried about Mrs Ms condition and the 
poor care she was receiving in the hospital, so she contacted a private clinic in Mrs Ms 
location and arranged for Mrs M to be moved there for treatment. 
On 18 September 2022, Mrs M moved to the private clinic and paid €15,000 in advance 
of treatment, which Mrs A arranged partly from family sources. On the same date, Zurich 
authorised the treatment at the private clinic and on 19 September 2022, it told Mrs A 
that it had done so. The treating clinic declined Zurichs request to refund the payment to   
Mrs M and accept its guarantee of payment. Mrs M had an operation on                        
19 September 2022.  
On 26 September 2022, the treating hospital asked Mrs A for further payment, which she 
declined. Zurich arranged repatriation flights and a medical escort for                             
28 September 2022. Mrs M arrived home in the early hours of 29 September 2022, after 
a difficult journey.   
Mrs M completed a claim form and in late November 2022, Zurich settled Mrs Ms claim.  
Essentially, Mrs M says that Zurich delayed in confirming cover for her treatment which 
meant that she had to make her own arrangements and pay for treatment in advance, 
which shouldnt have been necessary. She also says that Zurich failed to make proper 
arrangements for her repatriation and elements of her personal care were not attended 
to. She wants compensation for distress.
In response to the complaint, Zurich apologised for the delay in processing Mrs Ms 
claim and the communication difficulties. It paid Mrs M compensation of £500. Mrs M 
didnt think that was sufficient and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Zurich acted fairly 
in waiting for medical information. The investigator said that on 19 September 2022, 
Zurich told Mrs A that it would pay the hospital bill but subsequently couldnt arrange a 
refund with the hospital. She said that Zurich wasnt responsible for any poor treatment 
Mrs M received at the hospital. The investigator said that Zurich didnt settle Mrs Ms 
claim within a reasonable time, which caused stress and had financial implications. The 
investigator said that Zurichs payment of compensation of £500 was fair.
Mrs A responded on Mrs Ms behalf. She didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs A said 
that Zurich was responsible for the delays in the hospital providing the medical report. 
She said that she spoke with the treating doctors daily and they said that Zurich hadnt 
asked for information. Mrs A said that they decided to arrange for Mrs M to go to a 
private clinic as the care she received in the hospital was poor. 
Mrs A, on Mrs Ms behalf, asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs A has very strong feelings about this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions to support Mrs Ms complaint, which I have read and considered. Im conscious 
that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short narrative. That 
reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive 
captured the essence of what happened. 
I trust that neither Mrs M nor Mrs A will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I 
consider to be the central issue, that is whether Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in its 
handling of Mrs Ms claim. Mrs M is the insured here and I can only consider how Zurichs 
actions affected her, not her family. But I appreciate that the reality is that Mrs A was very 
involved and understandably concerned about Mrs Ms care. the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Section 6
Medical emergency expenses
This is not a private health insurance policy. We will pay for private treatment only if 
there is no appropriate reciprocal health agreement in existence and no public 
services available and we reserve the right to organise a transfer from a private 
medical facility to a public medical facility where appropriate.
[]
Before a claim for emergency expenses can be submitted under this section, you 
must have contacted Zurich Assist as soon as you are hospitalised []
YOU ARE COVERED
Up to £15,000,000 for costs incurred outside your home country
1) for reasonable and necessary medical and surgical treatment as prescribed by a medical 
practitioner. []
2) for reasonable and necessary additional accommodation (room only) and travelling 
expenses (economy class), including those of one relative or friend if you have to be 
accompanied home on medical advice []. You must have our permission to do this.
[]
6) up to £25 for each 24 hour period that you are in hospital as an in-patient during the 
journey.
[]
YOU ARE NOT COVERED
[]
3) for any expense incurred for illness, injury or treatment required as a result of:
a)surgery for medical treatment which in the opinion of the attending doctor and the Zurich 
Assist doctor can be reasonably delayed until your return to your home country
[]
5) for claims that are not confirmed as medically necessary by the attending doctor or Zurich 
Assist.
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Zurich has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding   
Mrs Ms complaint because I think that the compensation Zurich has already paid is fair and 
reasonable. I say that because:   
Mrs Ms policy covers reasonable and necessary medical and surgical treatment, as 
prescribed by a medical practitioner, and covers private treatment only if there are no 
public services available. I dont think that Zurich was at fault in requesting medical 
information from Mrs Ms treating doctors or in enquiring about the availability of 
public services. Ive looked carefully at Zurichs contemporaneous notes of Mrs Ms claim. When   
Mrs A first contacted Zurich about Mrs Ms claim, it asked the treating hospital for a 
medical report on the same day and repeated that request several times. It didnt 
receive a prompt response from the treating hospital. I appreciate that Mrs A says 
that she spoke with the treating doctors daily and they said that Zurich hadnt asked 
for information. Individual doctors may not know what requests have been made to 
the hospital. I can see that Zurich made the requests in a timely way. Zurich isnt 
responsible for the quality of care provided by the first hospital Mrs M was in or for its 
delay in providing necessary information. 
 
Having said that, there are instances of poor communication on Zurichs part. Its 
records show that on 17 September 2022, one of Zurichs medical team reviewed the 
matter and said that if it was unable to locate another public facility within 24 hours,  
Mrs Ms move to a private facility would be approved. Zurich made appropriate 
enquiries along those lines, but it didnt communicate that to Mrs A. Its not clear to 
me whether doing so would have altered the outcome here, as both Mrs M and Mrs A 
were clearly concerned about the care Mrs M was receiving at the hospital and may 
have decided to move to the private facility in any event, rather than wait for Zurich to 
arrange it. 
I can see that on 18 September 2022, Zurich authorised Mrs Ms treatment at the 
private clinic and it told Mrs A about that on 19 September 2022. So, Mrs M wasnt 
worried about whether her treatment was covered. But the private clinic required 
payment in advance and subsequently wouldnt refund Mrs Ms payment or accept 
Zurichs guarantee of payment. Those matters are outside Zurichs control. It was no 
doubt difficult for Mrs M to arrange payment of €15,000 in the circumstances she was 
in and at such short notice.  
Whilst Zurich isnt responsible for the treating clinics decisions about payment, it is 
responsible for delay in settling the claim. Its not clear to me why it took so long to 
settle Mrs Ms claim. Mrs M completed a claim form in late September 2022, but 
Zurich didnt settle the claim until late November 2022. That no doubt caused Mrs M 
distress, as shed borrowed money from family members in order to make the 
payment. 
Mrs M has also complained about elements of personal care on her repatriation 
journey. Zurich arranged repatriation and a medical escort. I dont think it needed to 
do any more than that. I think it was open to Mrs M to raise care issues with the 
medical staff before she left the clinic or the medical escort, as required. I appreciate 
the whole matter was distressing for her. 
In all the circumstances, based on what Ive seen, I think that Zurichs payment of 
compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable. In reaching that view Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Zurichs errors in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint as I think that the payment Zurich 
has already made is fair and reasonable.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman