DRN-2533475
The complaint
Mr B and Ms C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a curtailment claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms C took out a travel insurance policy through a broker, which was underwritten 
by AXA. They travelled on a back-packing trip abroad. However, on 23 March 2020, the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised all British nationals abroad to return to the 
UK, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So Mr B and Ms C organised a return flight from 
the country they were staying in and flew back to the UK on 28 March 2020. They made a 
curtailment claim for the cost of their return flights.
AXA investigated the claim. It asked Mr B and Ms C for information about their original trip, 
so it could consider any unused, pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses 
associated with the cutting short of Mr B and Ms Cs trip. Mr B and Ms C told AXA that they 
booked travel and accommodation for their trip around one week before they needed it. This 
meant they didnt have a pre-booked return flight to the UK. They said their claim was simply 
for the cost of the flight theyd taken on 28 March 2020 and which theyd arranged following 
the FCO advice.
On this basis, AXA turned down the claim. Thats because it said the curtailment section of 
the policy only covered unused, pre-paid travel and accommodation charges. As Mr B and 
Ms C didnt have a return flight already booked, it said there was no cover for these flight 
costs under the policy.
Mr B and Ms C were unhappy with AXAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr B and Ms Cs claim. She felt that 
as Mr B and Ms C didnt have a pre-booked return flight, they didnt have any pre-paid travel 
charges which the policy would cover.
Mr B and Ms C disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. I understand 
that the broker who sold the policy has offered them a pro-rata refund of their policy 
premium, which Mr B and Ms C have accepted. I wont be considering this issue within this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr B and Ms Cs curtailment claim. 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Ive first looked closely at the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr B and Ms Cs 
contract with AXA. As Mr B and Ms C returned home a few months earlier than theyd 
planned, I think it was appropriate for AXA to consider the claim under the Cancelling or 
Cutting Short a Trip section of the policy.
This says:
What is covered 
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion only 
of your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges if you need to cancel or cut short your trip following any of the reasons which are 
shown in the table below. (Bold is my emphasis).
The policy does cover a policyholder cutting short their trip if the FCO advises against all but 
essential travel. Theres no dispute that Mr B and Ms C cut short their trip following the FCO 
advice issued on 23 March 2020 and so I can understand why they felt AXA should deal with 
their claim under this section of the policy. 
However, I think the policy clearly explains that AXA will only pay for unused, pre-paid travel 
and accommodation expenses. In this case, Mr B and Ms C told us that they didnt have pre-
booked, pre-paid travel or accommodation expenses, because they booked things around 
one week in advance. They also didnt have a pre-booked, pre-paid return flight booked. It 
follows that they hadnt paid any money for accommodation or travel which they werent able 
to use as result of cutting their trip short. This means that while I appreciate they returned to 
the UK earlier than they planned, I dont find that Mr B or Ms C had any pre-booked, pre-paid 
travel or accommodation expenses for AXA to consider and settle. 
I understand Mr B and Ms C paid a significant amount for their flights back to the UK on 28 
March 2020 and I sympathise with their position. But Mr B and Ms C would always have had 
to pay to return to the UK, even if they hadnt had to cut short their trip. So while they may 
have paid more for their return flight, given the pandemic situation, than theyd otherwise 
have done, I dont think it would be fair for me to find that AXA ought to pay for them under 
the curtailment section of the policy. And theres no other section of the policy which covers 
Mr B and Ms Cs situation. I appreciate Mr B and Ms C feel that AXA should consider the 
claim under the medical emergency and repatriation expenses cover  but this is designed 
to cover a policyholders unforeseen illness or injury, or compulsory quarantine. The 
circumstances of Mr B and Ms Cs claim simply dont fall within the scope of this cover.
Overall, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr B and Ms Cs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman