DRN-3492710
The complaint
Mr N complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out reviews on his whole of life 
policy and he didnt receive annual statements which meant he had been paying for a policy 
he didnt need. 
Mr N is represented in the complaint by Ms S but for clarity I will refer to Mr N throughout, 
rather than his representative.  
What happened
Mr N took out a TSB Options Plan in June 1990. The plan was a whole of life policy 
providing life cover of £1,250 for an initial monthly premium of £25, subject to contractual 
reviews. 
Mr N complained that Scottish Widows failed to carry out reviews and he hadnt received 
annual statements. Scottish Widows considered Mr Ns concerns but didnt uphold the 
complaint. In short, it said, Mr N had made a withdrawal of £6,400 from his fund in October 
2007. The investment amount withdrawn was higher than the life cover benefit and so there 
was no longer a life cover benefit on the policy. 
Due to the passage of time it didnt have copies of review letters prior to 2006 but explained 
that a review letter sent in March 1997 confirmed that life cover was still maintained by the 
monthly premium. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary he said Scottish 
Widows were not obligated to carry out contractual reviews following Mr Ns withdrawal in 
2007. He also said that due to a system update Scottish Widows were unable to provide 
statements it had sent prior to May 2019 but he didnt think Mr N had lost out financially as 
his premiums, following the withdrawal, were essentially going towards savings. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons.  
Mr N took out the policy in 1990, Ive reviewed the point of sale documents including the 
terms and conditions and Im satisfied that it was clear the policy would be reviewed. The 
product literature explains TSB will review your Plan automatically every 5 years (or every 
year if you are aged 70 or older) in order to ensure that it will continue to provide the benefits 
you have chosen. 
The policy was taken out over 30 years ago and so, unsurprisingly there is limited 
information about the policy. Under these circumstances I need to consider on balance, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy of the review letter that was carried out in March 1997 which explained that 
a review of the plan had recently taken place. At this point, Mr Ns level of life cover was still 
maintained by his monthly premium of £25 and so the next automatic review was due in 
June 2000. 
As Ive explained, Ive not been provided with evidence of further reviews having taken 
place, but I am satisfied a review of the policy had taken place, so I think its more likely that 
reviews were carried out. 
In any event, Mr N went on to make a partial withdrawal in October 2007. Ive seen a copy of 
the letter that was sent to Mr N following this which explained that the life benefit had been 
cancelled as the withdrawal amount was greater than the amount of benefit in the plan. 
Because of this I cant fairly say that policy reviews were required because there was no 
need to assess whether the premium paid was sufficient to cover a benefit which was no 
longer payable.   
Mr N has said he hadnt received any annual statements for the policy. Scottish Widows has 
explained it changed its systems in May 2019 and because of this it is unable to provide 
copies of statements before then. I dont doubt what Mr N has said but I am satisfied that Mr 
N was aware he had a policy in place and following his withdrawal he was made aware that 
hed continue paying a monthly premium of £25. 
I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest Mr N contacted the business 
requesting statements or enquiring about his account. I do think the responsibility of 
managing his financial affairs sits with Mr N and so if he hadnt received information about 
his policy, I think its reasonable to suggest Mr N couldve enquired about this. 
Mr N has said he wouldve cancelled his policy if he had received annual statements; I can 
see in March 2022 Mr N called Scottish Widows and requested to cancel the policy, but this 
wasnt following receipt of a statement. I cant fairly conclude that Mr N wasnt able to cancel 
his policy sooner than he did as a result of not receiving statements.    
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr N wanted but Im not persuaded that Scottish Widows 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman