DRN-1325437
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) didnt complete all of the necessary 
repairs to his car after it was damaged in an accident in July 2019
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Rs car was involved in a road traffic collision. Mr Rs car suffered a direct 
impact to the drivers side front (off-side) when it was hit by another vehicle. Ageas carried 
out repairs to the drivers side front of the car through their authorised garage. Mr Rs car 
was returned to him after the repairs. 
In September 2019 Mr R took his car to the relevant dealership for a service, where he was 
advised that some urgent repairs were required. The repairs included the near side front 
suspension components. Mr R said this was the first time hed become aware of the 
problems with the suspension. 
Mr R believes  Ageas should have noticed the problems with the suspension, and fixed this, 
as part of his claim. He feels the damage was caused by the impact from the accident and 
Ageas just didnt notice it when it should have. To evidence his concerns, Mr R provided 
Ageas with a video of the health check assessment carried out by the dealerships engineer, 
which detailed the issues it had found with the car. Because of this, Ageas carried out a 
second assessment of the car, to see whether it had missed any repairs that were caused by 
the accident
Following this, Ageas said there was no evidence the damage to the suspension had been 
caused by the accident leading to the claim. And it was satisfied it had carried out the correct 
repairs to Mr Rs car.
Mr R didnt agree with Ageas and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigators view was Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. The investigator noted the 
pre-repair images of the car, and the initial assessment carried out by Ageas were consistent 
with an impact to the drivers side front. And said this didnt appear to be severe enough to 
have caused damage to the suspension components or the near side front of the car. The 
investigator also noted that this seemed reasonable, as the suspension arms are not 
connected to each other - rather they were connected to the centre of the car. And the 
impact would generally have to be quite significant for the damage to affect the opposite side 
suspension. 
Our investigator also noted a previous MOT in 2018 on Mr Rs vehicle, where an advisory 
was listed as near side front upper suspension arm rubber bush had deteriorated. She noted 
this confirmed this problem was highlighted over a year before the accident. The 
deteriorated rubber bush wouldve compromised the suspension function causing the 
suspension arm to rub when going over bumps or uneven surfaces. Over a period of time its 
likely this bent and damaged the suspension arm. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, and his complaint was given to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
When making my decision, Ive taken into consideration whether Ageas have handled Mr Rs 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner. And whether they carried out all the repairs to Mr Rs 
car that were a result of damage caused by the accident. 
Ive watched the dealerships engineers video report (with commentary) as this appears to 
be the reason Mr R thought his vehicle was more severely damaged in the accident in July 
2019 than originally thought. 
The dealerships engineer indicates that Mr Rs car had several faults. Including damage to 
the suspension arms and the rubber bush on the near side front of the car. But I dont think 
this report contained any suggestion that the cause of the problems with these components 
was due to the accident or incomplete repair actions of Mr Rs insurer - as suggested by    
Mr R. 
The engineer does refer to damage being caused by the metal in the suspension arm 
rubbing against each other, creating a groove in the arms. I understand this to mean the 
damage was caused by wear and tear, from one component rubbing against another over an 
extended period. So, I dont think this information provides sufficient evidence to show 
Ageas missed any accident related damage when initially assessing and repairing Mr Rs 
car.
Ive also considered the findings of the engineers report from the second assessment 
carried out by Ageas too. From this I can see the vehicle had been driven 800-miles 
between the collision and the service check. I also note Ageas engineers remarks that if the 
damage to the suspension had been as a result of the collision in July 2019, there would 
have been a heavy mechanical knock from metal on metal, and a grinding noise when the 
vehicle was turned left or right. 
Ageass engineer also reported that the left front lower suspension arm had received an 
impact to the centre, and the left front wheel bearing had been wearing against this for some 
time. It had worn a groove into the lower arm. He noted there was nothing at the accident 
location that could have impacted this lower arm and it could not have been caused as a 
result of the impact damage. And as part of the inspection a road test was also carried out. 
The engineer confirmed the vehicle drove and broke as it should.
The report explains the amount of wear on the lower arm and the suspension bearing 
housing, happened over a considerable period. And this has caused the components to rub 
together to the extent that they no longer touch. This is in keeping with the video report Mr R 
supplied from the service the car had. And explains why Mr R didnt notice any mechanical 
knocking or metal grinding sound in the car following the accident.
I understand the noise would have been evident had the suspension been caused by the 
impact of the accident. 
Ive also considered the MOTs on Mr Rs vehicle and can see the following advisory notes. 19 April 2018 - Nearside Front Upper Suspension arm rubber bush deteriorated but 
not resulting in excessive movement both upper arms inner bushes.
7 October 2019 - Offside Front Lower Suspension arm pin or bush worn but not 
resulting in excessive movement.
 
Both MOTs refer to either deterioration, or parts having been worn - whether nearside, or 
offside. The advisory note in 2018 shows a pre-existing wear and tear to the suspension. 
And the 2019 MOT, after the collision, confirms the detail given in both the dealerships, and 
Ageas reports. 
I understand Mr R feels he wasnt treated fairly. But, based on the above evidence, I 
conclude any damage to the vehicles suspension is more likely to have been caused by 
wear and tear, rather than in the car accident. Given this, Im satisfied Ageas acted 
reasonably when it initially assessed and repaired Mr Rs car. And when declining to fix the 
suspension problems.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. And I dont require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman