DRN-3107787
The complaint
Mrs H complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the premiums 
she paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 27 February 2020, to cover trips worldwide of up to 50 days 
duration. The policy started on 26 May 2020 and ended on 25 May 2021. 
Mrs H paid a total of £92.02 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her for a declared medical 
condition. She also took out travel disruption extension cover at a cost of £18.33 excluding 
IPT. In total, Mrs H paid £132.41 for her policy.
While Mrs H had a number of holidays planned for 2020, they were cancelled due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. So, on 5 August 2020, she contacted Great Lakes to ask it to freeze her 
travel policy. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs H that a full refund couldnt be provided as her cooling off period 
had expired. And it said freezing the policy wasnt possible. Instead, Great Lakes offered Mrs 
H pro rata credit towards the cost of purchasing either a new policy of 15 months for the 
price of 12 or a deferred annual policy. But Mrs H wanted a cash refund and, unhappy with 
Great Lakes offers, Mrs H cancelled her policy and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators investigated and considered Mrs Hs complaint, who acknowledged 
the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 26 May 2020 and the 
policy covered various risks during that time. However, they recommended upholding this 
complaint because they didnt think the complaint resolution that Great Lakes had offered 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Our investigator recommended that Great Lakes issue a pro rata credit voucher to Mrs H 
that recognised the length of time shed been on cover. Great Lakes agreed with our 
investigators view of this complaint and proposed to issue Mrs H with a credit voucher for 
£106.65. But Mrs H didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore 
been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs H to receive a full refund of 
the premiums she requested because: 
The 14 day cooling off period commenced on the date the policy was purchased as 
confirmed in the policy terms and conditions. So, Mrs H had until 12 March 2020 to 
cancel her policy and receive a refund of the policy she had paid. Im satisfied Mrs H 
was reasonably made aware of the cancellation terms that applied to her policy, 
which are typical of those found in most travel insurance policies.
Mrs H didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss the impact of the pandemic on her policy 
until 5 August 2020. And on this date she asked it to freeze her policy as she wasnt 
able to travel. As Great Lakes said it wasnt able to do what Mrs H wanted, she 
cancelled her policy.
Ive seen evidence showing that Great Lakes cancelled Mrs Hs policy on 5 August 
2020 in accordance with her instructions. However, this was outside the cooling off 
period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant industry rules 
and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I understand why any travel plans which Mrs H might have had during the policy year 
changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So, Ive thought about whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs Hs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  this is because cover under the 
policy started on 26 May 2020.Mrs H was insured from 26 May 2020 for travelling on any number of worldwide trips 
of up to 50 days duration which she may have taken until the policy expired. Shes 
said she wasnt able to travel abroad while covered by this policy due to the 
pandemic. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since 
their policy was incepted. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs H for the cancellation of any holidays 
which she had booked and was due to take from 26 May 2020 until 25 May 2021. So, 
she would have been covered if she had had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, her 
falling ill with her declared pre-existing medical condition. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs H contacted Great Lakes on 
5 August 2020 to ask it to freeze her policy. By this time, her policy had 294 days left 
to run before it expired.  
Great Lakes cancelled Mrs Hs policy on 5 August 2020. So, it covered the risk of 
Mrs H making a successful cancellation claim for any number of pre-booked 
holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 26 May 2020 until 5 
August 2020. So, regardless of what Mrs Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered.
However, after Mrs Hs policy was cancelled, Great Lakes was no longer bearing any 
risk of a successful claim being made. Like our investigator, I think it would be 
reasonable for Great Lakes to refund the equivalent to 294 days of unused cover. 
Ive already mentioned that Mrs H paid for optional travel disruption extension cover. 
This cover includes extended cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, 
travel delay and enforced stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the 
risk of a claim under the optional travel disruption extension cover from 5 August 
2020. So, it would be fair and reasonable for her to receive a pro-rata refund of the 
premium she paid for this cover.
Great Lakes has told our service its prepared to refund Mrs H £106.65. Ive carefully 
checked the calculation its provided our investigator and can see that its reached 
that figure by dividing the sum Mrs H paid by the total cover length (365 days). Its 
then multiplied that value by the number of days Mrs H wasnt on risk (294 days)  
giving a refund of £106.65. I cant fairly find that this approach is unfair.
Great Lakes has said its intending to send Mrs H a pro rata credit voucher, which is 
valid for 36 months. Its also stated that Mrs H can either use the voucher towards 
the cost of another annual multi trip policy or transfer it to a third party. But Mrs H has 
told our service she wants a cash refund instead of a voucher.
Mrs H has told our investigator that shes unlikely to purchase another annual multi-
trip policy because she doesnt intend to travel as extensively in the future. Shes 
also said shes well enough to travel abroad in the future. So, theres no evidence to 
suggest that her health might preclude future travel.
While I can appreciate why a cash settlement might be preferable to Mrs H, our 
service would typically view a voucher refund as a fair resolution to this complaint. I 
say this because the validity period of the voucher provides a reasonable period within which a consumer can use it towards future travel insurance policies they may 
wish to take out. Its also transferrable. So, the voucher isnt unreasonably restrictive. 
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that there are any exceptional 
circumstances that persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a cash refund here. 
And, in offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes has departed 
from industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mrs H because of the 
unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs H has provided quotes showing the cost of annual multi trip travel insurance 
policies provided by Great Lakes. I can see that these are priced at less than the 
amount of the voucher shes been offered by Great Lakes. Ive clarified with Great 
Lakes that, in the event that the policy Mrs H purchases costs less than the credit 
voucher, any surplus will be rolled over and available to spent on another policy. I 
cant fairly find that this is unreasonable.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should send Mrs H a credit voucher in the sum of 
£106.65 for the reasons outlined. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve Mrs Hs complaint, Great Lakes 
Insurance SE should send her a voucher for £106.65.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman