DRN-1654980
Complaint
Mr L says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is two high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Uncle Buck provided 
to Mr L in August 2017 and October 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loan 2. Uncle Buck disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
done so, I think that Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that Mr L was unlikely to have 
been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner when it provided loan 2. I say this because Mr L was provided with loan 2 a mere matter days after settling loan 1. 
Loan 2 was for a significantly increased amount and the information Uncle Buck obtained 
also appeared to suggest that it ought to have been aware Mr L also had a number of 
existing short term loans outstanding with other providers at this stage too. All of this leads 
me to think that Uncle Buck ought reasonably to have realised that Mr L was more likely than 
not unable to sustainably repay loan 2 and that it wasnt fair and reasonable for Uncle Buck 
to have provided this loan to him in these circumstances.
Mr L had to pay interest and charges on a loan that Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Uncle Buck should put things right.
Putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan 2;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
all adverse information regarding loan 2 should be removed from Mr Ls credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Uncle Buck Finance 
LLP should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman