DRN-4250416
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was misled into believing his conditional sale agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays) had 
no mileage limit, so there would be no excess mileage charge when he gave the car back at 
the end of its term.  
What happened
Mr W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Barclays in July 2016. This was a four 
year agreement to acquire a car. At the end of the agreement period in 2020 Mr W returned 
the car rather than making the final payment and keeping it. He then complained to Barclays 
about the excess mileage charges applicable after he had returned the car. This complaint 
was answered at the time and was referred to our service. 
Whilst we were looking into this, Mr W wanted to clarify his complaint to say that he had 
been mis-sold the agreement and misled into taking it, as he believed the mileage allowance 
was supposed to be unlimited, as this was what hed asked the dealership to quote him for. 
When our service answered the original complaint in November 2020, our answer said that 
the excess mileage had been calculated fairly and confirmed to him that if he wished to 
complain about the agreement and the mileage amount being mis sold to him, that was a 
different complaint that he would need to raise separately with Barclays in the first instance. 
He raised this issue with Barclays in December 2020, but they didnt provide him with an 
answer. He re-raised it with them in March 2023, and they gave him their final response 
letter (FRL) in April 2023. They didnt uphold his complaint around the mis selling issue 
although they did uphold some separate customer service elements, recognising that they 
should have responded to him back when he raised this complaint in 2020. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought this compliant to our service in April 2023. An investigator 
here investigated it and did not uphold it. They said that Mr W had signed the agreement 
confirming that the mileage limit for the agreement was 8,000 miles per annum, and 
confirming what charges were applicable were he to exceed this mileage. 
On this basis, they were satisfied that if he had expected an agreement with an unlimited 
mileage allowance, he could have declined the agreement at that point. As he had signed 
the agreement to accept it at that time, they didnt feel Barclays needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr W didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
Mr W has complained that the agreement was mis sold to him. He says he asked for an 
unlimited mileage agreement, similar to one he says a friend of his had taken out with the 
dealership. This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering 
misrepresentation, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact 
and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr W to enter into 
the agreement for the car. I need to be satisfied that both parts of this test are met to uphold 
a complaint about misrepresentation. 
Mr W has said that he told the salesperson at the dealership that he wanted an unlimited 
mileage contract, similar to one his friend had got from the same dealership. At the end of 
his four year agreement, he had covered around 20,000 more miles than permitted in the 
contract, and so was charged for this excess mileage as per his agreement. 
Ive thought about this, and if this conversation had occurred, what impact this had. 
However, Im not persuaded that this potential conversation was a false statement of fact 
which induced Mr W to enter into the agreement. 
The agreement and the pre contract detail themselves are very clear about the mileage 
limits and charges. On the first two pages of the pre contract information, it confirms that if 
he had decided to make the final repayment to keep the car, that would be all that he was 
required to pay, so no excess mileage charges. 
But if he decided to hand the car back at this point, which he chose to do, excess mileage 
charges are explained at the top of the second page. They are under the bold heading 
Excess mileage charges and explain that Mr W was limited to 8,000 miles per annum, 
before paying the excess mileage charge for any further miles he drove. The section went on 
to outline what the charge would be in pence per mile for any excess mileage driven. 
The details are then repeated on the first page of the conditional sale agreement itself, in a 
section titled Mileage limit and excess mileage charge. 
Even if Mr W had believed following a conversation with a salesperson that he was going to 
get an unlimited mileage agreement, he is responsible for reading the agreement before 
agreeing to accept it, and I am satisfied that the agreement is very clear on these charges. If 
Mr W expected an unlimited mileage contract, Id have expected him to check the section on 
the agreement which he signed which was titled Mileage limit and excess mileage charge. 
Mr W has said that he didnt see this and its small and hed been told it was unlimited 
mileage so many times that he believed it. But it is a consumers responsibility to read and 
accept the paperwork before signing the agreement, so I cant agree with this viewpoint. 
Further to this, if having unlimited mileage was so key to Mr W, it would be reasonable to 
expect him to have confirmed for himself that the agreement he was signing included this 
unlimited mileage. 
Ive also not seen any evidence of him being told he was getting an unlimited mileage 
agreement. Instead, hes provided screen shots of texts which he says show him asking the salesperson for an unlimited mileage agreement. This is very different to being told he was 
getting one. From the test for misrepresentation discussed above, the first part is that Mr W 
would need to have been told he was getting an unlimited mileage contract, the false 
statement of fact. But Ive seen no evidence of this. 
But ultimately, when signing an agreement for a £19,000 car, its reasonable to expect Mr W 
to have read the paperwork. The details of the mileage charges were not buried in any small 
print but were outlined clearly in the front pages of both the agreement, and the pre contract 
information. 
As such, I cant agree that even if he had been given a false statement of fact about getting 
unlimited mileage, that this persuaded him to enter the contract. The agreement he was 
provided and signed is very clear on the mileage allowance and excess mileage charges, so 
at this point, this should have led him to question his own understanding of the agreement 
he was signing up for.  
Im satisfied that even if a salesperson had said something wrong or confusing, Barclays 
have provided clear paperwork with all the details on to correct any confusion before he 
entered the agreement. This would have allowed Mr W to recognise that the deal was not 
what he was expecting, and to decide not to go ahead. He didnt do this and chose to go 
ahead with the agreement. 
As such, I cant agree that this agreement was mis sold to Mr W. Barclays originally offered 
Mr W £100 compensation for their customer service and upheld that element of his 
complaint. I am unaware whether Mr W accepted that offer, but he may wish to do so now, 
by contacting Barclays, if he didnt do so already. I am satisfied that this was a fair offer by 
Barclays to recognise their error in not answering his complaint originally back in 2020. But I 
dont agree that the agreement was mis sold to him, so I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything further.   
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman