DRN-3778507
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service hes received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
for several reasons. His main concern is that Bank of Scotland plc would not allow him to 
extend the term of his interest only mortgage, or agree to write off the shortfall that will 
remain after he repays the most hes able to towards the outstanding capital. 
What happened
Ive summarised events here in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that - this just 
echoes the informal service we were set up to provide. If Ive not mentioned something, its 
not because Ive ignored it, its because I dont think its material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mr B has a residential mortgage with BOS, consisting of various sub accounts. The 
mortgage is repayable on interest only terms. Mr B currently has a mortgage balance of 
around £258,000 outstanding. 
In April 2014 BOS agreed to extend the term of Mr Bs mortgage until April 2021. Mr B told 
BOS that it was his intention to sell his property to repay the outstanding capital balance at 
the end of the term. BOS agreed to the term extension with the premise that Mr B had a 
repayment strategy in place to repay the mortgage in 2021.
In April 2020 BOS wrote to Mr B to remind him that he had 12 months remaining on his 
mortgage. Mr B called BOS to discuss things. He said he no longer wished to sell his 
property and he wanted another term extension instead. Without selling his property, as 
agreed, Mr B had no other plan in place to repay his mortgage in 2021.
BOS assessed Mr Bs circumstances to see if he could be approved for a retirement interest 
only mortgage. BOS describes this mortgage as a long-term solution for customers who 
have an interest only mortgage which is near or at the end of its term where they have no 
repayment plan, but can sustain monthly interest payments later in life. The repayment of the 
mortgage is usually when the property is sold, normally on death or when the last remaining 
mortgage holder permanently moves out. 
BOS contact notes show Mr B said he was working as a self-employed freelancer and also 
had a part time job. He was also collecting his state pension to the value of £7,150 gross per 
annum. He was unsure when hed likely retire and collect his additional private pension. For 
this type of mortgage, BOS could only consider Mr Bs pension income to assess 
affordability for a later life mortgage. Based on Mr Bs pension income of £7,150 at that time, 
he didnt meet the affordability requirements.
BOS considered other possible options to help Mr B. It arranged an equity release referral 
with a third-party lender as an alternative. BOS notes show the most the provider was willing 
to lend was £155,000, leaving a shortfall of around £103,000. Mr B had no other means to 
meet the shortfall. So this wasnt suitable. Mr B said that he expected his financial 
circumstances to improve and that hed be back in touch in early 2021 to revisit his options 
again.
In early 2021 further conversations took place between BOS and Mr B. Mr Bs 
circumstances remained largely the same, so the options that were previously explored in 
2020, were still considered unaffordable. BOS said it could consider using Mr Bs earned 
income to assess whether a term extension on repayment terms would be affordable, but the 
maximum age it could lend to was 75 years. As Mr B would be repaying the full balance over 
four years, he said this would not be an affordable option. BOS agreed a grace period until 
31 October 2021 to allow time for Mr B to find another solution. 
Mr B complained that BOS would not agree to extend his mortgage beyond this date or 
agree, as a goodwill gesture, to waive the shortfall that would remain after taking an equity 
release mortgage. 
BOS answered the complaint and provided several final response letters addressing this 
issue and other customer service related matters. Mr Bs complaints werent upheld. BOS 
position regarding the term extension and write-off of the shortfall remained unchanged. 
BOS did accept there had been some customer service failings and paid Mr B £150 
compensation as an apology. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into 
things and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought BOS had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances. Mr B didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about this matter. I want to assure him Ive read and 
carefully considered everything hes provided. However, Ive focused on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the parties, 
and address the crux of the complaint, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. Taking into account the relevant regulation that applies here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs raised several reasons why hes dissatisfied with the general 
service provided by BOS, its clear his main concern is around the expiry of his mortgage 
term and what he considers to be lack of help from BOS. 
The starting point here is that when Mr B borrowed money from BOS, he agreed to
repay the outstanding capital at the end of the term. So, its not unreasonable for BOS to 
expect the loan to be repaid as agreed. BOS had already agreed to one term extension 
request in 2014, which gave Mr B until 2021 to repay the mortgage. At that time, Mr B told 
BOS that he intended to sell his property at the end of the term to repay the outstanding 
capital. BOS agreed the terms of the interest only mortgage on this basis.
Mr B knew the mortgage was repayable in 2021 and BOS sent annual statements that 
reminded Mr B of his obligation to check the performance of any repayment strategy in 
place. In 2020 Mr B told BOS that his intentions to sell his property had changed. So, he no 
longer had a suitable repayment strategy to meet the requirements of an interest only 
mortgage. 
BOS is under no obligation to automatically agree a term extension. That said, it must give 
fair and reasonable consideration to a request to extend the term. This includes an assessment of Mr Bs circumstances and establishing a suitable plan to repay the 
outstanding capital.
BOS assessed the request Mr B made in 2020 for a second term extension as far as it 
could, based on the information it had. I appreciate evidence of Mr Bs income and 
expenditure information recorded at that time is somewhat limited. But based on an income 
of around £7,000 per year its clear to me that, on balance, a mortgage of around £258,000 
would not be affordable. Im also satisfied BOS gave fair consideration to other options 
available to Mr B including an equity release referral and exploring a possible switch to a 
capital repayment mortgage, neither of which were suitable options for reasons already 
outlined.
Mr B did not meet the criteria for a regular interest only term extension. Ive also not seen 
enough to persuade me that such a term extension would put Mr B in a better position 
financially overall either. He would be years further down the line, paying additional interest 
during this period, and potentially left in the same position as he is now. This being, either 
finding a new mortgage to cover the capital amount outstanding or selling the property. 
Mr B says hes relying on the value of his property increasing to facilitate a larger equity 
release loan in the future. I dont think this is enough to persuade BOS that the proposed 
repayment strategy at the end of the term extension is anything more than speculative. 
Relying on house prices to increase is not something Id reasonably expect BOS to accept 
as a credible plan to repay the mortgage at the end of the term
So, in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for BOS to decline a further term 
extension on interest only terms. Nor is it obliged to write off any shortfall debt. When Mr B 
took the mortgage, he agreed to repay the capital in full under the terms of the mortgage. As 
such, BOS isnt expected to accept Mr Bs proposal to alter the mortgage contract terms due 
to a change in circumstances. It would be up to BOS whether it agrees to this as a goodwill 
gesture, but its not something Id expect it to reasonably do in the circumstances.
Mr B has mentioned that his children could possibly buy the property from him. He says this 
is an option BOS should have presented to him sooner. I note that this level of advice is not 
something Id expect BOS as the lender to provide. Such a transaction could have wider 
reaching implications. And therefore, this would be something an independent financial 
advisor would be qualified to explore and recommend.   
Mr B knew the term of his mortgage was repayable in 2016 and then again in 2021. So, hes 
had several years to think about a suitable plan for repaying the mortgage before it was due. 
It is Mr B that owes BOS a debt that was coming up for repayment, so it was for him to come 
up with a proposal that was acceptable to BOS, not the other way around. 
If Mr B is still going to sell the property to his children, he should engage with BOS about 
that. It will be up to BOS whether, in the circumstances, it agrees to a further grace period to 
allow time for the sale to go through. As far as my decision is concerned, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied BOS has acted fairly and reasonably during the process to date 
when not agreeing to a formal term extension. I therefore wont be asking BOS to agree to 
any further term extension on the mortgage.
Mr B should continue to engage with BOS to agree a suitable way forward as the 
outstanding balance on this mortgage is now due. 
I appreciate Mr B has given several reasons why hes unhappy with BOS service in general. 
BOS accepts it didnt get everything right and has paid Mr B £150 compensation to acknowledge its service failings. When considering everything, Ive not seen enough to 
suggest any of the concerns raised by Mr B are so severe that any of the issues would 
influence my decision relating to the crux of his complaint about the term extension  
therefore requiring BOS to do anything different in the circumstances. When considering 
everything I think £150 fairly compensates Mr B in the circumstances for any administration 
failings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman