DRN-4322510
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were sold the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage. Although it 
was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr L for unemployment only.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and giving the parties a chance to comment further. Nationwide had 
no additional comments. Mr and Mrs L expressed their disappointment in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As explained in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs L say they didnt know that PPI had 
been added to their mortgage, meaning that it was added without their knowledge or 
consent.
In re-considering the complaint, Ive thought about how long ago the sale was. Mr and Mrs L 
have said that they dont have any recollection of it, which is not surprising given the time 
that has elapsed.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process at the time, the PPI was generally 
presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something 
different happened in this case.
This was a joint mortgage and so, if the PPI had been automatically added, I might have 
expected it to be set up to cover both Mr and Mrs L equally and to provide standard cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and for the mortgage repayment amount only.
As already mentioned, the policy was set up to cover Mr L only. It was also set up to cover 
him just for unemployment. Also, it provided a benefit of £400 to cover the mortgage 
repayment amount plus additional cover of £200. This indicates that some discussion took 
place about the PPI with Mr and Mrs L tailoring it to their requirements.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs L say that Nationwide knew they were 
wrong and are telling lies to cover it up. But I havent seen any evidence of that being the 
case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs L have provided their genuine recollection of events. But, 
based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that they decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that Nationwide didnt have to consider Mr and Mrs 
Ls circumstances, such as levels of savings, to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. 
But it did need to provide Mr and Mrs L with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not to take out the policy.
I think that Mr and Mrs L would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments if Mr L became unemployed  because I doubt theyd have 
decided to buy it and opt for that level of cover without knowing anything at all about it.
Mrs L received a redundancy payment in 1995 which was placed in a savings account. 
Mr and Mrs L would have had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of the policy against 
the benefit offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure against the risk of Mr 
L losing his job. The available evidence suggests that they decided to buy PPI even though 
they had some savings. A mortgage is a significant financial undertaking and so it makes 
sense that they might have wanted to protect the repayments and retain their savings.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr L wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, Mr L didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have been 
excluded under the policy, and besides he chose to take unemployment cover only. So I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds about 
buying the policy.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs L would still have taken out the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what they thought 
they were getting and could have provided a useful benefit at a difficult time. And in those 
circumstances, I think it more likely than not that they would have taken out the PPI in any 
event. So, they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, 
so theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman