DRN-1922654
The complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim he made on his 
employers private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy. In January 2020, 
Mr C had a road traffic accident and suffered facial fractures. AXA agreed to cover the costs 
of Mr C visiting a maxillofacial specialist, who Ill refer to as Mr A. In February 2020, AXA 
authorised the cost of surgery which Mr A had recommended that Mr C should undergo. This 
surgery was an open reduction of fractures to Mr Cs left zygomatic complex. 
However, the surgery had to be abandoned, as Mr Cs fractures had healed. On review, Mr 
A noted that there was flattening to Mr Cs left zygomatic (cheek) bone. So he recommended 
that Mr C should have an implant to augment the area. Mr C made a claim for the costs of 
implant surgery.
AXA turned down Mr Cs claim. Its medical team reviewed the information Mr A had provided 
and it concluded that the surgery was purely cosmetic, as it considered the surgery was 
being proposed for aesthetic reasons. Cosmetic surgery was specifically excluded by the 
policy terms. 
Mr C was unhappy with AXAs decision and he appealed. He said that he was still 
experiencing pain in his face and he wasnt able to open his mouth or chew properly. He 
provided further information from Mr A which stated that the surgery wasnt cosmetic  it was 
intended to restore Mr Cs cheekbone to normality. However, as AXA noted that Mr A hadnt 
suggested that the surgery was being carried out to alleviate the symptoms Mr C had 
mentioned, it maintained its stance.
As Mr C remained unhappy with AXAs decision, he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
felt that AXA should contact Mr A to ask for further information in support of his claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that AXA didnt cover cosmetic surgery. She considered the medical evidence 
both Mr C and AXA had provided. She felt that the evidence suggested that the surgery was 
being recommended to elevate Mr Cs cheekbone, rather than to treat his symptoms. So she 
didnt think it met AXAs definition of treatment and she felt it was fair for it to conclude that 
the surgery was cosmetic. She explained that it was for Mr C to provide evidence to support 
his claim and therefore, hed need to send AXA further information from Mr A if he wanted 
AXA to consider his claim further.
Mr C disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Cs policy and the available evidence to decide whether AXA handled the claim 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Cs contract with AXA. 
The policy defines what AXA means by treatment. It says:
Surgery or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve 
or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The policy sets out the private medical cover AXA provides. It includes a section called 
Cosmetic Surgery. This section says:
We do not cover:
Cosmetic treatment or cosmetic surgery; or
Treatment that is connected to previous cosmetic treatment or cosmetic surgery.
In my view, AXAs policy clearly sets out what it means by treatment and that it doesnt cover 
cosmetic surgery.
AXAs concluded that the implant surgery Mr C has claimed for is purely cosmetic and 
therefore isnt covered by the policy terms. So Ive looked very closely at the available 
medical evidence to decide whether I think it was fair for it to reach this decision.
On 6 February 2020, Mr A reported that Mr C was experiencing altered sensation in the left 
infraorbital nerve. And on 18 February 2020, Mr A wrote to Mr Cs GP to explain that he 
planned to carry out open reduction surgery, to close the fractures as closely as possible to 
their original positions. He noted that Mr C had some limitation on opening and closing his 
mouth. The surgery was to be carried out on 6 March 2020.
However, Mr A wrote to Mr Cs GP on 19 March 2020 to explain that the open fracture 
surgery had had to be abandoned and the options that hed given Mr C as a result. The letter 
states that the attempted elevation of the area was abandoned as it was found that (Mr Cs) 
fractures have healed. It continues: on examination today, there is obvious flattening of the 
left zygomatic protuberance and recent resolving haematomaI think. a correction of the 
bony deficit could be achieved with a zygomatic implant designed as a patient-specific 
device.
AXAs medical team reviewed this evidence and concluded that the surgery was intended to 
improve the flattening to Mr Cs face. I note that Mr A didnt refer to either to any limitations 
on Mr Cs ability to open and close his mouth or to any continuing possible nerve damage 
within this letter. Based on what Mr A said, I dont think this was an unfair position for it to 
take. I say that because the surgery appears to have been intended to correct the bone, 
rather than to relieve any continuing nerve damage or limitations on the movement of Mr Cs 
mouth or to cure the existing injury Following AXAs decision, Mr A provided further evidence. This says:
I took the trouble to explain that many patients nationwide suffer from fractures of the 
zygomatic complex which result in flattening of the face without a functional deficit and that 
these patients undergo surgery to elevate the cheekbone to restore form, which in the face, 
we would all agree is an important area for social interaction. In other words, the indications 
for surgery are not cosmetic (in that they do not seek to enhance or alter a previously normal 
anatomical region) but aesthetic in that the intention would be to return normality to an area 
which has been made abnormal as a consequence of his road traffic accident.
I accept that Mr A has explicitly stated that the indications for the proposed implant surgery 
arent cosmetic. However, I also think it was reasonable for AXAs medical team to review 
this evidence more widely. Importantly, Mr A has referred to the fact that there is no 
functional deficit in Mr Cs case. Hes mentioned that the purpose of the implant is to 
elevate the cheekbone to restore its form. He specifically stated that the surgery is aesthetic 
and intended to restore Mr Cs face to the way it looked before his accident.
Given Mr A has explained in the most recent reports that theres no functional issue with Mr 
Cs cheekbone and that the surgery is intended to restore his appearance, I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to conclude the surgery was proposed for cosmetic reasons. It doesnt 
appear that its being recommended to diagnose, cure or relieve his injury. I appreciate Mr C 
has told us that he suffers pain and that his ability to open his mouth and chew have been 
impacted (and Mr A referenced this when he first recommended the open fracture surgery 
on 18 February 2020). However, Mr A hasnt suggested that the implant surgery is 
necessary to treat or alleviate these symptoms, or that the implant would cure them. The 
recommendation seems to have been made on aesthetic grounds. On this basis, I dont 
think I could fairly find that the implant surgery falls within the scope of treatment. And so I 
think it was fair for AXA to rely on this evidence to turn down Mr Cs claim.
Mr C also mentioned that he doesnt think that AXA used an appropriate expert to assess 
the medical evidence provided as he understands it has been reviewed by a dental nurse. I 
dont think thats central to the outcome of this complaint because, if thats the case, I still 
think AXA has asked a suitably qualified medical professional to review the claim. And, as 
Ive already explained, AXA has said it is happy to review any more information Mr Cs 
treating team provides. 
I appreciate Mr C feels that AXA should ask for further evidence from Mr A about the 
reasons why the surgery was needed. As the investigator explained though, its a 
policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on their policy. Thats standard 
industry practice and is reflected in the policy terms, which explain that there are 
circumstances in which AXA may require more information before considering the claim 
further.
AXAs reviewed the medical evidence it has available and doesnt think the claim is payable. 
I agree that based on the evidence its got, it was fair for it to reach this decision. And I dont 
think it was required to request anything more. If Mr C or Mr A feel that AXA has wrongly 
interpreted the evidence, or theres further evidence theyd like it to consider, its open to Mr 
C to provide this evidence to AXA for it to look at. 
Overall, while I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Cs position, as I appreciate that hes 
suffered painful injuries, I think AXA has handled his claim fairly. So Im not telling it to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman