DRN-3879473
The complaint
Mr F complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service
in connection with his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage, I include the insurance intermediary and others insofar as I hold
Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr F had a new, four-wheel drive coupe with a powerful engine and an automatic
transmission. For the year from April 2021, he had it insured on a comprehensive policy
branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance
company responsible for dealing with any claim.
In July 2021, Mr Fs car was damaged in an incident with a third party. Advantage arranged
repair of the car. It also arranged a courtesy car. 
Mr F complained to Advantage. By a final response dated early August 2021, Advantage 
summarised that complaint as being about about the service and the type of courtesy car 
received. It turned down that complaint.
Mr F complained to Advantage again. In late September 2021, Advantage arranged for a
vehicle inspector to inspect the vehicle after repairs. The inspector identified the need for
rectification work.
By a final response dated mid-October 2021, Advantage summarised Mr Fs complaint as
being about the following points:
1) it hadnt been proactive in dealing with his claim.
2) it was unable to claim directly from the third partys insurer.
3) its call handling including failed call backs and telephone line quality.
4) it provided incorrect information.
5) a like- for- like courtesy car wasn't provided.
6) previous complaint handling.
7) the service from its garage.
8) the quality of repairs.
Advantage partly upheld the complaint as regards points 1,3 & 8. It said it was sending a
cheque for £150.00 compensation as an apology.
Between mid-November 2021 and early December 2021, Mr F complained to Advantage
again. By a final response dated 25 January 2022, Advantage upheld the complaint. It said it
was sending a cheque for £100.00 compensation as an apology and for the delays, service
and time spent contacting it.
On about 19 June 2022 , Mr F brought his complaint to us. Mr Fs complaint form included
the following:
Tell us about your complaint - what happened?
There are several complaints but [the intermediary] fused them into 1, I had many 
call drops from their associates, many promises that were not upheld, they told me 
that the complaint was resolved and I had been issued with compensation when I 
told them I wasnt happy with the compensation, they told me they would re open the 
complaint and the cheque would be void. To the point not one cheque was received 
even when I advised the complaints team they said they would send a new check out 
but again not received, managers were arguing with me, contradicting everything 
they were sayin on the phones, breached GDPR and FCA Guidelines on many 
occasions.
How have you been affected - financially or otherwise?
When the claim started they told me it would take 24hours to get me a car, it took 
them 2 weeks and to the point they did not do any admin work for the claim at all, 
when I spoke the third party insurance they said they hadnt received Any 
communication what so ever and were waiting for my insurance to get in touch, I lost 
2 weeks of pay and was advised that Id get 150£ of compensation which once again 
never showed up
How would you like the business to put things right for you?
For the stress I had to go through and the fake promises of compensation and my 
excess being refunded I think it would be fair for [the intermediary] to refund the 
whole policy plus adequate enough compensation, and to issue me the equivalent 
refund of a like for like car that should have been issued but never was when the car 
went of to [named] garage. For 3 weeks they made me drive round in an 
incomparable car that was not like for like as my car.
On 25 October 2022, our investigator said that we couldnt investigate the following points of
complaint:
1. there was a two-week delay in a courtesy car being provided.
2. the courtesy car wasn't a like-for-like.
3. calls were dropped by agents.
On 26 October 2022, our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
He said that the service Advantage provided Mr F in the calls was disappointing. But he
thought that - with its compensation offer of £100.00 - Advantage had fairly addressed the
distress caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F   
and to Advantage on 9 December 2022. I summarise my findings:
There were some complaint points that I didnt consider I could comment on. 
In relation to some of the other complaint points, Id found shortcomings in 
Advantages service, causing extra distress and inconvenience for Mr F at an already 
difficult time for him.
Subject to any further information from Mr F or from Advantage, I intended to direct 
Advantage to pay Mr F  in addition to its offers of £150.00 and £100.00  a further £150.00 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr F hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Advantage disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that the provisional 
decision didnt justify the increase in compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules.
One of those rules is that a consumer must first have made a complaint to the business and
waited for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate that complaint.
Another of those rules is that if a consumer has made a complaint that a firm has answered
in a final response and the consumer brings the complaint to us more than six months after
the final response, then we cant investigate that complaint unless there are exceptional
reasons preventing the consumer from complying with that time limit.
Advantages final responses dated August and October 2021 set out the complaint points
that Advantage was answering. (But, of course, each of these was only in relation to events
that had already taken place and Mr F had complained about). Mr F didnt bring those
complaint points to us within six months.
He has told us that he suffered a house fire and also that he lost his phone. But he hasnt
given details or dates. So Im not satisfied that there was any exceptional reason that
prevented him from bringing his complaint to us within six months of those respective final
responses.
Advantages final response dated January 2022 didnt, in my view, seek to review the
previous two final responses.
So I dont consider that I can comment on complaint points insofar as Advantage responded
to them in the final responses dated August and October 2021. That means that I cant
consider any of the following insofar as they are in relation to events that had already taken
place and Mr F had complained about:
before early August 2021 as regards service and the type of courtesy car
before mid-October 2021 in relation to claims-handling proactivity, call-handling, 
incorrect information, absence of a like-for-like courtesy car and complaint-handling.
Ive quoted Mr Fs complaint form above. I find his complaint form and his submissions to the
investigator are lacking in details including dates.
As regards Mr Fs complaint about many call drops and many promises that were not
upheld, these are, in my view, aspects of the handling of the claim, calls and complaints. So
I cant consider them insofar as they are in relation to events that had already taken place 
and Mr F had complained about before mid-October 2021.
As regards later call drops, I havent seen enough evidence of details or dates. So I dont 
uphold that complaint point.
As regards later promises that were not upheld, the only one of which Ive seen enough
details or evidence is a promise in November 2021 to provide a like-for-like courtesy car.
The policy terms didnt oblige Advantage to provide a like-for-like courtesy car. But
Advantage recognised that  after its repairs - the car needed rectification work. Thats whyAdvantage promised a like-for-like courtesy car.
In its January 2022 final response, Advantage acknowledged that it made that promise on 23
November 2021. It said that a manager had to step in to ensure the promise was kept. It also
said that the final rectification work was completed on 10 December 2021.
As regards Mr Fs complaint that For 3 weeks they made me drive round in an
incomparable car, he hasnt given dates. But  from Advantages file  I see that it was on
about 18 November 2021 that Mr F asked for a car more like his own while his garage was
rectifying Advantages repairs. And I find that Advantage got the courtesy car upgraded on
about 24 November 2021.
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr F the equivalent refund of a 
like for like car. Rather, Ive considered the impact on Mr F of the provision of a
lesser car. That mustve caused him some inconvenience and disappointment.
I turn now to Mr Fs complaint point that they told me that the complaint was resolved and I
had been issued with compensation, when I told them I wasnt happy with the compensation,
they told me they would re open the complaint and the cheque would be void. I accept that
in mid-November 2021, Advantage gave conflicting information about the status of the
complaint.
It incorrectly said that it would reopen the earlier complaint. But it corrected this. And its
January 2022 final response dealt with the new points of complaint.
As regards Mr Fs complaint that To the point not one cheque was received even when I
advised the complaints team they said they would send a new check out but again not
received, I think this relates to the cheques promised in the final responses of October
2021 and January 2022. But I havent seen enough evidence that Mr F complained to
Advantage about that point before its final response in January 2022. So I dont consider that 
I can comment on a complaint about not receiving cheques.
As regards Mr Fs complaint that managers were arguing with me, contradicting everything
they were sayin on the phones, I think this relates to Advantages handling of the calls in
November 2021.
I accept that this fell below a reasonable standard in some respects. One of Advantages
call-handlers laughed at Mr F. Also Advantage gave conflicting information about whether it
had received the report of the vehicle inspector. I consider that these shortcomings caused
Mr F to feel misled.
As regards Mr Fs complaint that Advantage breached GDPR and FCA Guidelines on many
occasions, Mr F hasnt given dates or other details. So I consider that he has fallen short of
showing any such breaches.
As regards, Mr Fs complaint that When the claim started the third party insurance they
said they hadnt received Any communication 150£ of compensation which once again
never showed up, Ive said that Im not going to comment on the complaint points about
service before August 2021 or claims-handling proactivity before October 2021 or sending
the cheque for £150.00.
As regards, Mr Fs complaint For the stress I had to go through and the fake promises of
compensation and my excess being refunded, I dont consider Advantages offers to be
fake. Ive said that I dont consider that I can comment on a complaint about not receiving
cheques. Similarly, I havent seen enough evidence that Mr F complained to Advantageabout refunding his excess. So I dont consider that I can comment on that.
To summarise, there are some complaint points that I dont consider I can comment on. In
relation to some of the other complaint points, Ive found shortcomings in Advantages
service, causing extra distress and inconvenience for Mr F at an already difficult time for him.
This included making Mr F feel misled in telephone calls in November 2021. It also included  
the inconvenience and disappointment of having to drive a lesser car for about a week in 
November 2021. 
Putting things right
Advantages offer of £150.00 was in relation to different and earlier complaint points, before 
the final response in October 2021.
Advantages offer of £100.00 was in relation to the later complaint points that Ive upheld. 
But I dont consider that £100.00 was enough to make up for the level of distress and 
inconvenience Ive found from the telephone calls and from having to drive a lesser car in 
November 2021. 
I conclude that its fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr F  in addition to its 
offers of £150.00 and £100.00  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F  in addition to its offers of 
£150.00 and £100.00  a further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman