DRN-4489729
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction he made on his credit card to get out of a Timeshare type agreement.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr W talked with a company which said it provided Timeshare Relinquishment 
services (which I will call Firm S). Mr W says Firm S told him it could get him out of his 
timeshare type agreement hed previously entered into. And that if it didnt do so within 
twelve months hed get a full refund. So Mr W paid Firm S £5655 using his HSBC credit 
card.
Mr W says he immediately called HSBC feeling that hed been caught up in a scam. Mr W 
says hes had significant contact with HSBC but to little success. He says he provided a 
dispute form to HSBC in March 2023 which hed come across. Unhappy with HSBCs taking 
the matter forward he complained to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that HSBC hadnt treated Mr W unfairly 
largely because it still could take the matter forward through either Chargeback or Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But Mr W didnt agree so this decision comes to me to 
decide.
Since the Investigator here had issued assessments to Mr W on the matter HSBC has said 
Mr W has had a full refund which was achieved through the Chargeback process.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision noting the significant change in facts 
(specifically Mr W receiving a full refund) and explaining I wasnt upholding Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W has provided his thoughts on the matter. HSBC hasnt added anything further. 
Accordingly I now issue this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including Mr Ws recent comments, my position remains materially 
unchanged. Accordingly Mr Ws complaint is unsuccessful. I shall reiterate my rationale 
below and deal with Mr Ws further comments at the end of this decision under further 
comments.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm S, or any other parties 
involved directly with Mr Ws timeshare arrangements. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely about what HSBC did or 
didnt do in relation to its obligations in relation to Mr W. And it should be remembered that 
HSBC is only involved in this issue as a result of its managing Mr Ws credit card account 
which he used to make these transactions to Firm S, it wasnt the party that offered 
timeshare relinquishment services to Mr W. I should add that Mr W has provided substantial 
amounts of evidence and comment in relation to Firm S and indeed apparently linked 
entities. Ive considered all of this. However I will only be considering the actions of HSBC 
here as this decision can only consider how it considered Mr Ws dispute and not the 
broader issues Mr W raises.
In essence the tests I must consider in relation to HSBC are whether the transaction itself 
was made correctly, and whether HSBCs position in regard to Chargeback and Mr Ws 
Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was fair.
Mr W doesnt contest that he made the transaction originally, or that it was applied 
incorrectly to his account. Ive considered the transaction itself and Im satisfied HSBC didnt 
do anything wrong in processing it or allocating it to his account. Mr W accepts he authorised 
and consented to the transaction being made at the time it was made.
could HSBC challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr W 
does here, HSBC can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a 
right, but this Service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time 
limits and there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think HSBC couldve challenged 
the payments on the basis Mr W didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive 
already set out.
Here HSBC raised a chargeback, and it was successful. And I can see Mr Ws account has 
been credited. Under the Chargeback scheme rules the maximum amount you can get 
through a chargeback is the full amount of the transaction. I can see Mr W has received this. 
So I dont think HSBC has treated Mr W unfairly in regard to chargeback.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
HSBC has said that whilst the dispute was still within the time limits of the chargeback 
scheme it would consider chargeback before considering S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. In this case I dont think thats unreasonable and as Ive said Mr W has had a full 
refund. It is clear from Mr Ws commentary he contacted HSBC on the day he made the 
payment because he believed it to be a scam. As such, Im not persuaded he could from that 
point rely on what hed been told reasonably having made clear he believed hed been lied 
to. And Ive not seen any persuasive direct financial loss as a direct consequence of what he 
was told by Firm S outside of the payment he made it to begin with. So although Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence of HSBC considering S75 here Im not persuaded this has 
caused any loss to Mr W because hes already received a full refund which is what he would 
have received if a S75 claim was successful based on the circumstances here.
For the sake of completeness Ill deal with some of the key arguments Mr W has made as I 
see them. Mr W has made the observation that when he made the transaction it was as far 
as he was concerned with Firm S but actually the money went to a third party. I dont doubt 
his comments on this matter. Nevertheless the recipient of the funds has refunded him and 
HSBC when making the transaction is only bound to comply based on the evidence it 
receives through the transaction mechanism rather than with who Mr W believed he was 
talking to at the time.
Mr W points to press coverage around banks and their approaches to such disputes. 
However it is of note that HSBC on receipt of Mr Ws dispute form initiated the chargeback 
promptly and were successful in recouping the full amount.Mr W points to difficulties in contacting HSBC and the time spent. I note that when Mr W 
contacted HSBC it was with the view of stopping or unwinding the transaction because it 
was not authorised. However it is clear from what Mr W says hed had a number of 
conversations, signed contracts, and had made the transaction willingly and had authorised 
and consented to it. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in how it treated the 
transaction itself.
Mr W suggests that HSBC deliberately didnt engage with him. Ive considered what 
happened here and Im not persuaded HSBC acted with malice here and I see no reason for 
it to do so. Particularly as the recipient of the funds reimbursed Mr W through the 
chargeback process.
Mr W has made a number of arguments around Firm S, other related entities operating in 
and around Timeshare relinquishment. However such entities arent the responsibility of 
HSBC. And I can only decide upon how HSBC treated Mr W in this matter. And although Mr 
W has made numerous arguments around the compliance and standards of firms such as 
Firm S it is of note that it has refunded him. And getting his money back after twelve months 
was what was agreed originally if it didnt provide the service advertised. So I dont think 
HSBC has done anything wrong here.
Mr W has made numerous arguments about the regulation of firms and ensuring such firms 
act with integrity. He makes numerous valid arguments here. But neither HSBC nor this 
service is responsible for the regulation of firms offering timeshare relinquishment services.
Further comments
Mr W has made a significant amount of further comment on the matter, all of which Ive 
considered. I note that a portion of his comments are about Timeshare Relinquishment 
industry and some of the other parties involved here. As this is a dispute regarding HSBC, 
as I explained in my provisional decision, Ill not be commenting on Mr Ws comments about 
other firms or the industry. That is not to say these arent important issues but rather theyre 
not at the crux of this complaint to my mind.
It is also clear that Mr W has expectations of how HSBC should act and how they should 
have responded. And much of this is around the difficulties he found in making his 
arguments to it. Bearing in mind its evidence on the matter Im of the view that it doesnt 
necessarily follow that because HSBC didnt meet his expectations that it had failed in some 
way.
Mr W says he wasnt refunded but his credit card account was credited. As this was a 
successful chargeback that is fair to my mind in this case.
Mr W makes a number of further arguments, but these do not persuade me to make a 
material change to my overall position. 
All in all, having considered all of Mr Ws arguments Im not persuaded hes lost out because 
of how HSBC treated him. I appreciate hes done lots of research into the surrounding 
matters and is particularly vexed by how he found himself making this transaction and trying 
to rectify it. And that hes chosen to spend a lot of time on the matter. However I dont think 
that Mr W has lost out due to how HSBC treated the transaction or his dispute with Firm S.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank PLC. It has nothing further to do in 
this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman