DRN-3376506
The complaint
Miss A contacted us as she was unhappy with the service provided by Bank of Scotland Plc
(trading as Halifax) and what they had paid her as compensation.
What happened
Miss A told us she owed Halifax £469.00. She didnt want to use the automated pay system 
when making repayments due to the impact on her mental health. Miss A said this had taken 
too long to sort out and had involved her speaking to a number of different people.
Miss A let us know her diagnoses and explained she found it difficult and stressful to use the
automated pay system. Miss As health circumstances and vulnerability had been identified 
to Halifax previously. Miss A said shed been offered £50 when she complained and was told 
Halifax would write the debt off; she said she was later told this couldnt be done.
Miss A and her friend who assisted her when she first complained to us, didnt think this was
sufficient compensation for her experience. Miss As friend told us Miss A had explained to 
Halifax many times that she couldnt use the automated system and that she found it really
distressing; he thought they ought to have made more effort to provide reasonable 
adjustments.
Halifax sent us a copy of their business file. Their understanding of the situation was that:
Problems arose when Miss A contacted them because money shed paid against a 
debt owed wasnt showing on her account. 
Due to her contact theyd been able to find the money (it hadnt been paid against the 
debt as no debt reference had been provided by Miss A) and they had then paid the 
money towards her debt.
Halifax had gone on to pay Miss A £100 compensation in total when shed 
complained.
Initially they told us this was £50 for two of her accounts that were in debt.
They had also written off the debts she had in relation to both accounts.
This included ensuring £469.00 was refunded to her basic bank account.
Halifax wanted to reassure Miss A the debt had been written off.
An investigator at this service looked into Miss As complaint. The investigator said that
although she didnt get a sense that Halifax and Miss A had concentrated on the same
primary concerns, she thought what Halifax had offered and done overall was enough.
The investigator thought Miss A was now complaining of an unmet need for reasonable
adjustments, and that was why Miss A didnt think Halifax had done enough. Whilst Halifax 
had mainly addressed a complaint around a repayment to a debt going missing. Overall the
investigator felt that because Halifax had written off a sum of just less than £500 and made
an award totalling £100 compensation, this was enough to meet all the circumstances.
The investigator accepted Miss A had been trying to make payments through a Halifax
representative on the phone, but this hadnt been possible. This was due to security, as
these representatives were working from home, which the investigator understood. The
investigators view was that Halifax could have done more to explore the option of an adviser
contacting Miss A from a branch. 
The investigator noted Halifax did offer a range of repayment methods, as contained in their 
own information, and so the investigator hoped Miss A would be assisted by this in the 
future. And Halifax could assist Miss A about these, were she to express further frustrations 
in the same way.
Miss A and her friend said the debt ought to have been written off a long time ago and they
didnt agree with the view of the investigator. The investigator explained she had not been
considering a complaint about a failure to write off a debt, this was not part of the complaint
made to this service. Miss A didnt accept the investigators view and asked for her case to
be referred to an ombudsman.
I asked Halifax to provide information and I previous shared a summary of this with Miss A 
and Halifax. Halifax told me:
Miss A has 2 closed current accounts: (I provided the account numbers previously).
One was closed on 12 April 2012. The balance on closure was £642.98. A remaining 
balance was written off in February 2021 of £345.36.
 The other was closed on 26 February 2019. The balance on closure was £568.97. 
The balance written off in March 2021 was £469.00.
Miss A has an open Basic account and an open Instant Saver; both of which 
apparently have nil balances.
A total of £100.00 was paid to Miss A to apologise (this was made up of £50.00 paid on the
17 February 2021 and £25.00 x 2 paid on 22 February 2021). These sums were all paid to
Miss As Basic account. Halifax say the £469.00 was refunded internally to Miss As Basic 
account on 2 March 2021.
Halifax said they had reviewed their notes from the end of 2020 to early 2021. They say 
Miss A was a frequent caller to the Recoveries team, as she was making regular debit card 
payments over the telephone.
They say there were a number of calls when Miss A was checking the balance, seeing if the
payment had cleared etc. Halifax say they were also numerous call backs made to Miss A
when requested; although they accept that not all calls might have been returned.
Halifax accept Miss A made many calls regarding the missing £469.00 and that was the
reason they provided compensation. Halifax note that calls to their Recoveries department
are free, so no call costs would have been provided as part of any compensation.I issued a provisional decision on this case on 21 February 2022. In it I indicated I intended 
to say Halifax had done enough here. I asked Halifax to let me know whether Miss A had 
been referred to an additional support area. Halifax confirmed she had since July 2018; and 
such support would remain available to her.
Miss A didnt reply to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. Halifax have done 
enough here to address the failures relating to this complaint. Halifax accepted there had 
been problems around the sum of £469.00 that Miss A intended to pay towards one of her 
debts. This meant that the sum wasnt initially paid towards the debt and when Miss A was 
trying to sort this ought she didnt receive the service she ought to have done.
Halifax overall paid Miss A £100 compensation. They also wrote off the outstanding debt 
balance of £469.00 in March 2021. They refunded the £469.00 into her basic account.
I accept from Halifax that when Miss A was trying to sort things out, they didnt provide the
service Miss A could have reasonably expected. This was part of what made Miss A 
unhappy. Halifax were right to apologise and make a payment to Miss A in addition to their 
apology.
Miss A complained Halifax hadnt done enough. She said Halifax hadnt done enough to 
provide an adjustment so that she didnt need to use the automated payment service. It 
appears to me Miss A thinks she was mainly required to use the automated payment service 
in respect of the debts she had on several accounts.
I previously indicated I didnt think Halifax originally considered a complaint they hadnt 
provided such adjustments to Miss A. But this had been considered in our investigators 
view. Halifax havent suggested I cant consider this.
Ive looked with care at the correspondence provided that was sent to Miss A. Ive seen that 
in all the debt repayment letters provided from 2018 and 2019, various payment options
were set out. This included online, over the phone with a debit card or in a branch. The 
letters also highlight there are further payment options available.
I accept a number of alternative options were available usually for repayment. Some of these
may have not been as available during times of Covid restrictions as they might have been
previously; but if Miss A didnt want to use the automated system I think they were a number
of alternative options available to her to use. It appears to me that Miss A used alternatives 
at times.
Equally I accept Miss A has been frustrated and distressed when using the Halifax system
and there have been times when she has not received a requested call back.
When considering whether Halifax had done enough. I noted that the debt of £469.00
was written off in March 2021; the account that related to this debt was closed in February
2019. The balance on closure was £568.97. In September 2019 Halifax wrote to an 
organisation acting for Miss A to arrange a repayment plan of £10 a month for this account 
with an outstanding debt of £538.97. A copy of this letter was also sent to Miss A.I am aware a debt of £345.36 for a different account that was written off in February 2021; 
and the account that related to was closed apparently in April 2012.
As our investigator explained this service is not looking at any complaint that any debts
ought to have been written off sooner. If Miss A wishes to complain about that, she will need
to contact Halifax first to enable them to consider her complaint. It isnt clear to me, for
example, if all of these debts comprised of fees and overdraft interest, or if they were debts
accrued directly by Miss A through spending.
Here, Halifax have done enough in relation to the complaint I am looking at. Having 
considered what went wrong here, I think Halifaxs payment of £100 in total of compensation 
and writing off £469.00 was sufficient. I considered this carefully; over all it seems to me 
Halifax properly paid compensation to acknowledge the failures around their service in 
respect of calls, as well as the failures relating to the £469.00 payment and any delays.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Miss As complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax). I think they have done enough here to meet the impact of what could 
have been done better. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman