DRN-2870047
The complaint
Miss H complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) did not update her credit file to
show the correct balance on a credit agreement she was voluntarily terminating and that this
resulted in a delay to a Debt Relief Order (DRO) she was trying to arrange.
Miss H has been represented by Mr F from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) but for
simplicity I will refer to Miss H throughout this decision.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not currently persuaded that Black Horse have offered sufficient redress for the problems
that have been caused here. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her static caravan under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about
it. 
Miss H voluntarily terminated her agreement with Black Horse in November 2019, and I can 
see from the CABs notes that she was told that to end the agreement she would need to 
hand her keys back to the office as it would not be possible to return a static caravan to them 
as would be the case in, for example, a car hire purchase.
Black Horse recorded on her credit file that the balance outstanding was about £25,047 but
that wasnt the case. Miss Hs remaining liability under her voluntary termination was
£8,930.62. The fact Black Horse were still waiting for the proceeds of the sale from the
holiday park was inconsequential.
In their final response they didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint but offered £100 for the
inconvenience caused.
I think Black Horse should have upheld Miss Hs complaint as I dont think it was reasonable
to record the full balance outstanding on her credit file when there had been an agreement
that her outstanding liability was only £8,930.62. Black Horse needed to report Miss Hs
financial commitments accurately and I dont think they had done, until they put matters right
in June 2019.
So, Ive thought about what the impact of this mistake has been on Miss H and what
compensation would be fair in the circumstances.
I can see there were delays before Miss H applied for her Debt Relief Order. Having
reviewed CABs file, it seems these delays were initially unrelated to the reporting of the debt
Miss H had with Black Horse. In April 2019, however, CABs file records correspondence
with Miss H that says, You are now looking to apply for a DRO. So, I think if there was an
impact from Black Horses mistake it was for the period between April 2019 when the DRO
was being considered and June 2019 when the credit report was rectified.
In that time, I can see that Miss H was impacted by the mistake. She was struggling to
process her DRO. She didnt know what to include in it and CAB were advising her that a
DRO couldnt be processed if debts exceeded £20,000. In the meantime, her debts would
have been mounting without any process in place to manage them. When Miss H did finalise
her DRO I think there will inevitably have been some amendments necessary to update the
information in it and that this too will have inconvenienced her.
I can see that in the interim Black Horse contacted Miss H about her liability on the account,
but I think their actions were reasonable given that a debt existed.
Overall, I dont think £100 is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience
Miss H has been caused by these issues and I think Black Horse should increase the
payment to £300 less anything theyve already paid.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Black
Horse Limited to pay Miss H £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes
been caused.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse and Miss H accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.  
Putting things right
Ive seen no reason to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Black Horse Limited to 
pay Miss H £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes
been caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman