DRN-3956354
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society blocked access to his account when he needed 
to make an urgent payment. 
What happened
Mr B tried to make a payment from his account in October 2022 but found his account was 
blocked. Mr B then received a letter from Nationwide explaining that to unblock his account 
hed need to attend a branch with identification. This letter also said Nationwide had 
previously written to Mr B to ask him to provide the identification, but he said he hadnt 
received this letter.
 
Mr B attended the branch with identification a few days later and his account was unblocked. 
He also complained that he didnt receive the initial letter Nationwide said they sent and they 
didnt follow up when they didnt hear from him. 
Nationwide responded to Mr Bs complaint. They explained they had written to customers in 
2016 in preparation for the Wire Transfer Regulations coming into effect requesting they 
provide identification. Theyd also followed the correct process by blocking his account 
following the transaction he made in October 2022. This was because the size of the 
transaction had triggered their system that they had an outstanding identification request on 
his account. They offered Mr B £50 in recognition that they didnt have a copy of the 2016 
letter and hadnt followed up their request when they didnt receive a response from Mr B 
about his identification and that this had caused him inconvenience as it only came to light 
when Mr B tried to use his account. 
An Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. He said, in summary, he was satisfied 
Nationwide hadnt made a mistake in blocking Mr Bs account in October 2022. But said that 
the £50 theyd offered was fair and reasonable in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused in relation to the 2016 letter and not following up with Mr B about it.
 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he felt Nationwide had had plenty of opportunities to contact him 
to provide identification and didnt do so. He said he had further information he wanted to 
provide.
 
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
We asked Mr B to provide any further information he wanted the Ombudsman to consider by 
a specific date. He didnt respond by the deadline, so Ive gone ahead and considered his 
complaint based on the information we have.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, Nationwide can refuse to make payments 
or block access to an account. Theyve also provided evidence of Mr Bs account being 
blocked because sufficient identification wasnt held for him. Mr B was concerned that he 
was in some way targeted by Nationwide in the blocking of his account. He hasnt said why 
he thinks this, but I havent seen anything to suggest this is the case in any event. So Im 
satisfied Nationwide were entitled to block Mr Bs account access in the circumstances and 
ask him to provide identification in line with their process.
 
Nationwide cant provide the letter they say wouldve been sent to Mr B in 2016. So they 
dont know whether Mr B simply didnt receive it, or it wasnt sent at all. But theyve accepted 
that means they mightve made a mistake in 2016 and not contacted Mr B when they 
shouldve done. Theyve also said, when they hadnt heard from Mr B with his identification 
following the 2016 letter, they should have followed up with him. But they didnt. And 
because they didnt, Mr B only found out he needed to do this when he tried to make a large 
payment and couldnt. For these reasons theyve offered Mr B £50 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience. 
I can see from Mr Bs statements he doesnt use the account in question often and it was the 
value of the transaction Mr B made in October 2022 that flagged on Nationwides system. I 
understand that caused Mr B to be unable to make a payment to someone doing work at his 
home. Im sure that was worrying for him. Hes told us he was able to make the payment he 
needed to with the help of a family member and his account was unblocked as soon as he 
attended the branch with identification. So I find the £50 Nationwide has already offered is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society have already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint 
and I find this is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr B £50, if they havent done 
so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman