DRN-4249207
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refuses to refund the money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
Mr T came across an advertisement online for a binary options company Ill call D, he said 
their website looked professional and they had a lot of positive reviews, so he filled out an 
online form. A representative of D called Mr T and explained how the investment worked and 
that they would guide and advise him on what to do. Mr T was provided with a trading 
platform and from November 2016 to January 2017, Mr T made four payments totalling 
£4,400 to D.
When Mr T tried to withdraw his profits, Ds representative asked him to pay more money 
into the account. Mr T realised it was a scam and didnt pay them anymore money. Mr T 
contacted Lloyds to assist with recovering his money in 2018 but it advised that he was out 
of time for it to process any chargeback claims. 
Mr T formally complained to Lloyds in October 2022. The bank declined to refund Mr T, so 
he referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and felt 
Lloyds ought to have been alert to D potentially operating as a scam because of a regulator 
warning published by the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). He 
suggested that Lloyds refund the disputed payments together with interest.
Mr T accepted but Lloyds did not. It said in summary;
It does not consider itself an international bank and nearly all of its retail business is 
conducted within the UK. 
It does not have the skills to assess the quality of each regulator around the world. 
Alerts issued by IOSCO are not vetted by IOSCO and its not realistic for it to vet 
each issuing organisation.
It can only see the information about the merchant entity as provided by the card 
scheme. 
It takes fraud prevention very seriously and uses a wide and deep range of data to 
inform how it protects its customers and it continuously updates the information it has 
where there are known concerns about a particular destination or merchant, relying 
upon trusted information sources. 
The Payment Services Regulations (PSR) 2009 mean it was legally required to 
honour Mr Ts authorised payment instructions, had it not honoured the payment 
reaching D by the next business day, it would have failed to fulfil Mr Ts mandate.
The PSR allows for refunds in certain circumstances, but only where certain criteria 
are met.
Mr T was contacted by D and after a few conversations, without any evidence of any 
due diligence or receiving any documentation, he took what they said at face value. 
He could have done more to protect himself. 
It notes the good and poor industry practice examples provided within the FSA 
Consultation paper from 2012 but they do not carry forward any further note that 
IOSCO alerts must be used as a source of information. The guidance advises the 
guide should be applied in a risk-based, proportionate way, which includes taking into 
account the size, nature and complexity of a firm when deciding whether a certain 
example of good or poor practice is appropriate to its business. 
The BSI Code of Practice was launched after the Relevant Period and so should not 
be applied in this case. 
It does not believe there was sufficient information to provide the level of detail 
needed to categorically have altered Mr Ts decision making. Its normal course would 
be to direct the customer to the FCAs website; however, there was no warning 
against D. 
The complaint was therefore referred to me for determination. 
I wrote to Lloyds acknowledging its points of contention and in summary I explained;
The FSAs thematic review, Banks defences against investment fraud, published in 
2012 (the 2012 paper), continued to be referenced as good practice by the FCA 
over the years. 
The FCA, as well as IOSCOs warning lists are good sources of credible alerts for 
potential investment scammers  according to Lloyds regulator. It was at its 
discretion whether it chooses to use information contained within these lists and I 
thought one month from the date of publication provided sufficient time for firms (like 
Lloyds) to update its own internal systems. 
This was a sophisticated scam and D was not licenced (as required) by the UKs 
Gambling Commission, nor were they licensed or regulated elsewhere. 
Visa fundamentally changed its approach to chargeback when it came to 
unauthorised/unregulated binary options merchants to account for the global rise in 
binary options scams. Lloyds would have had more information about the general 
operation of this type of scam than the average consumer, particularly as it would 
have received complaints from customers repeating the same descriptions of the 
operation of these scammers. 
Interest should be applied from the date of the payments rather than Mr Ts scam 
report. 
Lloyds replied and repeated some of its earlier comments. Ill summarise any new points it 
raised below:
Whilst it appreciates the thematic review was referenced on 13 December 2018, the 
reference to IOSCO warnings isnt drawn out specifically as examples of good or bad 
industry practice in any further publications from the initial review. It believes the 
substance of my judgement which relies on this is limited and doesnt reflect a fair 
and reasonable conclusion and carries an unfair balance influenced with the benefit 
of hindsight. 
Due to companies having very similar names there is a heightened risk of mis-
identification, when you type in the name of D on Mr Ts statement, numerous entries 
are highlighted which adds to the complexity of identifying incorrect companies 
making it harder to provide warnings.
In a recent Supreme Court judgement the court highlighted the banks strict 
obligation to honour authorised transactions. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Lloyds is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSR (in this 
case the 2009 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the customers account. That 
was the case from November 2016 to January 2017, and remains so now. I want to stress 
that I am aware of the case Lloyds has directed me to. And notwithstanding what the court 
decided, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account not just the law and I have taken this 
into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. In addition:
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Business 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime: 
oThe 2012 paper sets out such non-exhaustive examples. And I am satisfied 
that the findings of this thematic review and SYSC 3.2.6R are of relevance to 
both sending and receiving banks. For example, the 2012 paper considered 
banks efforts to counter fraud where both the customer is the fraudster and 
also where the customer is the victim, in light of the regulatory obligation to 
counter the risk that regulated firms might be used to further financial crime, 
including fraud. 
oThe FSA also explained in the 2012 paper that whilst it focused on investment 
fraud it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as well. Specifically, it 
said
 we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, which has prompted 
our particular interest in this area, although the lessons of this report can be 
applied to banks handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct 
affecting their customers. 
Further, the FCA issued a press release (16 March 2021) ahead of their prosecution of 
another bank for alleged failure to exercise due diligence with regard to the requirements of 
regulations 8(1), 8(3) and 14(1) of the Money Laundering Regulations 2007 between 11 
November 2011 and 19 October 2016: These regulations require the firm to determine, conduct and demonstrate risk sensitive 
due diligence and ongoing monitoring of its relationships with its customers for the 
purposes of preventing money laundering. 
It seems clear from this that standards of due diligence and good industry practice have 
existed for a long time  including at the time of the disputed events in our case here. Taking 
all of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payments in 2016/2017, 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have: 
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams; 
maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The 2012 paper indicatedthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated 
watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and 
detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst 
the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect a large 
bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an 
alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically 
trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and 
a possible scam warning) to the payer.
Ive taken on board Lloyds comments about not considering itself an international bank. But 
Ive also taken into account that it advertises itself in the following way; Since 1765, we have 
been providing expert support and guidance to households, businesses and communities of 
Britain. Our expertise and understanding are built on this experience, providing financial 
confidence and peace of mind for our customers of every generation. And so, based on 
Lloyds size and establishment, I dont think its unreasonable for me to suggest that the 
2012 paper ought to have been relevant to it at the material time. 
To be clear, I dont think Lloyds should have been trawling through each regulators warning 
lists in every possible jurisdiction. But I do think the FSA (as it was when the 2012 paper was 
published) highlighted that its own warning list, as well as IOSCOs were good sources of 
credible data to assist banks with account monitoring and I agree. 
There was a regulator warning published about D on IOSCOs Investor Alert Portal dating 
back to July 2016  which is more than a month prior to Mr Ts first payment to them. The 
name of D appears in a number of different formats on the IOSCO alert but Im satisfied the 
name on the alert matches the name that appears on Mr Ts statement. I also carried out a 
search of Mr Ts statement with details of the warning and it only brought up the payments to 
D, rather than multiple payments as described by Lloyds. Im satisfied Mr Ts initial payment 
should have triggered Lloydss fraud detection systems because of this. Therefore, it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to have properly questioned Mr T 
before processing the payment to satisfy itself that all was well.
If Lloyds had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr T would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June and August 2016 warnings and the European 
Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; and so forth). 
Ive further noted that binary options fraud was an international problem, not just restricted to 
the UK. And UK customers were being targeted by unregulated and unlicensed companies 
mainly based overseas and this information is available within the public domain  and was 
at the material time. 
Taking all of this into account, I am satisfied Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have 
intervened by calling Mr T to ask some questions about the nature and purpose of the first 
payment before agreeing to process it. 
If Lloyds had asked Mr T what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with Ds representatives. Lloyds did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr T was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Lloyds ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals 
about the risks associated with unregulated binary options dealers. 
If Lloyds had given a warning, I believe that Mr T would have paused and looked more 
closely into D before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take high risks 
or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable that he 
would have made further enquiries into whether or not D were regulated in the UK or abroad. 
He could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk 
of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied that a warning 
from his trusted bank would probably have exposed Ds smoke and mirrors, causing him not 
to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
representatives (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not licensed or regulated UK 
investments but highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is 
to win. So, before Mr Ts payments were actually processed, he would probably have 
stopped in his tracks. But for Lloydss failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or 
financial harm, Mr T would probably have not lost any money. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr T should share blame for what happened. This was a sophisticated scam and I dont think Mr T could have reasonably been aware (unless prompted by his bank) that he was 
dealing with a scammer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1. Refund all the payments made to D totalling £4,400.
 
2. Pay interest to Mr T on the above sums, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the 
respective dates of loss, to the date of settlement. If Lloyds is required to deduct tax 
from the interest it should send Mr T a tax deduction certificate so she can claim it 
back from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman