DRN-1545054
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about UK Insurance Limited. They aren't happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P had travel insurance through her packaged bank account. She looked to move bank 
accounts in April 2019 but believed she still had travel cover in place for the remainder of the 
month. This was because she had paid that months fee for the account. 
Unfortunately, Mrs P had to have an operation following a cancer diagnosis which meant she 
couldnt go on her coach holiday. She looked to make a claim under her policy and UKI 
started to look into this for her. However, Mrs P was later told that she couldnt make a claim. 
This was because Mrs P had looked to cancel her packaged bank account around the same 
time as her appointment with her doctor, which meant the policy had cancelled a few hours 
before she was referred for diagnosis.
Mrs P wasnt happy about this, so she complained to UKI and then this service. UKI said Mrs 
Ps bank should have told her she wasnt covered as soon as she cancelled the policy, as 
opposed to cover lapsing the following month (even though she had paid that months fee). 
But it offered to repay the costs she incurred (medical certificate costs) and to pay her £50 
compensation. This was in acknowledgement of the fact it failed to tell her that it wouldnt be 
able to consider her claim in the first instance. 
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. He thought UKI should 
settle the claim. This was because the policy was cancelled on the day Mrs P had her 
appointment with the General Practitioner (GP). The policy was cancelled back to the 
beginning of the day (just after midnight) as opposed to the end of the day which wouldve 
meant she was covered. So he thought UKI should deal with the claim and pay interest on 
the amount owed.
As UKI didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. I can understand UKIs position, but I think that turning down the claim in 
these particular circumstances creates an unfair outcome. Ill explain why.
Mrs P clearly believed she had insurance cover in place as she had paid a fee to the bank 
that month. But for some reason the cancellation process wasnt explained to her when she 
cancelled the packaged bank account. Im satisfied that she would have delayed the 
cancellation of her bank account, and so her travel insurance policy, had she been aware 
the cancellation would be backdated to earlier that day. I say this as she was clearly worried 
and had a GP appointment a short while later. And it wouldnt have made any sense for her to cancel the policy at this stage when it wouldnt have cost her anymore to leave the bank 
account open, and so the travel insurance in place a short while longer. 
Mrs P was also suspicious about the timing of the cancellation and I can understand why. I 
say this as Mrs P was told she could make a claim when she contacted UKI. But she was 
later told she couldnt. Indeed, I note the system records show that she upgraded her 
account as opposed to cancelled it on the day of her GP appointment. As such, I dont think 
it is completely clear, from the system notes provided, when the policy actually cancelled. 
Furthermore, I know UKI says the policy is clear that a consumer must have a valid platinum 
bank account in place in order to be entitled to claim. But the policy is a little ambiguous 
here, as it doesnt clearly say when a policy is cancelled from and I would expect this to be 
clear. The policy simply says a consumer can show a copy of their bank statement 
(presumably showing payment) and a copy of the insurance policy to show that they had 
cover in place. But Mr and Mrs Ps statement would show that they had made that months 
platinum bank account payment, so I dont think the policy document is helpful or clear here.
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case is for UKI to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. I think the £50 compensation it has already offered is fair in the circumstances and I 
agree that it can deduct the cost of the medical certificate costs from the settlement. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require UK 
Insurance Limited to deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. Adding 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman