DRN-3340700
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not remove a Tech pack 
that was associated with her account.
What happened
Mrs F has explained that around three years ago, she contacted Barclays and asked for her 
Tech pack to be removed from her account. She says that she did this by telephone and 
during a visit to a branch of Barclays.
The Tech pack was not removed from the account, so monthly fees were charged until the 
pack was cancelled in 2021.
Barclays initially offered six months of account fees as a gesture of good will, but said it had 
no record of these requests and it did not uphold this complaint. Mrs F did not accept this 
offer and Barclays withdrew it, once the complaint was brought to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already. She said that there were no 
records of a downgrade request being made and she said she wouldve expected Mrs F to 
have queried why the pack had not been removed, sooner, had she asked for it to be 
removed.
Mrs F did not agree and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs F and Barclays have told us or sent us about the complaint. And Ive 
decided that this complaint should not be upheld. Ive explained why below.
The crux of the matter is whether Mrs F asked Barclays to remove the packs. From what I 
can see there is no evidence that she did this, apart from Mrs Fs testimony that a request 
was made to remove the packs from her account. 
Mrs F has not been able to give a precise date as to when these requests were made. I can 
see that Barclays has searched for any calls made by the number provided by Mrs F. I can 
also not see any request to cancel her packs in her contact history with Barclays either. 
Given this, there is not enough for me to say on balance that a request was made to remove 
the packs, and that Barclays then failed to act upon such a request.
In addition, I cant see that Mrs F ever queried why the pack remained on her account. I think 
it wouldve been clear on the documentation issued by Barclays, such as bank statements 
and annual summary statements, that the Tech pack remained on her account. 
I note Mrs Fs comments that she asked for all documents to be sent to her electronically. 
And I am satisfied that, at the very least, her bank statements showing the monthly fee 
wouldve been available to view through online banking. So I think overall had Mrs F 
requested the pack to be removed she would have queried this earlier than she did.
So taking everything into consideration there is not enough for me to say that Barclays did 
anything wrong and therefore, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman