DRN-4085741
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited settled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants esure to cover the financial costs he would have pursued.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his policy, but we was unhappy that esure settled it as a fault without 
fully investigating the claim. esure upheld this complaint and changed the claim to non-fault. 
But Mr A was unhappy that it hadnt settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. Mr A 
said this prevented him from pursuing his losses. And he provided a legal opinion that a 
court would likely have settled the claim as split liability. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure had 
agreed that it had conceded liability prematurely. He thought Mr As legal opinion that a 
50/50 settlement could have been achieved was persuasive. So he thought esure should 
cover 50% of the claim costs Mr A lost out on, in line with policy terms.
esure replied that it didnt think it could have achieved an outcome on the claim where Mr A 
wasnt found liable. It asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As solicitor said esure had prejudiced Mr As claim against the other driver because it 
had accepted liability and paid his costs without stating that this was on a without prejudice 
basis. 
Mr A made an earlier complaint to esure about its communication and its settlement of his 
claim. esure accepted that it had insufficiently investigated the claim and didnt question the 
other drivers account. It said the claim may have been settled as split liability as it was one 
drivers word against the others with no independent evidence. 
But after further review esure later said that as Mr A was making a manoeuvre whilst the 
other driver was proceeding correctly, then the greater duty of care lay with Mr A. So it 
thought it wouldnt have been able to defend liability. And so it said that settling the claim not 
on a without prejudice basis hadnt caused Mr A any loss as he wouldnt have been able to 
recover any costs from the other driver in court. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? 
esure is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr A to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr A has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
But we also expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision. And Im not satisfied that esure, by its own admission, 
did this. Its further review of the claim was made by its claims team, but it didnt address the 
further evidence that esure has admitted it should have collected before accepting liability. 
And I cant see that esure requested a legal opinion about the likely chances of a successful 
defence if the matter went to court. 
However, Mr A has provided a solicitors opinion that the claim could have been settled as 
split liability as it was one drivers word against the others. But it isnt now possible to pursue 
this in court as esure didnt settle the claim without prejudice.
Our approach is that where an insurer deals with a claim, then it should be made without an 
admission of liability. This is so that the drivers can still pursue the matter at their own cost if 
they feel strongly about it and so try to recover any uninsured losses, such as personal 
injuries costs and policy excesses. 
Mr A said he made it clear to esure at the start of the claim, before liability was accepted, 
that he would want to make a claim against the other driver. And esure then directed him to 
its solicitors. So I think esure was reasonably aware that Mr A wanted to pursue the other 
driver for costs, and I think it should have settled the claim on a without prejudice basis.
As Ive said above, Im not persuaded that esure has justified its decision that it wouldnt 
have been able to achieve a split settlement if it had fully investigated the claim. So I think 
esures actions have prejudiced Mr As position. 
Because of esures actions, Mr A is no longer able to pursue the other driver for his costs. 
So I think esure should consider Mr As claim costs in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions and cover 50% of the costs he would have realistically recovered from the other 
driver, on provision of reasonable evidence for these. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to consider Mr As claim costs in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions and cover 50% of the costs he would have recovered from the other 
driver, on provision of reasonable evidence for these.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman