DRN-3892765
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy how JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) handled his request for help to recover 
money following cancellation of his honeymoon.
The original credit provider for the credit card was Bank of Ireland Plc. The account is now 
administered by JAJA and JAJA are responsible for the complaint. Therefore, for ease I will 
refer to JAJA throughout. 
At times during the complaint Mr C was represented by his wife. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr C only throughout this decision. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr C paid to hire a campervan for a week. He paid the merchant 
directly, who Ill refer to as M. The trip was for his honeymoon, and he was scheduled to pick 
the campervan up in mid-October 2020. He paid for the hire in full using his JAJA credit 
card. He paid £619.99.
A couple of weeks later Mr C got in contact with M to discuss cancelling the hire. COVID-19 
restrictions in place meant that Mr C and his wife wouldnt be able to travel to collect the 
campervan. Mr C asked M for a refund, but M refused. 
Mr C contacted JAJA for help in recovering the money at the end of September 2020. He 
completed a dispute declaration form and sent it to JAJA with his supporting evidence. JAJA 
considered Mr Cs request and initially declined it. They said the terms and conditions stated 
Mr C was liable for a cancellation fee, and they needed additional evidence to proceed with 
a claim for a refund. Mr C wasnt happy about this and responded to JAJA. He told them the 
terms and conditions didnt mention cancellation at all. He said the only reference he had to 
cancellation of the hire was on the booking invoice, which he didnt receive until a few days 
after hed paid for the hire, as M sent the invoice to an incorrect email address. He asked 
JAJA to reconsider. 
JAJA did, and they raised a chargeback claim for Mr C in early November 2020. They 
applied a credit of £155 to Mr Cs account, as the cancellation terms showed he was entitled 
to a refund of 25% of the total amount of the booking, as hed cancelled the booking 
between 14 and 19 days of the hire period commencing. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this and felt he should be entitled to a full refund. He also said that 
JAJAs service was disappointing, and hed been told when he first discussed his claim with 
JAJA that he had a good chance of getting a full refund. He complained to JAJA. JAJA sent 
Mr C a final response letter in early December 2020. They said the refund applied of £155 
was correct and was in line with the cancellation terms shown on Mr Cs booking invoice. 
They said there wasnt any evidence to suggest M had cancelled the booking, or travel 
restrictions where the campervan was based had stopped the campervan hire from going 
ahead. They gave Mr C a credit of £20 to his account for the poor service and incorrect 
information hed received.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. He said the cancellation terms had been applied correctly by JAJA and the refund 
applied of £155 was correct. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said that the booking invoice had been sent to an incorrect email 
address, so he hadnt been aware of the cancellation terms until five days after hed paid for 
the trip. He also said our investigator hadnt dealt with JAJAs handling of his request. Our 
investigator explained he didnt think Mr Cs response changed his opinion. He said that he 
didnt think Mr C would have done anything different even if he had been aware of the 
cancellation terms sooner  he said Mr C made the decision to cancel the campervan hire at 
a later date because of restrictions being imposed, not because M wasnt able to provide the 
service. 
As Mr C continued to disagree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision 
on 20 December 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JAJA to ask for a payment Mr C made to be 
refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success.
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
S75 says this in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
In Mr Cs case, JAJA did raise a chargeback for him. Having reviewed all the documents
Mr C had provided, they felt he was entitled to a refund of 25% of his total booking as hed 
cancelled it between 14 and 19 days prior to the hire date, and M should have provided this 
refund when Mr C initiated the cancellation of the hire. 
JAJA credited £155 to Mr Cs account while M was given the opportunity to defend the 
chargeback. When that didnt happen, the credit remained in Mr Cs account. Im satisfied 
that JAJA followed the chargeback process correctly here. The cancellation terms are 
outlined on the booking invoice Mr C received before going ahead with the cancellation and 
Im satisfied that he made the decision to cancel the booking having had the chance to 
review them. While I understand Mr Cs reasons for not being able to go ahead with the hire 
of the campervan, JAJA werent provided with anything to show M had enforced the 
cancellation or that the campervan wouldnt be available. It was the restrictions in Mr Cs 
region that prevented him from fulfilling the booking  but that alone isnt reason for a 
chargeback for the full amount to be attempted. 
I know Mr C feels M effectively cancelled the booking when they misquoted the lockdown 
restrictions to Mr C  but Im not persuaded by that. Im more persuaded that Mr Cs email to M on 24 September 2020 and the subsequent telephone calls he made to M confirm he 
wanted to cancel the hire and have his money back. I havent seen anything to suggest the 
campervan wasnt available for the period it was booked for, just that Mr C wouldnt be able 
to travel to make use of the booking.
For Mr C to have a successful S75 claim there has to be a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. The cancellation terms are explained on Mr Cs booking invoice, which 
he received prior to making the decision to cancel, so I cant say that a breach of contract 
has occurred. I know that Mr C feels the contract was misrepresented to him, as he didnt 
receive the booking invoice that explained the cancellation terms until a few days after hed 
paid the full amount for the hire. But for me to agree with him on this point, Id have to be 
satisfied that Mr C would have done something different had the cancellation terms been 
known to him at an earlier stage. And in this case, Im not persuaded that he would have. 
When Mr C booked the campervan for his honeymoon, he didnt book it with the intention of 
cancelling it prior to it taking place. It was only the introduction of lockdown restrictions in his 
region several days later that led to the cancellation of the trip. So, even if M had sent the 
booking invoice and cancellation terms to the correct email address on the date Mr C made 
the payment, I think he would have left the booking in place. Mr C has confirmed that M was 
chosen specifically to fit in with other travel plans that he had in place, and it was the most 
convenient. And at the time of booking, Mr C hadnt mentioned that he was aware that he 
might have to cancel his plans. Indeed, if he had been aware I think he would have clarified 
any cancellation terms with M before proceeding. So, I think it follows that Mr C would have 
continued with the booking on the assumption that the honeymoon would be going ahead  
therefore I dont think the fact the cancellation terms were received a few days after the 
booking have made a difference to the decision Mr C made to book initially. 
What Im considering here is JAJAs liability for a like claim and for me to say its 
reasonable for them to reimburse Mr C for the full amount, Id have to believe a court would 
tell M to reimburse him. I dont think this is by any means clear-cut from the information Ive 
reviewed, and I cant say with any certainty that would happen. So, I dont think its fair to ask 
JAJA to give Mr C a full refund for the campervan hire. 
Mr C has highlighted why hes unhappy with JAJAs handling of his request for help. JAJA 
have accepted they could have done things better, and that some of the information Mr C 
was given when he initially made contact might have been misleading. And theyve credited 
him £20 to reflect that. On the face of it, I think thats fair. JAJA could have progressed 
Mr Cs request sooner and he has mentioned that it took him a long time to get through to 
someone on JAJAs helpline.  But I have to consider the unprecedented circumstances 
facing JAJA at the time. They were having to deal with many more enquiries than expected 
due to the pandemic, whilst also having to continue to adapt their own ways of working to try 
and cope with that demand. Because of that Im not planning on asking them to pay any 
more compensation. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, and I understand why as he feels hes out 
of pocket through no fault of his own. But Im not planning on asking JAJA to do anything 
else here.
Neither party have responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision or supplied any additional information or comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings and 
reasoning in my provisional decision. 
My decision is that I wont be asking JAJA to do anything further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman