DRN-2067405
The complaint
Mr W complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited gave him conflicting information about his 
mortgage balance.
What happened
Mr W made overpayments to his mortgage account with Landmark. Mr W says he received 
confusing information about whether his mortgage account was in credit. In May 2019 Mr W 
called Landmark and was told his mortgage account was in credit by about £22,600. 
Landmark wrote to Mr W saying said that the amount on the account described as credit was 
the amount of overpayments hed made. The mortgage balance (of about £3,200) was the 
amount he still owed, after taking the overpayments into account. 
Landmark said it showed the credit or overpayment amount separately so that Mr W could 
see what payments hed made in addition to his contractual monthly payment.
Mr W complained about being given conflicting information. Landmark upheld Mr Ws 
complaint, saying it was wrong that Mr W had been told on the call in May 2019 that his 
account was in credit. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Landmark 
acknowledged it gave incorrect information on the call. It had written to Mr W clearly 
explaining the outstanding balance on his mortgage account.
Mr W didnt agree. He says he should be compensated as the stress had made his wife ill. 
He says he was given contradictory information by different people at Landmark, so 
someone is telling lies. He said he couldnt understand how the investigator could say 
Landmark hadnt done anything wrong when Landmark had upheld his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr W and his wife have found this matter so upsetting. What I must do here 
though is consider whether Landmark made an error. And, if it did, whether its done enough 
to put matters right.
Landmark has said that it was wrong to tell Mr W in May 2019 that his mortgage account 
was in credit. Landmark acknowledges it made an error. 
I think, to put matters right, Landmark needed to give Mr W clear and correct information. I 
think it did this. It sent letters which explained the credits and outstanding mortgage balance 
and set out the overpayments made by Mr W. 
Landmark said that the amount it referred to as credit was the overpayments made by Mr W. 
These are amounts hes paid in addition to his contractual monthly payment. 
Landmark said that the mortgage balance  of about £3,200  takes these overpayments 
into account. If these payments hadnt been made the mortgage balance (the amount owed 
by Mr W) would be much higher.
While I think Landmark made an error, I also think it took the right steps to put matters right. 
So I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to take further steps 
or pay compensation to Mr W. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman