DRN-3878432
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Wakams handling of a claim he made on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr B was involved in a motor vehicle accident. He notified the claim to Wakam 
on 3 July 2021. Wakam progressed the claim and settled it with the third party on a without 
prejudice basis. Mr Bs claim was paid in May 2022.
In April 2022, Mr B complained about the way his claim had been handled. Wakam issued its 
final response in May 2022 which included a detailed timeline of events and conclusion that 
they hadnt caused any significant delay in progressing the claim. They also said that as 
Mr B moved into another carriageway that wasnt clear, whilst performing a manoeuvre, the 
claim handlers assessment of liability was fair. 
With regard to the evidence Wakam assessed in settling the claim, they explained that the 
third partys total loss was settled on a without prejudice basis to avoid further hire costs 
being incurred. Wakam said that Mr B was performing a U-turn in the middle of the road, and 
his only defence was the speed at which the third party was travelling, which they have no 
evidence of. 
Mr B believes Wakam havent carried out a proper investigation into the events which led to 
him making a claim on his policy. Hes also said that because he wasnt provided with a 
courtesy car while his was being repaired, he lost a weeks income. And Mr B has 
complained that Wakam treated the claim as a fault claim which has impacted his no-claim 
bonus.
In response to a request for information from our investigator Wakam clarified that Mr B was 
told the claim was settled on a without prejudice basis. They also explained that Mr B wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car as his policy didnt allow for that, and also because his vehicle 
was deemed a total loss and wasnt allocated to a repairer.
Our investigator issued his view not upholding the complaint in December 2022. He 
explained that in settling the claim as Wakam did, on a without prejudice basis, theyd acted 
fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. He also explained that 
having reviewed the timeline of events, he didnt think that Wakam had caused any 
unnecessary delays in settling the claim. Finally, with regard to Mr Bs complaint about not 
being offered a courtesy car, he explained that Mr Bs policy didnt include the provision of a 
courtesy car, and even if it had, in cases of total loss, it wouldnt be usual for courtesy car to 
be provided. A courtesy car would usually only be provided while repairs were being carried 
out to the damaged vehicle.
Wakam accepted our investigators view but Mr B did not. He said he needed a proper 
investigation of the incident to be carried out to determine who was at fault. He also said 
there were delays in settling the claim because, for example, the accident happened on 
3 July 2021, but the engineer didnt try to contact him until 25 July 2021, three weeks later. 
Mr B also said that when he was sold the policy, he was told that a courtesy car would be 
included in the comprehensive policy that he took out. 
Mr B has requested an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs first point of complaint is about the basis on which Wakam settled his claim. He 
maintains that the accident wasnt his fault, and he doesnt believe a proper investigation into 
the incident has been carried out to correctly determine who was at fault.
It isnt the role of this service to decide which party is responsible for causing an incident. 
That is a matter for other authorities such as the courts. What we consider is whether or not 
a business has acted in line with their policy terms, and whether the decision they reached 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In this case Ive reviewed Mr Bs policy terms and I am satisfied that they do give Wakam 
discretion to decide liability and deal with the settlement of any claim, as our investigator 
explained. 
Ive also considered the decision that Wakam reached on liability. I think that Wakam did 
take account of Mr Bs events, however, as there were no independent witnesses, and no 
evidence of the speed the vehicles were travelling, it came down to a matter of one persons 
word against another. And given the circumstances of the incident it seems reasonable for 
Wakam to have reached the conclusion they have. Also, Wakam settled the claim on a 
without prejudice basis, which means they didnt admit liability on his behalf. So, overall, I 
think that Wakam did sufficiently investigate the incident before settling it. I can see that Mr B 
feels unhappy about the result but, based on the available evidence, I dont think Wakam 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim as they did. 
Ive next considered Mr Bs complaint about a courtesy car not being provided. Having 
reviewed the policy documentation, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator 
and agree that the provision of a courtesy car wasnt included in the policy documentation. 
While Mr B says he was told that it would be included when he bought the policy, that is 
something hed need to make a separate complaint about, if he believes the policy had been 
mis-sold to him.
Ive also considered Mr Bs claim for compensation on the basis that Wakam unreasonably 
delayed settling the claim. Having reviewed all the available evidence I havent seen 
anything that supports Mr Bs view that Wakam caused delays in settling the claim. Mr B 
says it took the engineer three weeks to contact him after hed notified Wakam of the claim. 
However, Ive seen from the information included in the final response letter that during 
those three weeks the claims team phoned Mr B, sent him a request for information, 
discussed the claim with him, received his validation documentation and accident report form 
and sent instructions to their repair management team who attempted to contact him. So, I 
cant agree that Wakam caused delays in settling the claim, either at the outset, or during the 
period of the claim.
Im therefore not upholding this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman