DRN-2725669
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
actioned an account switch to a third-party bank without agreement from its director, and 
then didnt promptly reopen its account when they were asked to.
Mr C, who is a director of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr C signed an agreement for Ks account to be switched from RBS to 
another bank. 
The new bank initiated the switch process on 2 November 2020, and it was completed on 13 
November. RBS closed Ks account with them on the same day.
Mr C was unhappy with some of the requirements of the new bank, so Mr C asked for the 
switch to be reversed. It was too late for the switch to be reversed but RBS offered to make 
an allowance on this occasion and re-open Ks account; however, due to technical difficulties 
this took much longer than expected. When it became obvious that reopening the account 
would not be straightforward, RBS offered to open a new account for K, but this offer was 
declined.
In the end, RBS took several weeks to re-open the account; and Mr C complained on Ks 
behalf.
RBS said they did nothing wrong by actioning the switch and were not asked to stop the 
switch at any stage by the new bank. They said they offered to reopen the account as an 
exception. They pointed out that theyd also offered to open a new account to speed up the 
process. However, they did uphold the complaint in part and RBS offered to pay £500 to K in 
compensation for the delays.
Mr C was unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by RBS, so he brought the 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said he didnt think it was reasonable to hold RBS responsible for K not 
having had banking facilities during this time. He thought RBSs offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and he said he wasnt going to ask RBS to pay any more 
than it already had.
Mr C didnt agree, so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision. Mr C said the 
award went nowhere near addressing the amount of damage that had been done to K, 
saying the delay had caused cash flow issues and reputational damage. 
I contacted Mr C to ask for any additional information or evidence which would help me 
ascertain the impact this matter had on K. 
Mr C provided the following estimates:
£16,500 + VAT for 30 days dealing with the bank to resolve the matter; and
£30,000 - £50,000 for reputational damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
There are two main elements to this complaint, and Ive set out my thoughts on each of 
these in turn: 
RBS actioning the switch request from the third-party bank
The delays in RBS re-opening Ks account
The switch request
Mr C signed an agreement for Ks account to be switched and agreed the date this should 
happen with the new bank. RBS complied with the instruction and they were not asked to 
stop the switch at any point during the process.
Mr C told us he thinks RBS should have asked for his agreement before they actioned the 
switch instruction from the new bank. However, RBS are not required to seek agreement 
from their customer when a switch request is received from a third-party bank, so I dont 
think RBS have done anything wrong here. 
RBS actioned the request in line with the rules of the switch service so I cant say they 
treated K unfairly or unreasonably.
Re-opening the account
RBS are not required to have a process for re-opening accounts which have been closed as 
part of the switching process, as the purpose of the switching scheme is to facilitate 
customers moving from RBS to other banks. For this reason, RBS do not have an 
established mechanism for reversing a current account switch. RBS offered to re-open Ks 
account as an exception because of the issues K experienced with its new bank.
I can see from the information provided by RBS that there were technical issues in re-
instating the full functionality of the account, and the process of re-opening the account 
proved to be more difficult than they had anticipated. In light of these delays, RBS offered to 
open a new account for K instead, but Mr C declined this offer.
I can understand the difficulties and inconvenience these delays would have caused K. I can 
see that Mr C had to make alternative arrangements as K had no access to an overdraft for 
several months and he had to provide alternative banking details to some of Ks clients. 
RBS have offered to pay £500 to K in recognition of the delays in re-opening the account 
and the inconvenience this caused. I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the following reasons:RBS followed the rules of the switch process and were not responsible for the 
reasons K wanted to reverse the switch process and re-open the account
RBS were not required to re-open the account
RBS offered to open a new account for K when the technical difficulties became 
apparent, but Mr C declined this offer and chose to wait for the account to be re-
opened
As a result, I wont be asking RBS to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf of 
K, to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman