DRN-2807701
The complaint
Miss B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail) trading as 
Argos Financial Services unfairly put a late payment marker on her credit file. She would   
like it removed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: -
I have seen the terms and conditions for Miss Bs account. These make it clear that 
minimum payments are due when there is a balance on the account. And, if the 
minimum payment isnt made, a late payment marker may be charged which may 
make it harder to get credit.  As Miss B didnt make the payment required, I dont 
think Home Retail followed did anything wrong in applying the late payment marker
Ive seen text messages from Home Retail to Miss B  one in January 2021 advising 
her of a payment due and two in March 2021 advising her of a payment due and that 
her buy now pay later (BNPL) plan was coming to an end. I appreciate Miss B might 
have wanted to manage her account relying on text reminders. I dont know why she 
didnt get one for her February payment, but she has told us she opted for electronic 
statements. I have seen these statements they make clear what payment is due 
when and the implications of not making payments on time. I think Miss B had 
enough information to know what she needed to pay when.
Miss has told us Home Retail didnt contact her when she failed to make the 
payment. I dont think its reasonable for Home Retail to contact every consumer as 
soon as a payment is missed. It did send a notice of sums arrears letter to advise the 
account was in arrears. I appreciate Miss B said she didnt get this soon enough to 
make the outstanding payment to avoid a late payment marker. But the purpose of 
the letter, which Home Retail was obliged to send. was to confirm the account was in 
arrears which it correctly did.
I appreciate Miss B has told us the late payment marker has affected her ability to get 
a mortgage although she hasnt sent us any evidence of this. Lenders typically look 
at a range of factors so it may be there were other factors that prevented her getting 
a mortgage. But as I dont feel Home Retail did anything wrong in applying the late 
payment marker, I cant reasonably ask it to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman