DRN-4095711
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt contact him after it declined a payment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision setting out why I intended to uphold this complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence they wished me to consider. 
Below is a copy of what I said. 
In June 2022, Mr M tried to use his Lloyds bank card to buy tickets for a major sporting 
event. He had a window of three-hours to do so on a first-come first-served basis and get the 
tickets at a discounted price. Mr Ms card was declined several times and he couldnt 
understand why  he says he didnt have any messages from the bank, and he tried calling 
Lloyds but couldnt get through.
Mr M continued to try and buy the tickets but wasnt able to get them within the timescales 
he had. He said it took almost three days to get through to a member of staff and be told that 
his card had been declined because the payment may have been fraudulent.
Mr M didnt think hed been treated fairly - he said he would have expected Lloyds to have 
contacted him in the form of a text alert or phone call but to hear nothing wasnt satisfactory. 
He raised and complaint and explained he and his son had lost out on a once in a life-time 
opportunity through Lloydss inaction and it should provide compensation.
Lloyds looked into the complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, it was 
responsible for all payments from Mr Ms account and as such these were subject to review. 
If it had any concerns about a payment it would place a block on the card and contact Mr M 
to check that the payment was genuine. But on this occasion, it didnt contact him because it 
believed the account had been taken over by fraudsters. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. In summary, he 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He said, Lloyds had acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr M in using his card instructed Lloyds 
to make a payment from is account. Lloydss fraud detection systems flagged the payment 
for further verification checks. That doesnt in itself amount to a reasonable belief of fraud or 
unauthorised use. Its simply a trigger that puts the bank on inquiry, causing it to put a block 
on the account pending further checks. Thats what Id expect a responsible bank to do and 
it would be wrong if I were to say that Lloyds was acting unreasonably in having such a 
process in place. But this isnt the end of the matter.
The issue is what should then have happened. Lloydss says ordinarily it would contact its 
customer to check that the transaction is genuine and remove the block where its satisfied it 
is, but it couldnt do that here because it thought Mr Ms account may have been taken over 
by fraudsters. In such a situation it says it would wait for its customer to contact it. 
Ive gone onto consider what good industry practice and the regulations say should happen 
in these types of situations. So, Ive reviewed the relevant sections of the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, specifically section 82 (1) which deals with refusal of payments. This 
says, Ive thought about what its said however Im afraid I have some difficulty with how this 
has been applied in Mr Ms individual case. I say this because, Lloyds hasnt offered any 
evidence that account takeover was actually a reasonably held suspicion here. So, I cant be 
satisfied thats what prevented it from contacting Mr M.
Ive gone onto consider what good industry practice and the regulations say should happen 
in these types of situations. So, Ive reviewed the relevant sections of the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, specifically section 82 (1) which deals with refusal of payments. 
This says,
Subject to paragraph (4), where a payment service provider refuses to execute a payment 
order or to initiate a payment transaction, it must notify the payment service user of  
(a) the refusal 
(b) if possible, the reasons for such refusal; and 
(c) where it is possible to provide reasons for the refusal and those reasons relate to factual 
matters, the procedure for rectifying any factual errors that led to the refusal. 
(2) Any notification under paragraph (1) must be given or made available in an agreed 
manner and at the earliest opportunity  
(4) the payment service provider is not required to notify the payment service user under 
paragraph (1) where such notification would be otherwise unlawful.
The regulations make it clear that a bank should contact its customer and at the earliest 
opportunity. So, I think thats what Lloyds should have done. However, I cant be satisfied 
the earliest opportunity would have been the three-hour window Mr M had to buy the tickets - 
it might have been at some point later in the day. But not contacting him at all, wasnt good 
enough either. Im satisfied Lloydss inaction led to Mr M getting poor customer service, 
causing him significant distress and inconvenience. He would have been disappointed he 
couldnt buy the tickets and frustrated by the overall situation, in particular not knowing why 
and being unable to get through to his bank for so long.
Having weighed everything up I think £300 would be appropriate for Lloyds to pay. I realise 
this is a lot less than Mr M was hoping for, but I cant base my award on his perceived loss 
or the value of the thing he was trying to buy. My award has to be based on the impact and I 
think this figure fairly reflects what Ive described above. Also, I cant award compensation to 
Mr Ms son as he isnt the banks customer  Mr M is, and under our rules the only person 
eligible to bring the complaint is Mr M (who holds a relevant relationship with the business). 
In conclusion, I hope the proposed resolution assists in fairly resolving this dispute.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M £300.
Lloyds responded to say that it didnt have anything further to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr M responded, in summary, he said, he accepted my provisional decision and the 
compensation. But, wanted it to be known that had Lloyds contacted him within three days, 
he could have still bought the tickets albeit at a higher price. He said hed have been 
prepared to pay the higher price not to miss out on the lifetime opportunity. He hoped Lloyds 
would increase the offer of compensation as a gesture of goodwill, due to him being a long-
standing valued customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed my provisional decision again and the responses, I see no reason to depart 
from my conclusions. Lloyds hasnt added anything here to make me change my mind and 
so I remain of the view that it provided poor customer service. 
I note that Mr M accepts my decision and the compensation. However, he has added some 
additional comments. In respect of these, I must stress that the £300 I outlined was what I 
considered to be fair and reasonable recompense for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, particularly the disappointment. Rather than the value of the thing he was trying to 
buy. 
While I can understand why Mr M would like more as a long-standing customer, Im afraid 
thats not a basis for me to require Lloyds to pay him more. It can choose to pay him more if 
it wants to but for the purposes of this final decision my direction is £300. 
It follows that I adopt my provisional decision in full as part of this final decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman