DRN-4044595
The complaint
Mr H complains about how The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) dealt with his mortgage 
applications, because it asked for a particular document which he doesnt think was 
necessary.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr H wanted to remortgage one of his existing rental properties. Through a 
broker, he applied to TMW for a buy-to-let five-year fixed interest rate product at 1.24%. 
The application went smoothly until a valuation of the property was completed on 5 July 
2021. The valuer said that the property required an EWS1 form and an appropriate covering 
letter from a relevant professional body before a valuation for lending purposes could be 
produced. 
An EWS1  external wall system  form is a standard form completed by an accredited fire 
safety expert to assess the risk to the building from combustible cladding or other fire safety 
defects. There is guidance from the government and the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) about the sorts of buildings where an EWS1 may be required. In general, 
its multi-storey buildings such as blocks of flats that are affected, and an EWS1 will set out 
the level of fire risk.
In England, the EWS1 is commissioned by the building owner  either the freeholder or the 
management company  rather than by the individual flat owner.
Mr H says the property he wanted to mortgage is a flat in a three-storey block, constructed of 
brick  and so, under government and RICS guidelines, an EWS1 wasnt required. He had 
asked the building management company, and they thought the same. He asked TMW to 
reconsider.
TMW said the valuer had concerns about the safety of the building and so was entitled to 
ask for an EWS1. The application didnt proceed, and Mr H says his broker told him they 
couldnt find an alternative lender because of the EWS1 issue.
In May 2022, Mr H complained. He hadnt remortgaged the property since the failed TMW 
application and said he had lost out as a result of rising interest rates. 
In July 2022, TMW issued its final response. It said it had dealt appropriately with Mr Hs 
application, although it could consider a fresh application as its requirements had changed. It 
offered Mr H £50 for not calling him back on one occasion and for the time taken to respond 
to his complaint. 
Mr H then made a fresh application, and the valuer again asked for a completed EWS1 form. 
On appeal, a senior valuer agreed to make an exception, and Mr Hs application went 
ahead. In October 2022, his remortgage to TMW completed on a five-year fixed rate of 
3.69%.
Mr H was unhappy about what he saw as TMWs lack of clarity about its own policy and the 
extra interest he has to pay because he didnt get the original 1.24% rate he wanted. He 
referred his complaint to us. 
Our Investigator said that TMW was entitled to ask for an EWS1, so she didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. Mr H said TMW hadnt complied with government 
guidance, and its policies should be compliant. Had they been, he said he would have the 
mortgage deal he originally applied for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage lenders are entitled to have their own lending criteria, in line with their own 
appetite for risk. This will differ from lender to lender. I would expect lenders to take account 
of government and RICS guidance about the circumstances in which an EWS1 and Fire Risk 
Assessment Report are required in setting their own criteria, but that doesnt mean lenders 
cant set a different, higher, bar or requirement. Thats a matter for each lender to decide for 
itself.
Ive seen a copy of TMWs approach to fire safety assessments, and Im satisfied that it 
applied that approach to Mr Hs applications as it would to any other. It instructed a suitably 
qualified surveyor to carry out both valuations, and it followed their guidance in asking for an 
EWS1 form (the surveyors report says they had concerns about cladding and/or balconies 
on the building). TMW was entitled to do that, and to decide whether or not to allow Mr Hs 
applications to proceed without an EWS1. It has said that its view of EWS1 requirements 
has changed over time, and I dont consider that unreasonable or unusual, particularly given 
that the EWS1 process is still relatively new, having only been introduced in 2019.
Mr H has taken issue with the wording in the valuation report, as hes of the view that it says 
an EWS1 was required in line with government guidance. My reading of the report, however, 
is that the surveyor required an EWS1 form and covering letter to be completed in such a 
way that they confirmed the assessment of the buildings external wall system had been 
carried out in line with current guidance. The report says the assessment itself should be 
compliant with guidance rather than that the need for the assessment was in line with that 
guidance. 
In any event, TMW isnt responsible for what the surveyor put in their report. It was 
responsible for appointing a surveyor who was suitably qualified, which Im satisfied it did 
given the surveyors RICS qualification, and it was then entitled to rely on their opinion.
I can certainly see why Mr H feels he has lost out  he has ended up with a higher fixed rate 
than he would have had, had his remortgage gone ahead a year earlier. But I dont find that I 
can fairly conclude this is because of anything TMW did wrong, for the reasons Ive 
explained above. If Mr Hs broker told him there was no point in looking at other lenders in 
2021, then I think thats a matter for Mr H to take up with the broker if hes now unhappy with 
that advice.  
Mr H has also said he was trapped with his previous lender before he managed to move his 
mortgage to TMW in 2022, as his mortgage was part of a closed book. While the previous 
lender is part of the same group as TMW, this isnt a complaint for TMW and is something 
Mr H will need to complain about to the previous lender if he wishes to do so.Finally, TMW has offered Mr H £50 for some administrative failings as set out above. I think 
those failings will have caused Mr H some annoyance and frustration, and in all the 
circumstances I find £50 is a fair award to reflect that.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has done enough to put things right, 
and it should pay Mr H £50 should he wish to accept that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman