DRN-3373410
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the way he was treated in branch by Lloyds Bank PLC when a 
deposit he made was counted incorrectly
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr C, and by Lloyds Bank, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr C paid in £7,600 however an error was made when the money was counted, it 
was £110 short. This shortfall was credited to Mr Cs account the next working day.
Mr C didnt get a phone call at the end of the day, like he was promised, to explain if 
the money had been found. While Lloyds Bank has explained the branch was short-
staffed at that time, so they prioritised returning the money to the account and 
helping other branch customers. I can understand why Mr C would have been 
worried about the money and upset he hadnt received a phone call. 
Mr C has further explained he felt embarrassed by the situation in branch, and that 
the cashier doubted his version of events by suggesting the automated counter 
wasnt usually wrong. 
Lloyds Bank has admitted it made an error counting the money and that Mr C should 
have received a phone call to let him know what had happened. It has offered him 
£50 compensation. It has also explained to this service that it has provided feedback 
to the branch about what happened. 
I understand why Mr C would have felt embarrassed at the time and worried about 
what happened, especially given he didnt get a phone call. However, I have also 
weighed this against the fact Lloyds Bank put the matter right quickly, offered an 
apology and compensation. 
Having considered everything, I think the actions Lloyds Bank have taken to put the 
matter right are fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman