DRN-2424974
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy she didnt receive a refund when she cancelled insurance on a car she had 
insured under a multicar policy with EUI Limited. She complains she wasnt told about this 
when taking out the insurance for her new car. 
What happened
Ms M had a car insured with EUI Limited, which Ill refer to as car 1. Around half-way 
through the policy period, she added another car  which Ill refer to as car 2, to the policy 
which then gave her a multicar policy. Ms M then sold car 1 and removed this from her 
policy. She was then told by EUI Limited that no refund was due for the cover she hadnt 
used for car 1 because this had been offset by cancellation charges applied for removing car 
1 from the multicar policy. 
  
Ms M complained to EUI Limited and said she was unhappy she isnt due a refund and she 
felt it was unfair she wasnt told about various charges during discussions with them about 
adding car 2 to the policy. EUI Limited said, on a multicar policy, they apply a discount to the 
overall premium, which can increase with the more cars a policyholder adds to it. At the start 
of the insurance term, they calculate the price with the discount based on the number of cars 
included. They also use the assumption the cars would remain insured until the end of the 
policy period. They said, as Ms M removed car 1 before the end of the term, the remaining 
car was no longer eligible for the full discount previously calculated. When Ms M removed 
car 1 from the policy, EUI Limited adjusted the premium to reflect the loss of the multicar 
discount, which she was no longer entitled to.
 
EUI Limited explained the various charges which applied when Ms M removed car 1 from 
the policy. They said the cancellation cost was made up of a cancellation fee of £29.50, 
£5.00 for any extra products and the loss of discount on car 2. They said this meant there 
would be no additional cost to pay however there would be no refund for the remainder of 
the term for car 1. They didnt uphold the complaint but said they understand Ms M was left 
frustrated because the discount for car 2 was not available. So, they refunded the 
cancellation fee of £29.50 and the £5.00 fee by way of an apology.
 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M. She thought EUI Limited hadnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I can see Ms M added car 2 so theres no dispute here that Ms M had a multicar policy. The 
first point Ive looked at is whether EUI Limited explained to Ms M what would happen if she 
removes car 1 from the policy. Ive seen Ms Ms Car Insurance Guide which sets out the 
terms and conditions. This says: 
If you have more than one car on cover, or have arranged to insure other cars from 
a future date, then you would have received a discount on your overall premium. If 
any car is removed from the policy, the entitlement to a discount is lost. 
Consequently, the premium will be adjusted for each car.
Should you cancel outside the 14 days, you will be charged on a daily pro rata basis 
for the time you have had on cover, plus an administration charge. We will refund any 
remaining premium.
I can see from case notes provided by EUI Limited that Ms M made enquiries about adding 
another car to her policy. The agent at EUI Limited confirmed the cost to add car 2, which 
would be covered until Ms Ms renewal in January 2021. The agent confirmed the cost and 
the multicar discount which would be applied. Ms M then asked whether she could cancel 
car 1 once its sold. The agent explained she could but there will be a removal fee and loss 
of discount. A few days later, Ms M contacted EUI Limited to proceed with adding car 2 to 
the policy. The notes provided by EUI Limited show that the agent explained a £29.50 fee 
applies if Ms M removes the additional vehicle from the policy plus any time on cover costs. 
The notes also record that Ms M was told she would lose any multicover discount applied. 
The notes say the agent also explained the circumstances under which a £5.00 fee apply.
About two weeks later, Ms M contacted EUI Limited to remove car 1 which she had sold. 
The notes say the agent then followed the cancellation script and explained Ms M would be 
charged for the time on cover, along with a cancellation fee of £29.50 as well as the loss of 
any multicar discount, plus £5.00 for any policy upgrades. They said, by removing car 1 
there is an additional premium of £189.42 on car 2 due to the loss of multicover discount. 
They explained, overall, there is no reduction or additional cost to pay. Ms M then queried 
this as she felt a refund would be due.   
Taking this all into account, I think the terms and conditions do make it clear that Ms M 
would lose her discount if she removes a car from the policy before the end of the policy 
period. The terms and conditions also set out how EUI Limited will calculate the charges for 
the time Ms M has had on cover. And, given that Ms M cancelled the policy for car 1 outside 
the 14-day cancellation period, its reasonable for EUI Limited to charge for the time Ms M 
had on cover on a daily pro-rata basis. So, I think EUI Limited have acted in line with their 
terms and conditions. I have also seen that EUI Limited did, during discussions with Ms M, 
explain what would happen if she decided to remove car 1 from the policy. 
I understand Ms M is concerned about not receiving a refund and how any refund she feels 
she was due appears to have been cancelled out by additional charges due to EUI Limited. 
So, Ive looked into this further. EUI Limited have provided a breakdown showing how they 
calculated the figure which represents the cover not used by Ms M for car 1. EUI Limited 
have said this is commercially sensitive information so while Im unable to refer to it in my 
decision, I wish to reassure Ms M that I have carefully reviewed the information and carried 
out my own calculations. Ive seen a table which shows how the annual premium for car 1 
was calculated. The table then provides a breakdown which shows the pro-rata cost to Ms M 
for the cover provided for car 1. And, this figure, when deducted from the annual premium, 
arrives at a figure which represents the amount which Ms M would be due as a refund. The 
figure I have reached following my own calculations matches the figure calculated by EUI 
Limited. 
EUI Limited then calculated what additional charges became due following the removal of 
car 1. Car 2 was added to the policy around half way through the policy period, so EUI Limited charged a premium of £299.62 to provide cover for car 2 until the renewal date in 
January 2021. This figure included discounts which had been applied on the basis that Ms M 
now had a multicar policy. EUI Limited have said this is commercially sensitive information 
but again I have done my own calculations to ensure they match the figures calculated by 
EUI Limited. The removal of car 1 from the policy had the effect of removing the multicar 
discounts which had been applied to the premium for car 2. And this in turn led to the 
premium for car 2 being adjusted. The terms and conditions do set out that any premiums 
will be adjusted following removal of a car from the multicar policy. So, EUI Limited have 
acted in line with the terms and conditions by adjusting the premium for car 2 and this meant 
a further sum was now due from Ms M. Ive taken the figure Ive calculated for the refund 
and deducted the figure Ive calculated for the additional charges to Ms M after she removed 
car 1 from the policy. Having done this, I cant say a refund is due to Ms M. In any event, I 
understand EUI Limited have refunded the £29.50 cancellation fee and £5.00 fee.  
I understand why Ms M feels the only discount applied was £61.02. But, I think it helps if I 
explain this discount was awarded to the premium for car 1 after Ms M added car 2 to the 
policy. There were separate discounts applied to the premium for car 2 which were then lost 
following Ms Ms decision to remove car 1. So, the loss of discounts meant the premium for 
car 2 increased and this is what led to the additional charges being higher than what Ms M 
believes they should be.        
In summary, EUI Limited have followed the terms and conditions so I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this case. And, I think theyve acted reasonably in the 
calculations theyve carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman