DRN-3392402
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited didnt cover the cost of medical treatment 
under this travel insurance policy.
Mr M is being represented in this complaint but as he is the policyholder, Ive referred to him 
throughout my decision. And all references to Astrekska include its medical assistance team 
and representatives. 
What happened
Mr M had the benefit of a silver annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy covering the period 
end of August 2020 to end of August 2021 which was underwritten by Astrenska (the 
policy).
In December 2020 Mr M travelled abroad - to a country Ill refer to as S - to help care for a 
family member. Towards the end of December, whilst still abroad, Mr M suffered a shoulder 
injury for which he received medical attention. A family member notified Astrenska of Mr Ms 
injury.
In early January 2021, the medical practitioner (an orthopaedic surgeon)  who Ill refer to as 
the Medical Practitioner - met with Mr M to undertake a further clinical examination. He also 
considered the result of a MRI scan. 
They advised that: there is an indication for an operation, which should be done during the 3 
months after the accident to have a good result according to the literature. Some authors 
even say that the repair should be done during the first 3 weeks. 
The medical practitioner proposed operating on Mr M around 12 days later and said that due 
to the impact of Covid-19 on the NHS in the UK at the time, Mr M wouldnt have been able to 
have the surgery he needed within the necessary timeframes. 
The medical report was referred to Astrenskas medical team for comment. And they agreed 
that proposed surgery was reasonable. However, they sought confirmation as to whether the 
proposed surgery was being undertaken privately or under the reciprocal agreement that 
existed between S and the UK. If the hospital was looking for a guarantee of payment for the 
surgery, it said it would need to seek authorisation from the underwriters.
Astrenska was then notified that the only hospital that could perform the surgery under the 
reciprocal agreement was unable to do the surgery due to the pressure on their facilities at 
the time. So, an assurance that the cost of surgery would be covered under the policy was 
required.
Around four days before the surgery was due to take place, the underwriters said that Mr M 
had travelled against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) which was 
in place at the time. It was its position that Mr M had travelled for non-essential reasons and 
was therefore not covered for anything related to Covid-19.
However, it also said that as Mr M was fit to fly the request for the private surgery abroad 
was declined, as the reason private treatment was required was directly related to Covid-19.
It said it would cover the costs of repatriating Mr M to the UK as soon as possible so that he 
could have surgery there. But the policy would not respond to the fact there may be a 
waiting list in the UK as we are able to get him home, and the private treatment only 
necessary due to Covid.
This was contested on behalf of Mr M. And the day before the surgery was due to take place 
Astrenska said:
The underwriters note that the reason for private treatment is not primarily due to 
Covid, however the policy excludes anything related directly or indirectly related to 
Covid. Our medical team have confirmed that [Mr M] is fit to fly, and that we could 
repatriate him with one extra seat to give his injured shoulder some protection. 
Although the surgery is required within 3 weeks to 3 months, this would not be seen 
as emergency and treatment can wait until we can get him home. The policy covers 
emergency medical expenses and repatriation.
Mr M went ahead with the surgery  paid for by his family - and raised a complaint with 
Astrenska about its decision not to cover the costs incurred under the policy. Astrenska 
maintained its position so a complaint was referred to our service to consider. 
Our investigator didnt think Astrenskas decision not to cover the surgical costs was unfair or 
unreasonable. Mr M disagrees so his complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but, 
ultimately, I dont think Astrenska has unreasonably declined the claim. 
Astrenska has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy (at section 4) does provide cover for 
costs incurred relating to emergency medical treatment outside of the policyholders country 
of residence - and repatriation. 
But the policy also says theres no cover for:
surgery or medical treatment which in the opinion of the attending medical 
practitioner and the medical emergency service doctor can be reasonably delayed 
until your return to your country of residence.
for treatment or services provided by a private clinic or hospital, or any additional 
hospital costs arising from single or private room accommodation unless the medical 
emergency service have agreed that this is medically necessary.
Although the FCO was advising against all but essential travel to S at the time Mr M travelled 
to S, Astrenska has accepted that he was travelling for an essential reason. However, it 
maintains that the medical costs relating to his surgery in January 2021 arent covered as he didnt require emergency treatment. I dont think Astrenska has unreasonably concluded this 
because:
The policy only covers the costs of emergency medical treatment abroad. Emergency 
treatment isnt defined under the policy. However, Im satisfied that a reasonable 
person at the time of entering into the insurance contract would consider the term 
emergency treatment to refer to medical treatment that was required urgently or 
immediately and could not wait. 
The Medical Practitioners letter dated 7 January 2021 says that Mr M needed to be 
operated on within three months of the accident to have a good result  perhaps 
even during the first three weeks. So, I think Astrenska has fairly concluded that the 
treatment wasnt an emergency. 
The Medical Practitioner also said on 24 March 2021 that given Mr Ms type of injury 
it is standard practice to consider surgical treatment, it is known that there is 
significant risk that it will worsen. Moreover, most authors state that, in a traumatic 
context, it is recommended to operate, if possible, less than 3 months after the 
trauma, whereas for others it is necessary to operate within 3 weeks. For these 
reasons, it is mandatory for me to operate rapidly young patients with Mr Ms type of 
injury. However, again, I dont think this supports Mr Ms position that he required 
emergency surgery or that surgery couldnt wait his return to the UK, as Astrenska 
concluded.
I understand the point made by Mr M; that the Medical Practitioner (the attending 
practitioner in this case) advised that the treatment should take place in S. And so, 
theyd concluded that surgery couldnt be reasonably delayed until Mr Ms return to 
the UK. However, that wasnt because Mr M required an emergency operation.  
Although the operation was arranged for mid-January 2021, I dont think it was 
essential  even on the Medical Practitioners own evidence  that the operation took 
place by then. It was the Medical Practitioners opinion that if surgery was delayed 
until Mr M returned to the UK, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, its 
unlikely he wouldve received the medical treatment he needed within three months 
of injuring his shoulder. But for reasons Ive gone on to explain further below, Im not 
persuaded that theres sufficient evidence thats likely to have been the case. 
The surgery took place around four weeks after Mr M sustained his injury. And I dont 
think Astrenska has unreasonably relied on that fact when concluding that this wasnt 
emergency treatment. 
Mr Ms flight to the UK had been cancelled due to the global impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic at the time. However, Astrenska offered to cover repatriating him back to 
the UK  and booking him another flight ticket  so that he could access any medical 
treatment he required on the NHS. I dont think this was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Astrenskas medical team has said that given the nature of Mr Ms 
injury, he was fit to fly, and this wouldve been a straightforward repatriation with the 
provision of one extra seat for the comfort of Mr M. Ive seen no other medical 
information from the time to suggest that he wasnt fit to fly. 
Another medical practitioner (a consultant trauma and orthopaedic surgeon based in 
the UK) has also said in a letter dated the end of March 2021 that Mr M required 
time critical surgical care and given the relative surgical resource availabilities in S 
and the UK (which under surge conditions due to the Covid epidemic, with limited 
access to theatres for lesions other than those with potential life or limb threatening 
consequences). However, that may be his opinion of the situation at the time but I dont think thats enough for me to conclude on a balance of probabilities that had Mr 
M returned to the UK in January 2021, attended an accident and emergency 
department and required surgery in a timely manner, this wouldnt have happened. 
Further, even if the suggested surgery Mr M was advised he needed wasnt able to 
proceed on the NHS within the advised timeframe, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Astrenska to fairly and reasonably cover the surgical costs Mr M 
incurred. As set out in the policy terms and conditions, the policy wasnt a private 
medical insurance policy. So, whilst I can  of course  understand why Mr M wanted 
to be operated on in S to avoid the uncertainty of the surgery not taking place in the 
UK within the necessary timeframe  Im not convinced that this amounts to 
emergency treatment or that it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Astrenska 
to cover the costs relating to the surgery under the policy.
Astrenska did initially say that the proposed surgery was reasonable. However, once 
it was told that the surgery was to be undertaken on a private paying basis, it referred 
the matter to its underwriter who advised that it wouldnt cover the surgical treatment. 
And Mr M was aware that Astrenska wouldnt be covering the cost of the surgery and 
took the decision to go ahead. Thats of course a decision he was free to make but I 
think he knew at that stage that he was responsible for the cost. And before the 
operation took place, he was also aware that Astrenksa didnt consider the surgery to 
be a medical emergency under the policy  so wasnt looking to cover the cost.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman