DRN-3389880
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O bought a short term car insurance policy with Aviva in January 2018. He was involved 
in an accident in February 2018 and made a claim on his insurance.
Aviva investigated the claim. It found that Mr O wasnt registered at the address he gave on 
his insurance application. It decided Mr O had deliberately misrepresented his address, so it 
avoided his policy and retained his premiums. 
Mr O didnt complain about this at the time. However, in March 2021 Aviva contacted Mr O. 
It told him he owed Aviva just under £10,000 relating to claims by the third parties involved in 
the February 2018 accident. Aviva said it was entitled to ask him to reimburse the costs it 
had incurred.
Mr O was incredibly distressed by this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants 
Aviva to settle his February 2018 claim and pay compensation for the stress it caused him.  
Our investigator recommended that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr Os 
misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate. She also thought this wouldnt have 
stopped Aviva insuring Mr O. As a result, she didnt think Aviva had acted reasonably by 
avoiding the policy. She asked Aviva to settle Mr Os 2018 claim in line with the policy terms.
Aviva disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 March 2022. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva says the policy address was deliberately misrepresented and this misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless. Under CIDRA, this meant it could avoid Mr Os policy. Ive got 
to decide if this was a reasonable thing for Aviva to do.
The first thing for me to decide is: was there a misrepresentation? Ive thought about this 
very carefully and Im not persuaded there was. 
Mr O took out the policy online via an insurance intermediary. We asked Aviva to show us 
exactly what questions Mr O was asked when he bought his policy. Aviva didnt provide this. 
Instead, it told us:
[The intermediarys] policies are usually taken out by drivers who are borrowing a 
vehicle from a friend or relative, or looking to insure a recently-purchased vehicle and 
can range between 1-28 days of cover. Due to the nature of such cover, it is 
expected that customers enter their current address when applying and no checks 
are done at this stage. [my emphasis]
Mr O told Aviva hed been living with a friend since July 2017. He said he couldnt provide 
proof of address because:
His friend held the tenancy.
He was unemployed so didnt have a current payslip.
He wasnt claiming Job Seekers Allowance.
His postal address was still his parents address.
However, Mr Os previous employment contract and most recent payslip  from September 
2017, four months before the accident  both showed his friends address. So I dont think 
theres any doubt that Mr O had recently lived there. 
Mr O was moving around with short term addresses, so I understand why hed give his 
parents address to anyone who needed it. This would ensure he received any important 
postal correspondence rather than risk it not being received. And given the short-term nature 
of his living arrangements, and the fact he wasnt renting a place under his own name, I 
dont find it particularly strange that Mr O hadnt changed the address on his driving licence 
or V5 form  the documents Aviva relied on to argue Mr O provided the wrong address. 
Aviva appears to suggest Mr O should have put his parents address on his application. But I 
dont think this would have been right when he was living  and driving  in a completely 
different part of the country during the month of cover. Indeed, this would have been 
misleading because his insurance would have been assessed on an incorrect risk. And I 
think Aviva might reasonably have made the same argument in the event of a claim if hed 
done this  that he wasnt living with his parents so had misrepresented his address. The 
same argument cant be true in both situations.
If the intermediarys online portal asked Mr O to provide his current address, as Aviva told 
us, I think its entirely understandable that Mr O gave his friends address. I think a 
reasonable consumer would have done the same. And I think this particularly relevant given 
the policy was only for a month. So I dont think Mr O made a misrepresentation because I 
think he answered the question about his current address correctly. 
I think its worth making one other comment about this. Even if I agreed with Aviva that Mr O 
had made a misrepresentation, Id have to decide whether this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. If it wasnt, Aviva cant take any action, even if the 
information Mr O gave was wrong. 
To do this I first have to answer a simple question: did the customer take reasonable care 
when giving they gave answer they did? And I think Mr O did take reasonable care for 
exactly the same reasons I set out above. I think he answered the question about his current 
address honestly and I dont see what other answer he should have given. This means there 
isnt a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, and Aviva cant avoid his policy.For the reasons above, I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to avoid Mr Os policy. 
Subject to any responses I get to this provisional decision, I think Aviva should settle the 
claim in line with the policy terms. And as I dont think the policy can be avoided, I dont think 
Aviva can ask Mr O to repay its costs.
Mr O told us he sold the car soon after the accident. Ive seen no information about the 
damage caused by the accident or how much Mr O sold it for. Im also conscious that Aviva 
didnt have the chance to inspect it before Mr O sold it. So I recognise that settlement isnt 
straightforward here.
However, I think the fairest way for Aviva to settle the claim would be for it to use the 
information it has to value Mr Os car at the date of the accident, ask Mr O to provide 
evidence of how much he sold the car for, and pay him the difference. It should add interest 
to this settlement amount from the date it initially rejected his claim.
Finally, I think Avivas actions have caused Mr O some distress: first, by its original decision 
to avoid the policy in 2018; second, by threatening legal action to recover its costs three 
years later. I think it should pay him £200 to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt agree with my provisional decision. It says, in summary:
Mr O didnt meet the policy terms, so it avoided the policy.
It gave Mr O the chance to prove his address but he couldnt do this.
It wouldnt have rejected his claim if hed given his parents address. For this type of 
policy, the customer should provide their permanent address even if he was living 
temporarily in a different part of the country.
Mr O took out six policies between November 2017 and February 2018 using his 
friends address.
Mr O doesnt think my proposed award of £200 adequately reflects his loss. He says, in 
summary:
He sold his car to a third party company for just under £700. He sent us a copy of a 
bank statement showing this. He also told us he was trying to get an invoice showing 
how much he paid for the car in December 2017.
He paid a tow company almost £200 to transport his car to the buying company.
He was unable to find affordable insurance after Aviva avoided his policy.
This meant he had no option but to rent cars [at] very high prices.
This also meant he couldnt build up a no claims discount over the past four years.
He suffered an increased financial burden and stress because of Avivas actions. 
This affected his quality of living.
He has lost faith in consumer protection and wants to deter Aviva from treating other 
customers unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Avivas arguments, but it still hasnt provided any evidence to show why this 
was a misrepresentation under CIDRA  the reason it avoided Mr Os policy. Aviva has simply repeated its position that Mr O should have given his permanent address, which it 
says should have been his parents address. 
But as I set out in my provisional decision, the key issue under CIDRA is to look at the 
questions Mr O was asked  and the answers he gave  when he bought the policy. And 
Aviva hasnt shown that Mr Os answer to the question he was asked about his current 
address was wrong.
I also dont see how Avivas statement that Mr O took out six policies using his friends 
address helps it. This just confirms that Mr O was living with his friend and using that 
address for his car insurance over several months. I set out the reasons why he couldnt 
provide proof of this address in my provisional decision.
So Aviva hasnt provided any new evidence that changes my decision.
On the other hand, Mr O believes my proposed award isnt enough. I understand his points. 
However, if he was so seriously affected by Avivas decision to avoid his policy I might 
reasonably have expected him to complain about this long before now. His complaint was 
prompted by Avivas attempts to recover its costs, not for the losses hes now set out. Im 
satisfied that my proposed redress  to compensate Mr O for the financial loss he suffered 
by selling his damaged car below market value, and for the distress Aviva caused him in 
March 2018 when it declined his claim and cancelled his policy  is fair.
For the reasons above, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Os claim by paying him the difference between the market value of his car 
and the amount he sold it for.
Add interest to this amount at 8% a year simple from 16 March 2018 to the date of 
settlement.
Stop its claim for costs against Mr O.
Pay Mr O £200 for the distress it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman