DRN-4253410
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Lifestyle (Glamorgan) Limited 
(Lifestyle) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017.
Mr C had been a client of Lifestyle since 2014 and he had consolidated a couple of money 
purchase pensions into a personal pension plan with Aviva.
In July 2017, Mr C contacted Lifestyle to discuss his BSPS benefits. He was concerned 
about the security of his pension and about the possibility of it moving to the PPF or to a new 
scheme with lower benefits.
A fact find was completed which showed:
Mr C was 47, living with his long-term partner and his young daughter and was in 
good health.
He had a salary of £40,000 per year and his partner was earning £10,000 per year. 
Their joint net income was £3,300 per year with outgoings of £3,000. They owned 
their own home worth around £200,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £130,000. 
They had no savings.
Mr C had joined the new company defined contribution (DC) pension scheme in April 
2017 with combined employee and employer contributions of 20% being paid into it.
His personal pension with Aviva had a value of around £40,000. He wanted to 
transfer his BSPS pension into the same plan. His partner had a personal pension 
worth around £26,000 and a workplace pension with a value around £12,000 with 
combined employee and employer contributions of 10%.
Including the transfer value from the BSPS, Mr C was aiming for a personal pension 
value of £300,000 at age 60 plus another £100,000 from his DC pension. He then 
wanted to take £100,000 in tax-free cash and draw a higher income from his 
pensions until state retirement age and then reduce his income from the drawdown 
plan when a large part of their income would be met by his and his partners state 
pensions. Mr C said he was unsure of his income needs but expected being 
comfortable on £2,000 per month in retirement.
Mr C was interested in his financial affairs and was monitoring his personal pension 
which he was happy with. His attitude to risk with regards to his pension was 
assessed as moderately cautious (Risk Profile 5). He wanted to lower the current risk 
profile of his Aviva pension from a Level 6 as he wanted less risk with a larger fund.
As he was unmarried, he was concerned that his BSPS pension would die with him 
and he wanted his daughter to inherit his pension.
A suitability report was subsequently issued in August 2017 which recommended Mr C to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to his existing Aviva pension. The reasons why this was the 
suitable strategy were listed as tax-free cash flexibility, income flexibility, greater death 
benefits, tax planning, investment control and succession planning.
The adviser came to the conclusion that neither the PPF nor the new BSPS2 would offer him 
the flexibility and control he wanted in retirement.  
Mr C complained to Lifestyle in 2021 about the advice he received. He said it wasnt 
suitable. Lifestyle rejected his complaint.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators upheld his complaint. 
He agreed Lifestyle had given unsuitable advice. 
Lifestyle disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Lifestyle has provided very detailed comments on this complaint and I understand they feel 
aggrieved that Mr C has made, as they see it, a spurious and speculative complaint. I have 
considered everything they said but will focus on what I consider to be the key points. The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lifestyles actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and
its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 G:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the effect
of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have to
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of the
assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to the
ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from crystallisation
at normal retirement age under that scheme.Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being
given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not regard a
rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined benefits
pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Did Lifestyle take reasonable steps to ensure a DB transfer was suitable for Mr C?
Financial viability
Lifestyle prepared a transfer value analysis (TVAS) at the time of the advice to show what 
investment returns were required in the personal pension to match the DB benefits at age 65 
(critical yield). The comparison was done on a joint life basis which means it included the 
spouses benefits that the DB pension would provide. If Mr C took tax-free cash, the critical 
yield needed was 6.03%.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
the advice was given in this case.
The discount rate in this case was 4.4% per year if Mr C retired at age 65 and 4% if he 
retired at 60. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
Taking this into account along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and Mr Cs
moderately cautious attitude to risk I think it was unlikely Mr C could meet or exceed this 
critical yield over the long term. I acknowledge that the funds Mr C would invest in had performed well over the past five years. Lifestyle had noted in their records that they had 
grown by approximately 9% per year with relatively low volatility which they thought 
compared favourably with the critical yield. However, as they will know, past performance is 
no guarantee for future performance and I think it was likely returns of 6% per year would not 
be achieved in the long term. So he would likely achieve overall lower benefits in the 
personal pension.
The report did mention that income could be higher in the DB scheme, however the critical 
yields werent put in any context in the suitability report and given the mention of the 9% in 
their notes, I think its plausible to think that this was the message they would have given Mr 
C. He had been happy with the performance of his existing Aviva pension, so I think it would 
have been easy for him to believe that critical yields could be achieved. Lifestyle should 
have made it clearer in my view that over the longterm such performance was a lot less 
likely. 
I then considered that Mr C was looking to retire at age 60 and he was unmarried, so his 
partner would not be guaranteed a spouses pension from the BSPS. During the course of 
this complaint Lifestyle requested a backdated TVAS comparing his benefits at age 60 and 
on a single life basis. They also factored in Mr Cs actual transfer value slightly increasing 
(around £4,000) between August and October when the transfer happened.
Whilst this is something that should have happened at the time, Im willing to accept that this 
would have been a reasonable comparison in these circumstances.
At the time of the advice in August it was clear that the BSPS would not continue to exist as 
it was and there wasnt yet enough information about the benefits available from the BSPS2. 
So comparisons in the transfer value analysis should have been done against the PPF. The 
PPF critical yields are only shown on one basis (which includes a spouses pension). Based 
on Mr Cs wish to take tax-free cash in retirement, the critical yield at 65 would have been 
4.13% and 5.47% at age 60. The higher critical yield at age 60 is due to the more generous 
early retirement factors in the PPF. 
I considered the reductions in critical yields between single and joint life for the BSPS 
benefits in the TVAS which were 0.44% at age 65 and 0.64% at age 60. So I think its 
reasonable to assume similar reductions for the PPF. This would mean the critical yields to 
meet PPF benefits on a single life basis to be in the region of 3.69% at age 65 and 4.83% at 
age 60.
I think if Mr C was to retire at 65 there was a realistic chance he could have matched and 
even exceeded the PPF benefits on a single life and joint life basis. However, at age 60 
which was his aspiration, I think this was a lot less likely. And if Mr C decided to get married 
at any point in his lifetime it was even more unlikely he would match the benefits.  
Even if I accept there was a chance that he could maybe match the benefits at age 60, I 
dont think he could realistically improve on them in the personal pension. 
By transferring his pension it was more likely Mr C would receive overall lower benefits in 
retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Cs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall
lower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and death benefitsThis was the major reason for recommending the transfer. Mr C wanted flexible benefits 
from age 60 and be able to take a large tax-free cash lump sum and higher income before 
state pension age. And he was concerned that his DB benefits would not be guaranteed to 
go to his partner as they werent married and that nothing would go to his daughter either.
Mr C seemed to have a good idea of what he thought he wanted to achieve with his pension. 
However, I think he already had flexibility within his existing benefits and in my view he could 
have met his objectives without giving up valuable guarantees. Mr C and his partner already 
had other personal pensions and both had workplace pensions which they were contributing 
to. They still had many years to accrue further benefits and all of the pension provisions they 
had could be accessed flexibly. Mr C could have taken tax free cash from the PPF at age 60 
and more from his other pensions if he needed to. He then could have used his guaranteed 
income and topped it up flexibly from his other pensions until he reached state retirement 
age. And by using his guaranteed income first, more money would be left in his flexible 
pensions.
If Mr C died before retirement, his family would have received a lump sum from the DB 
scheme as well as from his DC pension and his personal pension and Mr C also had very 
generous death in service benefits. I understand he also had term assurance of £150,000, 
so the mortgage would have been paid off as well. Whilst not guaranteed, his partner could 
have applied for a dependents pension and in the PPF there was a guaranteed childs 
pension paid until 18 and up to 23 if they were still in education. If Mr C died after retirement, 
again his partner might have received a dependents pension. But even if not, she would 
have had any sums left from Mr Cs personal and DC pension and she also had some of her 
own pension provisions.
Mr C was relatively young and in good health and the primary purpose of retirement planning 
was to ensure Mr Cs retirement needs would be met in the longterm. By the time he was 
planning to retire at age 60, is daughter would be 18. And as set out above, his existing 
pensions would provide good death benefits. 
By transferring his guaranteed benefits he was exposing all of his pension provisions to 
investment risk. Aware of this, Mr C even lowered his risk profile. If he had kept his DB 
benefits, he wouldnt have needed to do this. He could have taken a bit more risk if he 
wanted to in the knowledge that a good part of his pension was guaranteed. He would have 
had the best of both worlds: flexibility and guaranteed benefits.
There was simply no need in my view to take unnecessary risks with his pension.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Many of Mr Cs colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme there was a lot of 
negative communication around the PPF and speculation about the new scheme and I think 
its likely Mr C came to Lifestyle with the clear intention to transfer out. 
Mr C was worried about the security of his pension. From the fact find I take it that he had a 
fairly clear idea what he thought was best and how to achieve flexibility in retirement.
However, it was Lifestyles obligation to give Mr C an objective picture and recommend what
was in his best interest. Even if the scheme went into the PPF, Mr C could have retired early 
and maintained his guaranteed benefits. And he still could have had flexibility and sufficient 
death benefits for his dependents. I cant see that this was properly explained to him or that 
Lifestyle did enough to alleviate these concerns. Mr C was prepared to give up guaranteed 
benefits for more flexibility. But he could achieve what he wanted without taking more risk and I dont think this was explained to him. I cant see any persuasive reason why Mr C 
needed to give up his DB benefits.
And given that it was in his best interest to stay in the DB scheme, the possible loss of 
opportunity to transfer his pension in future shouldnt have been a significant concern to Mr 
C. 
summary
Its likely that Mr C was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing and he was very concerned about the possibility
of his pension falling to the PPF or future transfer values being lower. And I dont doubt that 
flexibility, control and different death benefits would have also sounded like attractive 
features. But Lifestyle wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in 
his best interest.
I appreciate Lifestyle included some risk warnings in their suitability report. However, this
doesnt replace suitable advice.
Mr C was able to retire early from the DB scheme and secure a guaranteed and index-linked 
income which would likely be higher than what he could achieve in his personal pension. I 
cant see any reasons that justified taking unnecessary risks with his pension. So Im 
not persuaded a transfer was in Mr Cs best interest here.
If Lifestyle had recommended him to keep his DB benefits and explained their reasons 
properly why Mr C would be better off staying in BSPS and that going into the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought, I think on balance Mr C would have followed their advice. 
My aim is to put Mr C as much as possible into the position he would be in now if he had 
been recommended not to transfer. And so I need to consider what would have happened 
next, on the balance of probabilities, if he had not transferred out of the BSPS in August.
In October Mr C was given the choice to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF or 
transfer to the BSPS2. Mr C didnt want to do either and was pressing for the transfer into his 
personal pension to happen. However, this has to be considered in the context that Mr C 
thought this was the best for him and the adviser had endorsed this view by recommending 
him to transfer and that there was a deadline to meet. 
I think matters would have been different if Lifestyle had advised him not to transfer in 
August. I think Mr C would have listened and when he received the Time to Choose 
paperwork in October he would have considered his options again before this background. 
Im not persuaded he would have insisted to proceed against professional advice. 
So I carefully considered what Lifestyle should have advised him to do in October when he 
was given the choice of either the PPF or BSPS2. On balance I think suitable advice would 
have been to go to the BSPS2.
He was still 13 years away from his desired retirement age of 60. So, I don't think that it 
would have been in his interest to lock in the reduction in benefits in the PPF when his 
plans might still change in future. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr C also would have retained 
at least the possibility to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed 
to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous 
under the BSPS2.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. For the 
reasons above I consider he would have remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently 
moved to the BSPS2. So calculations should be made on this assumption.
Lifestyle must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter
Lifestyle should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress.
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our service upon
completion of the calculation. 
I note Mr Cs representatives comments that the calculator is not appropriate as they feel 
actuarial input is needed due to Mr C having consolidated his BSPS pension into an existing 
plan. However, I disagree that the calculator cant be used in these circumstances. When 
comparing Mr Cs current pension value with his lost DB benefits, Lifestyle has to only use 
the part of Mr Cs Aviva pension which stems from the BSPS transfer value (plus the 
relevant returns on that value). And their calculations should make it clear how they stripped 
out his existing pension in this calculation. 
Mr C has not reached retirement age yet, so Lifestyle should use the retirement age 
assumption of 65 for the calculation as per the FCA guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Lifestyle should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr C accepts Lifestyles offer to calculate how much of their redress could be
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented,
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, Mr C may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Responses to my provisional decision
After my provisional decision Lifestyle indicated they wanted to calculate redress and asked 
for information from Mr Cs representatives to do so which was provided to them. 
Disappointingly they have not done this but instead continue to disagree with my decision. 
They provided detailed comments. Ive considered them in full, but wont comment on 
everything in detail, particularly as the majority of their comments have been raised before 
and have been considered previously. Ill focus on what I consider most relevant.
Mr Cs representatives pointed again to FCA guidance that says firms may require actuarial 
support when apportioning the defined contribution (DC) value attributable to the BSPS 
transfer value and wants me to recommend that Lifestyle seeks actuarial support in this 
case given that Mr C transferred into an existing pension plan.
My findings
Ive re-considered the available evidence and the parties additional comments, but my 
decision remains the same.
Lifestyle claims the decision has been written with the benefit of hindsight and that I 
relied on what if scenarios rather than Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the 
advice. 
However, I simply pointed out considerations that should have been included in the advice at 
the time. For example what other pension provisions Mr C and his partner had or likely 
would have in retirement given they were both still many years from retirement or what death 
benefits were already available to him. 
Lifestyle queries why I refer to the retirement age of 60 throughout my findings and 
refer to early retirement in the PPF but then direct them to calculate redress based 
on the BSPS2 and use the normal retirement age of 65. They also dont agree that 
the BSPS calculator should be used as this complaint isnt part of the BSPS redress 
scheme and using the FCA calculator is not mandatory.
Mr C said he wanted to retire at 60 and so Lifestyle ought to have compared his available 
benefits from the DB scheme and in the personal pension at that age to show him how 
achievable it was to meet this objective. And given that there wasnt yet enough information 
about the BSPS2 benefits, the adviser needed to also do a benefit comparison against the 
PPF. This is why I referred to age 60 and the PPF in my findings and, as I explained, I think 
Mr C could have met his objective of retiring early even if he ended up in the PPF without 
having to give up a guaranteed and likely higher income.
When it comes to the redress calculations, the rebuttable retirement age assumption with 
regards to when Mr C would have accessed his DB benefits if he had kept them is the 
normal retirement age of the scheme (DISP APP 4.3.16R) which is age 65 in this case. The 
FCA clarified in their guidance PS22/13 that retirement in this context essentially means the 
point at which he would have become dependent on his DB income. I acknowledge that Mr 
C had an aspiration to start taking benefits flexibly at age 60. However, he was still 13 years 
away from this age when he received the advice and plans about retirement can change 
over such a long period of time. Mr C is still quite a few years away from retirement age. And 
Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence that he would have started taking his DB benefits which involved taking a regular income from age 60. So I remain of the view that 
age 65 should be used for the calculation. 
I appreciate that some members of the scheme could have been better off in the PPF (for 
example if someone had concrete plans to retire early or wanted to take the highest 
available tax free cash lump sum). However, I already explained in my provisional decision 
why I think later advice in October 2017 ought to have been to switch to the BSPS2 in Mr Cs 
circumstances (mainly because of him being so far away from retirement age).
Lifestyle is correct that the BSPS redress calculator which was designed for the BSPS 
redress scheme is not a mandatory requirement for non-scheme cases. However, the FCA 
encourages firms to use the calculator for non-scheme cases as this ensures consistency 
and helps provide more certainty that the correct assumptions are used. It also is free for 
firms to use. And so I think its reasonable to require Lifestyle to use the calculator in this 
case. 
Lifestyle maintains that they shouldnt be held responsible for losses to Mr Cs 
pension which happened since he switched his pension to a different adviser in 2021. 
They noted that by switching Mr C incurred further initial advice charges, higher 
ongoing charges and the recommended investments by the new adviser had 
performed poorly. They feel the pension switch in 2021 was unsuitable as there was 
no evidence a new, more expensive plan was needed. Lifestyle says there was a 
break in the chain of causation when Mr C switched his pension. They say they 
shouldnt be judged for someones else advice. If it wasnt for the subsequent switch, 
Mr C wouldnt have been worse off in retirement.
DISP APP 4.4.2 R uses the current value of the DC pension arrangement as the comparator 
(adjusted only for benefits already paid to the consumer and SERPS adjustments where 
applicable). And DC pension is defined in DISP APP 4.1.1 R as (with my emphasis):
DC pension arrangement means any pension arrangement holding the value of 
the consumers pension benefits which originated from the non-compliant pension transfer 
advice, including where the arrangement has been subsequently changed to a new 
arrangement;
So the rule does not limit the losses to the point where the pension is moved elsewhere.
I can assure Lifestyle that Ive only considered their own advice to Mr C. If they had given 
suitable advice, Mr C would have, more likely than not, ended up in the BSPS2 and his 
benefits would not have been exposed to any investment risk at all. By moving to a personal 
pension arrangement it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr C might change advisers and/or 
investments in future. Lifestyle couldnt reasonably expect that Mr C would remain invested 
in the funds they initially recommended until retirement or that he would never change 
advisers. And this comes with the risk of further unsuitable advice which Lifestyle exposed 
him to when they recommended him to transfer away from a secure DB scheme. If Mr C had 
remained in the DB scheme he would not have been exposed to any advice and product 
charges or investment losses. 
Its possible that Mr Cs new adviser gave him unsuitable advice. However, Im deciding the 
complaint against Lifestyle and I think without their unsuitable advice he wouldnt be in the 
position he is in now. In the circumstances of the complaint I consider its fair and reasonable 
to hold Lifestyle responsible for all of the losses Mr C might have incurred. And this is also in 
line with the regulators rules as set out above. Lifestyle asked us to provide the advice documentation from 2021 for their insurers. 
However, this isnt information we hold and as I dont consider this information is relevant for 
my decision I see no reason to request this on their behalf.
Mr Cs representatives would like Lifestyle to use an actuary for the calculations.
As I said above, I think using the FCA BSPS calculator is reasonable in this case. However, I 
acknowledge that preliminary calculations will be needed to obtain the DC value which 
relates only to the BSPS transfer and which then needs to be put into the calculator. This 
often is simply a percentage split. However, possible further contributions to the pension and 
withdrawals will also have to be considered and depending on the circumstances of the 
individual this can include different levels of complexity. FCA guidance does stipulate that 
firms should consider using an actuary or an approach approved by an actuary in these 
circumstances.
The calculations need to be provided to this service and Mr Cs representatives in clear and 
detailed format. So if the calculations arent straight forward and Lifestyle has trouble doing 
the relevant calculations or their approach isnt clear, they need to use actuarial support. And 
in these circumstances costs for this cant be charged to Mr C or deducted from any redress.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lifestyle (Glamorgan) 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in my provisional decision under 
putting things right (repeated above), up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also recommend 
that Lifestyle (Glamorgan) Limited pays Mr C the balance. 
If Mr C accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lifestyle 
(Glamorgan) Limited. My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can 
accept a final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman