DRN-2245044
The complaint
Mr B complains about how long Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard took to 
update his credit file following a payment.
What happened
Mr B says in February 2020 he paid over half of the balance on his Barclaycard credit card 
account, but Barclaycard took too long to update his credit file. He says that has affected his 
mortgage application and says other lenders update the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
far quicker. Mr B says Barclaycard is acting unfairly and would like it to update the CRAs far 
quicker than it is doing so.
Barclaycard doesnt accept making a mistake and has explained the timescales it uses for 
updating the CRAs. It says the payment Mr B made was reflected in his March 2020 
statement and it updated the CRAs in April 2020.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it wasnt our role to tell a business what its timescales should be about these types 
of issues as we are not Barclaycards regulator. And didnt think Barclaycard had acted 
unfairly by reporting the information to the CRAs in April 2020 following a payment on the 
March 2020 statement.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says it took two months to update the CRAs which cant 
be fair or acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I also make clear to Mr B that we are not 
Barclaycards regulator. So, its not our role to tell it how it runs its business or that it ought to 
change the way in which it reports information to the CRAs.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and can see that although Mr B made the payments 
in February 2020 they were made after the due date for the payments that month. And that 
they were reflected in the March 2020 account statement. I can see that Barclaycard 
reported the position to the CRAs in April 2020 the following month after the payments were 
recorded on the statement. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake by recording the 
payments on the March statement as they were made after the due date for February 2020. 
And I also dont think Barclaycard waited for an unreasonable period by updating the CRAs 
the following month.
I appreciate that Mr B says other lenders update the CRAs far quicker. But that is not 
something I can fairly comment on and can only look at this complaint and if Barclaycard 
acted unfairly which I find it did not. I also appreciate Mr B says the delay affected his 
mortgage application. I dont think Mr B has given us a copy of his credit report and so I dont 
know what information is recorded on it. I think a lender looks at a number of reasons before 
deciding to lend in any event. But for the reasons I have explained I dont think Barclaycard 
has acted unreasonably or delayed the reporting of information to the CRAs.
Overall, I find Barclaycard has acted fairly and so I cant order it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman