DRN-4032130
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) changed his address without his 
authority. 
What happened
Mr J says that a credit card statement and an annual credit card statement was sent to his 
daughters address, which was not a secure address. Mr J made a complaint to Co-op and 
when they hadnt responded he brought his complaint to our service.
Co-op offered Mr J £200 compensation for the error. They told us there was an error made 
by them when his daughter changed her address and the staff member had not followed 
their process correctly, which resulted in Mr Js address on his credit card and his other 
accounts being changed to his daughters new address. They told us that his credit card 
address was updated on the system on 28 October 2022, when he rang them, but only his 
credit card account address was changed then and not his other accounts, which were 
changed when Mr J rang them back at a later date to check on his complaint. 
Our investigator said he felt the £200 compensation was fair as this would have caused Mr J 
distress and inconvenience, but he said theres no evidence of any material impact and Co-
op have resolved the initial error to prevent this issue from re-occurring. He said Co-op 
confirmed that their Data Protection Officer has been made aware of the error and its been 
logged internally.
Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He felt the compensation offered was 
too low as he said his details were sent out twice to a different address than his. He said this 
caused him a lot of stress and he thought his identity had been stolen. Mr J also commented 
on Co-ops handling of his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain to Mr J that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Co-op have investigated his 
complaint, such as how long they take to issue a response does not come under my powers 
to consider. But Co-op have told our service that they had previously compensated Mr J £75 
for closing his original complaint down in error (and failing to call him back).
I can sympathise with the situation that Mr J found himself in here. His address had been 
changed on his customer profile by error, and he only found this out by chance due to the 
address being changed to his daughters new address which he says this wasnt a secure 
address. So I dont doubt that Mr J would be distressed by this. He was also inconvenienced 
by having to contact Co-op to change the address back to his own address.
Mr J rang Co-op after his October 2022 credit card statement had been sent to his 
daughters address. Ive listened to this call and Im satisfied that Co-op did change his 
address on his credit card account that day. But I also understand that Mr Js annual credit 
card statement got posted to his daughters address also. While this may appear to Mr J that 
they didnt change his address on his credit card account correctly on 28 October 2022, Im 
not persuaded by this, and Ill explain why.
Mr Js annual credit card statement covers the period from 22 October 2021-23 October 
2022. So while this correspondence does not show a date it was sent, on the balance of 
probabilities, I would expect this to be sent from 24 October 2022. So Im persuaded what 
happened here is this was sent to the incorrect address Co-op had on file at the time  and 
before Mr J contacted Co-op to let them know his address was incorrect. But due to the time 
the postal system took to deliver the annual credit card statement then this would have 
arrived after Mr J had rang Co-op to let them know about his correct address. Once this was 
posted to the address, it would be out of Co-ops control, so they wouldnt have been able to 
change the destination of this document once it was sent. 
But while they changed his address on his credit card on 28 October 2022, they hadnt 
changed the address on the other accounts Mr J had within the wider Co-op group, which 
meant he had to ring them back again. Co-op have told us that the statements for the other 
accounts are sent online so these werent physically sent out in the post. There were two 
items sent out in the post and these related to his Co-op credit card.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr J has about the impact this error had on him. He 
feels the £200 is too low based on the stress he had, and he was worried he was a victim of 
identity theft. Thankfully it appears that he wasnt a victim of identity theft and that it was 
human error which resulted in his address being changed. But this still caused him distress 
and inconvenience when post was sent to an address which wasnt his and he said his 
daughter had opened the post. Co-op have notified their Data Protection Officer about this, 
which is what I would expect them to do here. But the £200 is in line with what our service 
would have awarded if they did not uphold his complaint. So it follows Co-op should pay Mr J 
£200 for distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Co-op pay Mr J £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr J £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman