DRN-1464407
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
 What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy was taken out to cover 
their mortgage and was in Mrs Ts name only. It provided her with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
Nationwide told them they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
Mrs M had more than twice her annual salary in savings which could have been used 
to pay the mortgage if she couldn't work.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I dont think from what Nationwide has told us that it recommended the PPI. As Nationwide 
didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for Mr and Mrs T.
So the key question I need to consider is did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs T information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make 
an informed choice about the insurance they were buying?
And, if there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the 
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs T say they thought they had to have the PPI for their mortgage application to be 
successful. And I accept that's possible. But this all happened some time ago and I can't be 
certain exactly what was discussed during their meeting. So I've placed reliance on the 
paperwork that was completed at the time. The mortgage application included a separate 
section about PPI and Mr and Mrs T signed - separate from the main mortgage application - 
to say that, "we would like to protect our mortgage payments against accident, sickness 
and/or unemployment". I think this shows Mr and Mrs T were given a choice about whether to take the PPI. Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs T aware that PPI was optional 
and they chose to take it out.
Its possible the information the Society gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy if 
they had received better information. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mrs T's name only and she was eligible for the policy 
given her circumstances and the terms and conditions. 
 
Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely she needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
 
Mrs T says she would have received six months full pay if she couldn't work. She told 
the bank she couldn't remember the value of her savings at the time although, after 
our adjudicator sent their view, she recalled she had as much as two years worth of 
salary in savings. But the PPI was intended to be in place for the lifetime of the 
mortgage and it's possible any savings would have been earmarked for something 
else. Their mortgage was a major long term financial commitment and their home 
was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. They chose to take out cover for 
Mrs T so I think they probably wanted to make sure their mortgage payments would 
be covered if she couldnt work, or became unemployed, particularly as Mr T was in a 
position where he was unable to work. The policy wouldve covered Mrs T for up to 
24 months, so wouldve been a useful benefit in addition to her existing 
arrangements.
 
The first 12 months of the policy were free, but I can see that the cost after that - 
£29.93 each month - was set out in the mortgage offer. So I think Mr and Mrs T were 
made aware of the cost before they agreed to purchase it.
 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs T wouldve made a different decision 
about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall I think 
they would have still taken out the policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman