DRN-2919100
The complaint
Mr H complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited ended.
 
What happened
In July 2017 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan.
When the car was handed back in October 2020, it was inspected for damage and 
LeasePlan asked Mr H to pay charges.
Mr H disputed the charges. He said hed been told that everything was okay with the car and 
that any damage was fair wear and tear for a 3-year-old car.
In response, LeasePlan apologised if the inspection agent had made misleading comments 
at the inspection and reduced the charges by £150 as a gesture of goodwill. It said, 
however, that the damage identified had been charged correctly.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the charges had been applied fairly. 
She felt that the charge to the LHF door was excessive and secured LeasePlans agreement 
to reduce this to £40.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he hadnt been given the opportunity to look round the car with 
the inspector and raise any objections. He also said hed been told by the inspector that the 
damage was within fair wear and tear, which led him to believe that no charges would be 
raised. Mr H didnt think it was fair that hed been told one thing and had then received  
conflicting information in the report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr H must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The report identifies scratches on 
several different areas of the car. Looking at the photos and having regard to the relevant 
guidelines, Im satisfied that the damage is outside of acceptable wear and tear and that the 
charges have been applied fairly.
I note that LeasePlan has agreed to reduce the charge for the scratch on the LHF door to 
£40. I think this is fair.
I appreciate that Mr H doesnt think its fair that hes been charged for damage when he had 
been told that the cars condition was ok. There are no notes of the discussions between Mr 
H and the inspector so I cant be certain of exactly what was said.
If Mr H was left with the impression that he wouldnt be charged for damage, then I 
understand why hes frustrated now. But without evidence of what was said, there isnt 
enough for me to say that the charges should be waived. Moreover, its clear from the 
inspection report and the photos that the damage does exceed fair wear and tear, so Im 
unable to say that the charges have been applied unfairly.
Ive taken account of what Mr H has said about not being given the opportunity to look 
around the car with the inspector. LeasePlan has said that it advises customers to be 
present at the inspection and to walk around with the inspection so they can be made aware 
of potential damage. In this case, based on what Ive seen, Mr H wasnt present at the 
inspection and his wife chose to stay inside whilst the inspector looked around. Theres 
nothing to suggest that either Mr H or his wife were prevented from being present at the 
inspection. Ive looked at the extract from the LeasePlan website which was provided by Mr 
H and this says its important to engage in the inspection process. Even if Mr Hs wife was 
told that she didnt need to do anything, I still think it was open to her  and advisable 
according to the information on the website  to be present at the inspection.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the charges for damage have been faulty 
applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman