DRN-4102169
The complaint
Miss B complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a series of payments she made to a 
scammer. 
What happened
Miss B was contacted by who she thought was Her Majestys Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) but was actually a scammer who had managed to spoof the Ministry of Justices 
phone number. They threatened her with prison if she did not pay taxes which they said she 
owed. She was also e-mailed correspondence which matched the HMRC address and the 
information she had been given.
They instructed Miss B to open a Revolut account, which she did. She proceeded to deposit 
funds and then transfer the following to the scammers:
1 December 2022 £1,531
1 December 2022 £995
1 December 2022 £470
Miss B says that soon after she made the final payment, she realised this was a scam. She 
felt the process to raise a scam complaint with Revolut took too long and this impacted their 
ability to recover her funds, of which they were only able to recover £13.27. Revolut issued a 
final response letter in which they explained that they had acted on Miss Bs instruction and 
provided some warnings throughout the payment process. So, they did not agree they were 
at fault for processing the transactions. 
Miss B referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it and explained 
that Revolut is not signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, so we 
can only look at whether they should have intervened prior to the payments being made. As 
there was no normal account history to compare the scam payments to, which werent of a 
high value, they did not think Revolut needed to intervene prior to the payments being made. 
So, they didnt agree theyd made an error.
Miss B disagreed with this. She felt Revolut had not followed the correct protocol when 
opening her account as she was able to do so very quickly. She was also unhappy that 
Revolut states international transfers can take one to three days, however hers was 
processed almost instantly. And she reiterated that it took too long for her to be able to 
report the scam to Revolut once she was aware of it. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the Investigator has pointed out, Revolut has not signed up to the CRM code, which is a 
voluntary scheme that provides increased protection for victims of these types of scams. 
However, Revolut still has a basic duty of care for its customers. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss B authorised the payments as she believed they were going 
to a government body. So, while I recognise that Miss B didnt intend the money to go to 
scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow Miss Bs 
instruction and process the payments. Because of this, Miss B is not automatically entitled to 
a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Miss Bs account safe.
Ive firstly focused on the account opening, as Miss B feels Revolut opened it too quickly 
without carrying out the proper checks. I appreciate Miss B has questioned whether Revolut 
asked for her correct identification to open the account, but I cant see that it has made an 
error by carrying out her request. It has correctly opened the account in Miss Bs name. And 
on balance, I cant agree it has made an error by doing so promptly and allowing her to 
make transactions right away. It is not unusual for an account to be used soon after being 
opened so I dont consider this to be suspicious.  
Ive gone on to consider whether the transactions were unusual or suspicious. There was no 
account activity prior to the transactions in question, so it is difficult for me to agree that 
Revolut could identify the transactions as out of character for Miss B. Looking at the 
transactions, they are not particularly high value and though they were carried out relatively 
close to each other, this alone is not enough for me to agree that Revolut should have 
intervened before processing them. So, I dont think they have missed an opportunity to 
reveal the scam.
Miss B has said that Revoluts timescales fore international payments is 1-3 days, so she is 
unhappy that the international transfers happened almost immediately. It appears that the 
beneficiary payment money provider for these transactions was also Revolut, so it is 
understandable that these transactions therefore were processed quickly. While I 
understand Miss Bs frustration, I cant agree that Revolut processing a payment promptly is 
unreasonable.Miss B has also said that it took too long for her to be able to report the scam to Revolut. I 
can see that she started a chat with Revolut around half an hour after the last payment. A 
member of staff responded just three minutes later and began asking questions about the 
transactions. The conversation was then passed to a specialised team member within fifteen 
minutes of the start of the conversation who asked for a detailed account of what had 
happened, which is what I would have expected them to do. With this in mind, I think Revolut 
was able to take on Miss Bs complaint quickly and work out the best way to assist her. 
Unfortunately, only £13.27 remained when they attempted to recover the funds from the 
beneficiary accounts. It is not unusual for a scammer to move funds out of their account very 
quickly in these situations. But I think Revolut acted quickly to attempt to recover funds in 
this case.
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I dont think Revolut could 
reasonably have done more in the circumstances, and I dont direct them to take any further 
action to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman