DRN-3472629
The complaint
Mrs N complains that she was charged £821 by Hastings Insurance Services Limited for hire 
costs following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs N was involved in an accident. Her brother reported this to Hastings, and it said the 
claim would be non-fault and the cost of car hire would be billed to the other drivers insurer. 
After a month, the hire company told Mrs N that she would have to pay the hire costs. Money 
was taken from Mrs Ns account but later returned. And then some months later the hire 
company invoiced Mrs N again and took money from her account. Mrs N said this had 
affected her finances and caused her a lot of stress. Hastings said responsibility for any 
mistakes lay with the hire company.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Hastings 
was responsible for the complaint as it had instructed the hire company. She also thought it 
was responsible for the hire costs as it had told Mrs N numerous times that it would cover 
these. She thought Mrs N wouldnt have continued with the hire if she had been given 
correct information. So she thought Hastings should refund Mrs N £821 and pay her £150 
compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Hastings replied that it thought the complaint should be against the hire company and its 
communication about the return of the hire car. This was because it said Mrs N had a 
separate contract with the hire company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings handled Mrs Ns claim on behalf of the insurer. But I havent considered that here 
as its a separate business to Hastings. What Ive considered here is Hastings level of 
service in administering Mrs Ns policy. This includes how it communicated with Mrs N. 
Hastings said this complaint shouldnt be against it, but against the hire car provider. It said 
that Mrs N had a separate contract with it, and it acted as an accident management 
company (AMC). But I dont agree that is fair or reasonable. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Where a drivers been involved in an accident which wasn't their fault, AMCs may offer to 
arrange repairs and/or provide temporary replacement cars. But AMCs are independent from 
insurers, they are entirely separate businesses. 
So when an AMC is involved the consumer isnt claiming from their own insurance policy 
and the AMC isnt acting as agents for the insurer. Instead the consumer enters into an 
agreement with the AMC that allows it to seek to recover its costs from the third partys 
insurer. 
In the notification call, Hastings told Mrs Ns brother that the hire company would provide a 
replacement car for the duration of the claim. Hastings wrote to Mrs N and told her that the 
hire company managed its replacement vehicles and would be in touch. 
I can see that Mrs Ns policy doesnt provide a courtesy car in the case of total loss. But I 
cant see that Hastings explained the basis of how the hire car would be provided.
The accident had been a multiple car shunt and Hastings repeatedly told Mrs N that it would 
claim from the rear vehicle that had caused this. It said that if the car in front made a claim 
against Mrs N, then it would redirect it. Hastings emphasised that the vehicle at the rear 
would cover the entirety of the claim costs. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs N, when she reported the claim, wasnt referred to an AMC by 
Hastings. Hastings handled the claim against her policy on behalf of the insurer and I think 
led Mrs N to believe that it would recover the hire costs. 
Also, looking at Hastings notes, when the claim was first reported Mrs Ns car was deemed 
to be a total loss and Hastings instructed the hire company to provide hire only and no other 
services. So Im satisfied that as the hire company was instructed by Hastings, this 
complaint should be against it.  
There was a delay in the claim being progressed as Mrs N didnt respond to texts asking for 
her to contact a salvage company to arrange collection of her car for valuation. Then the 
family was self-isolating due to the pandemic and Hastings closed the claim. The hire 
company then took money from Mrs Ns account. Mrs Ns brother called Hastings, and it was 
agreed for the claim to be put on hold and the hire car would be collected. The money was 
returned.
Two weeks later, the hire company contacted Mrs N to arrange collection. But this wasnt 
done. I cant see a reason why. The company called Mrs N and said she would be liable for 
the hire costs. 
Liability was then clarified with the other parties involved as the accident had involved at 
least three cars in a shunt. Hastings then reopened the claim and asked the hire company to 
provide a hire car for Mrs N until the claim was settled. This was confirmed to Mrs N by 
email.
But the hire company was concerned that it wouldnt be able to recoup its costs from the 
other insurer. And it asked Hastings to agree to authorise cover or it would charge Mrs N. I 
cant see whether Hastings agreed to do this or not. Liability was accepted by the other 
insurer, but a week later the £821 hire cost was again debited from Mrs Ns account. 
The claim was later settled as fault and Hastings sent Mrs N an email to confirm this. But I 
cant see any explanation of the reason for this change in Hastings notes. 
So I think Hastings made it clear at the outset to Mrs N that the claim was non-fault and it 
would recover the hire costs. I think the communication between Hastings and the hire 
company was poor and there were missed opportunities for ending the hire earlier. I cant 
see that Hastings ever explained to Mrs N that she may be liable for the hire costs. I cant 
see that it responded to the hire companys request to cover these. I think that if Hastings 
had given Mrs N better information about the hire, and her potential liability, then she 
wouldnt have continued with it. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Hastings has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
And so I think Hastings should reimburse the £821 hire cost to Mrs N. And, as Mrs N has 
been without her money for some time, I think it should add interest to this amount. This is in 
addition to the Investigators recommended redress and Ive given Hastings time to comment 
on this. Mrs N told Hastings multiple times that the debit of the money had caused her financial 
hardship because of her personal circumstances. I think Hastings should compensate Mrs N 
for this impact and for the trouble and upset caused by its poor communication. The 
Investigator recommended that Hastings should pay Mrs N £150 compensation. I think thats 
fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mrs N £821 debited from her account by the hire company, adding interest to 
this amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date the money was taken to the date of 
settlement.
2. Pay Mrs N £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Hastings to take off tax from this interest. Hastings must 
give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman