DRN-2845137
The complaint
Mr W complains about the information that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited
(Prudential) gave him when he set up his Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution
(TAVC) plan. He says that if hed been given clear and full information, he wouldve
purchased added years within the Teachers Pension Scheme instead of setting up his
TAVC plan.
What happened
Mr W took advice from one of Prudentials advisers in 1994 and joined the TAVC. He was 47
and planned to retire at 60, he already had around 20 years of pensionable service as a
teacher. Mr W continued to teach until he retired shortly before he was 60. He began by
making contributions of 9% of his salary to the TAVC and I understand these contributions
continued at the same rate up to his retirement.
Mr W complained to Prudential in 2001 but Prudential didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in
summary, that its representative recalled meeting with him and remembered that detailed
information would have been provided including information about added years although
there was no documentation still available that recorded the advice. Mr W was provided with
the details of the complaints handling bodies he could refer his complaint to (this was before
this service was created). I understand that he didnt pursue the complaint further at that
time.
Mr W made this complaint in 2019. Prudential reconsidered the complaint but didnt uphold
it. So, Mr W referred the complaint to this service.
Prudential hasnt objected to this service considering the merits of the complaint despite the
passage of time and the earlier complaint.
An investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt think that it should be upheld. He
said, in summary:
The adviser believed they would have given Mr W what information they could about 
the additional years, so that he could seek advice elsewhere about this.
Although Mr W didnt remember this and doesnt recall that it happened, there isnt 
sufficient evidence to prove whether this information was provided or not.
The advice to recommend membership of the Teachers AVC was not inappropriate. 
It provided a flexible way of improving Mr Ws pension over the course of his 
remaining career.
Although purchasing additional years may have had the potential to provide greater 
benefits, this could also have seemed significantly more expensive to achieve.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary:
He would have been better off with added years.
He had a clear recollection that there was no reference to the option of added years 
in his meetings.
From 1995 Prudential changed its procedure so that all teachers joining TAVC had to 
sign a form to confirm they had been made aware of the added years options.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a decision. I
provisionally decided that I disagreed with the investigator and said that I thought the
complaint should be upheld. I said:
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made a decision based
on what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available. Prudentials
adviser couldnt have advised Mr W on the added years option. But the adviser did have a
responsibility to make him aware that added years was an alternative option and a duty to
refer him to the scheme booklet or the scheme to obtain further information about other
available options.
Prudential has said that the point of sale documents are no longer available. I note that
these were not available when Mr W first complained in 2001, just six or seven years after
the advice. I cant know what he and the adviser discussed at the time and the recollections
of the adviser and Mr W differ. The adviser says the options would have been discussed as
a matter of routine, Mr W says that they were not. He makes the point that this was a one-off
event for him, but the adviser would have had many similar meetings and so he says his
recollection is more reliable.
Based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied, on balance, that Mr Ws attention was
sufficiently drawn to the other available options when he met with the adviser. I say this
because I think there are strong grounds to conclude that if he had been referred to the
option of added years, that is the option he would have chosen. Mr W was 47 and probably
had a reasonably clear view about his future career. The flexibility the TAVC provided over
added years may not have seemed so attractive to him. And given his age, his accrued
service and the level of contribution he was prepared to commit to, he had the possibility of
buying added years which would have achieved, or been close to achieving, the maximum
benefits from the Teachers Pension Scheme, 40 years service.
I think its particularly significant in this case that Mr W decided to, and was able to, make the
maximum contribution to the TAVC of 9% of his salary. If he had investigated the option of
added years, I think he would have discovered that this level of contribution, if paid over the
remaining years of his career to his intended retirement would have been enough to
maximise, or almost maximise, his Teachers pension. I think this would have appeared to
be a very attractive option to someone who had the capacity to make contributions ongoing
at this level.
The cost of added years of service in the Teachers Pension Scheme was determined by the
Government Actuary. Conservative assumptions of likely future investment performance
were used, and this made added years appear to be expensive. This was because the cost
of added years was intended to be met by member contributions alone, rather than the
employer having to pick up any shortfall. If Mr W had opted to pay for added years, he
wouldve had to give up a set percentage of his salary for a set term, often up to retirement.
Partial years couldnt be purchased. Also, the amount he paid wouldve increased over time,
in line with his salary increases.
As Ive said, Mr W was 47 at the time of the advice and so had almost 13 years to his
intended retirement at 60. He already had around 20 years of service and so to reach the
maximum pensionable service of 40 years he would need to buy 6 or 7 added years. My
understanding is that given his age buying 6 added years would have cost just over 9% ofhis future salary (120/13). So, he could have bought 6 added years for just a little more than
he contributed to the TAVC.
I think Mr W could have maximised his occupational pension in an affordable way by
purchasing added years. I think that is what he would most probably have done if his
attention had been correctly drawn to that option, given his particular circumstances.
I accept that added years are not always a natural choice for everyone, added years could
have appeared expensive and expectations of future growth in 1994 would have been much
higher than now. On the other hand, Mr W had to pay fees to be part of the TAVC, whereas
he wouldnt if he purchased added years within his existing Teachers Pension Scheme. So,
the savings he made here, couldve gone directly towards his added years contributions. If
Mr W had purchased added years, rather than joining the TAVC, providing he made all the
contributions, he wouldve had a guaranteed benefit at the end of it, rather than being reliant
on investment performance.
Without wishing to repeat myself, I think that Mr Ws age and his anticipation of the service
he would complete to retirement (at 60) coupled with his ability to give up 9% of his salary to
secure his pension, are significant factors which would have led him to choose added years
over the TAVC.
Taking all of this into account, I think that if Prudential had provided him with clearer
information, Mr W wouldve purchased added years instead of joining the TAVC. So, I think
that Mr W has lost out because of what Prudential probably did wrong.
I went on to set out how redress should be calculated.
Prudential didnt accept that provisional decision. It submitted a detailed response. In 
summary it said;
My decision was different to many previous decisions from this service and the 
Pensions Ombudsman on similar issues. In addition to the flexibility and suitability 
concerns, previous decisions have cited affordability as a major factor and have 
concluded that Added Years were prohibitively expensive, with age and salary key 
components of that cost, yet this provisional decision seems to take the opposite 
view.
The TAVC is an unregulated product, and as such there is no regulatory obligation to 
complete a fact find, which would record any advice given. The standards in place at 
that time was that it was not a requirement to record that all options had been 
brought to the attention of the customer.
Prudential were appointed in 1989 to provide teachers with an option to 'top up' their 
pension fund. This is the 'Additional Voluntary Contribution'. It had to make teachers 
aware that there were other 'top up' options available. In addition, all the literature it 
used in schools was agreed with the employer. Its representatives operated under 
strict internal guidelines for which they received full and thorough training. These 
guidelines meant our representatives had to explain the TAVC option in detail and to 
make a general reference to the member's other options. Prudential was not allowed 
to advise on the Added Years option.
There are a number of reasons why Mr W may not have opted for buying added 
years. All of these factors need to be assessed to determine whether or not the 
added years option was the most appropriate.
In this case there was an identified life cover shortfall, which was addressed by the 
TAVC proposal. Life cover wasnt a feature of the added years option.It is highly subjective to suggest that Mr Ws recollection of a conversation that 
occurred 27 years ago can be relied upon. Certainly, there is nothing to indicate his 
recollections carry more weight than our assertion that a fully trained advisor, 
working within agreed and controlled procedures, would have followed those 
procedures. The proposal clearly includes a question regarding PAY. It is not 
conceivable that this question was not drawn to Mr Ws attention.
7(b) of the declaration of the proposal form details that a customer should seek 
independent financial advice about whether contributing was in their best interests. 
The customer, in signing the proposal, accepts and takes responsibility for this 
recommendation.
Mr W was asked to consider some of the points Prudential had made. He responded and
said, in summary:
The proposal form hadnt been available in 2001 when he made his original 
complaint. He was surprised that it was available now.
He didnt complete this form. It is not in his handwriting, other than his signature and 
the date below the declaration. It was completed by the Prudential representative. 
And, I never read the form at the time, but she must have asked me about each 
section and filled in the form as she went along.
The declaration only asked him to confirm the entries that the representative had 
made in sections 3 and 6. It did not ask him to confirm anything from Section 2 
(where added years were referred to).
If he had been asked whether he was making any additional pensions contributions 
currently he would simply have answered "No". Even if he had been asked more 
specifically about whether he was contributing to Past Added Years, he would have 
answered "No" and that cannot be considered as giving clear information about Past 
Added Years as an alternative to AVCs.
He did choose to pay for the Death in Service Scheme only after he was told about it 
by the representative.
I reconsidered the evidence and made a second provisional decision. I said that having 
reconsidered all of the evidence, Im no longer minded to uphold this complaint.
My findings in my second provisional decision were as follows:
All Prudentials representative had to do was make Mr W aware that added years was an
alternative option. Id said that I wasnt satisfied, on balance, that Mr Ws attention was
sufficiently drawn to the other available options when he met with the adviser. But, given the
additional evidence thats now been provided, I dont believe this conclusion is still
sustainable.
Prudential has now been able to provide a copy of the original proposal completed in 1994.
Its unfortunate that its only been produced now when it was apparently not available in
2001 when the original complaint was made, or at any time before I made my provisional
decision. But I accept Prudentials explanation that GDPR did lead to cleansing of its data
and to its locating files that had previously been considered lost. And there seems to be no
question that the document provided now is a genuine record of the proposal that followed
Mr Ws meeting with the adviser in 1994. I dont doubt that Prudential wouldve produced the
document sooner, and in 2001, if it had been more easily available as I do think it tends to
support its position in this complaint.The proposal includes a question about whether the proposer is contributing to past added
years. It requires a tick to give an affirmative answer, but it is left blank. Mr W says the
proposal form was completed largely by the representative. But its clear that he signed it.
Although the declaration he actually signed doesnt ask him to confirm the section of the
form that references past added years, I think his signature should be considered as
evidence that he did read, or was made aware of, the contents of the form.
Mr W says, I never read the form at the time, but she must have asked me about each
section and filled in the form as she went along.
I think the proposal form must be considered as evidence that the representative most likely
did ask Mr W about each section of the form as he says, and this would include asking him
about added years. I cant know exactly what was or was not said about added years at the
time, but Im no longer satisfied that it would be safe for me to conclude that there was no
discussion about it. Im not sure what reliance I can place on Mr Ws recollection now, 27
years later, that he didnt read all of the proposal form. I also think this statement tends to
undermine his evidence on his recollection that added years werent discussed, which was
critical to my provisional findings. I dont question Mr Ws integrity, and his recollection in this
complaint was consistent with his recollection when the complaint was first made in 2001.
But he has signed the form, and I think its more likely that he read it. The proposal
references added years and I restate that all Prudentials representative had to do was to
make Mr W aware that added years was an alternative option.
In the light of this recently disclosed contemporaneous documentary evidence, Im no longer
satisfied that Mr W wasnt made aware of the option of added years. Im no longer satisfied
that Mr W couldnt have known about added years by other means, that he wasnt told about
added years by Prudentials representative in 1994, and that he would have selected added
years instead of the TAVC. I would need to be satisfied of all three of these key elements in
order to uphold the complaint.
I do appreciate that this change of stance will disappoint Mr W, but I must remain impartial
and make an evidence-based decision. Where new evidence is provided, I must consider it.
Prudential accepted the second provisional decision.
Mr W, understandably, didnt. He made a detailed response which Ive considered. He said, 
in summary:
An unanswered question about past added years couldnt be considered as evidence 
that he was properly made aware or what past added years were. He points to a 
number of decisions from the Pensions Ombudsman which conclude that an 
unanswered question wasnt accepted as evidence that information was given about 
this option.
Added years wouldnt have been prohibitively expensive.
Although there was no requirement that Prudential record that the option had been 
brought to his attention, it had undertaken to make clients aware of the past added 
years option.
He was told nothing about past added years.
Prudential changed its booklet in January 2005.The pensions Ombudsman has accepted in its decisions that this is evidence that its literature before that date was 
defective.
Although Prudential say its subjective to rely on the recollection of a conversation 27 
years ago, he did complain in 2001.
He trusted the advice process and didnt take independent financial advice, but that 
doesnt excuse Prudential from its responsibility to give sound advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the case given the responses received. Ive decided not to change the 
conclusions I reached in my second provisional decision. I dont uphold this complaint. Im 
sorry for any false hope that Ive given Mr W, but I must make a balanced and evidence-
based decision.
All Prudentials representative had to do was make Mr W aware that added years was an
alternative option. Prudential has been able to provide a copy of the original proposal form. 
Whilst an unanswered question may not in itself evidence any detailed discussion took place 
about past added years, the evidence of the representative has always been that such a 
discussion did take place. The form may have prompted that discussion. Mr W says the
proposal form was completed by the representative and I think that is most likely correct.  
But he did sign it and I think his signature should be considered as evidence that he did 
read, or was made aware of, the contents of the form.
Mr W also said that he must have been asked about each section of the form. I think that if 
he was asked about past added years but knew nothing about them, its likely in a normal 
interaction that some information would naturally have been provided. And the 
representative insists that past added years would have been discussed. Mr W knew that in 
2001 when he first complained. He was given referral rights back then to take the complaint 
further but chose not to do that at the time, we are now considering the complaint 20 years 
later.
As I said, I cant know exactly what was or was not said about added years at the time and 
Im being asked to make a determination 27 years after the event. Its not just the late 
disclosure of the proposal form that causes me to question my earlier conclusions, Mr Ws 
recollection that he didnt read all of the proposal form tends to undermine his own evidence 
and brings into question the weight I can attach to his recollection that added years werent 
discussed.
Having reconsidered the entirety of the evidence Im no longer satisfied that Mr W wasnt 
made aware of the option of added years. Im no longer satisfied that Mr W couldnt have 
known about added years by other means, that he wasnt told about added years by 
Prudentials representative in 1994, and that he would have selected added years instead of 
the TAVC. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman