DRN-4133787
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK Plc allowed him to deposit a cheque which was payable 
to him and his ex-partner into an account in Mr Zs sole name and wouldnt allow him to 
collect the proceeds of the cheque. Mr Z is also unhappy that his account was blocked after 
he deposited another cheque and took too long to allow him access to his funds.
What happened
Mr Z opened a basic bank account with Santander.
 
Mr Z deposited two cheques into the account. In March 2022, he deposited a cheque for just 
over £11,000, which I will refer to as cheque A. This cheque was made out in his name and 
his ex-partners name, who I will refer to as Miss K, and represented the closing balance of a 
joint account held in their names with a different bank.
In May 2022, Mr Z deposited another cheque into his account for just under £500. I will refer 
to this as cheque B. This cheque was made out in his sole name.
Following this Santander blocked Mr Zs account and asked him to provide it with information 
about his entitlement to the two cheques. Mr Z provided Santander with a copy of a bank 
statement for the account hed held with Miss K at another bank. This showed that a cheque 
had been issued for the closing balance. Santander looked at the information but didnt think 
it was enough to show Mr Z was entitled to the money, so on 16 May 2022, it reached out to 
the bank that had issued the cheques. The other bank confirmed it had issued both cheques 
that Mr Z had deposited into the Santander account and that cheque A had been the closing 
balance from a joint account.
Mr Z made a number of calls to Santander during May and July 2022 trying to find out what 
was happening with his account and told that the bank that he needed access to the funds to 
pay for an operation he was having overseas. But Santander didnt always get back to him 
and when it did wasnt able to tell him much.
  
Santander unblocked Mr Zs account on 13 July 2022 and allowed him access to the 
proceeds of cheque B. However, it said it couldnt allow Mr Z access to the proceeds to 
cheque A due to it being in both Mr Zs and Miss Ks name. Santander also recognised that it 
should have unblocked Mr Zs account sooner than it did. It apologised and paid Mr Z £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused. Mr Z said he also wanted the 
bank to release the proceeds of cheque A. But Santander said it couldnt credit the cheque 
to his account as it was in joint names. 
Mr Z brought his complaint to our service where one of our adjudicators looked into what 
had happened. He said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Mr Zs 
account and had done so to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. However, he 
said that Santander had made a mistake in allowing Mr Z to deposit cheque A into his sole 
account. So, he said Santander should pay Mr Z some more compensation. Santander 
agreed and offered a further £100 compensation. It also reissued cheque A to Mr Z in his 
and Miss Ks name.
 
Mr Z didnt accept the adjudicators view. He said the amount of compensation offered is not 
enough. He wants more money for the trouble hes been caused by Santanders actions.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit Santander to block an 
account. This means Santander is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Having looked at all the evidence Santander has provided I dont believe it was 
unreasonable in the circumstances for Santander  to block Mr Zs account. Santander has 
explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in 
doing so Santander were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I 
accept, the banks actions caused Mr Z inconvenience and upset when it decided to block 
his account and asked him to provide information, I cant say the bank did anything wrong 
and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
However, while Santander are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Santander initially blocked Mr Zs account on 5 May 
2022. I can see that Santander asked Mr Z to provide it with information and Mr Z did so 
quickly. And that Santander completed its enquiries with the other bank about the cheques 
on 16 May 2022. However, following this, Mr Zs account remained blocked for just under 
another two months. 
Santander hasnt offered an explanation why to took so long to complete its review. I can 
also see that Mr Z contacted Santander on more than one occasion during the time his 
account was blocked and told them he needed access to the funds for an operation. But 
Santander didnt always get back to him. So, Im satisfied Santander has caused 
unnecessary delays in releasing Mr Zs funds and its communication could have been better. 
Santander accepts its service fell short and have paid Mr Z £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset Mr Z was caused. Ive considered what Mr Z has said about how 
Santanders actions impacted him. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for 
him.  But Im satisfied that £100 compensation recognises the impact Santanders actions 
had when it was completing the review of his account. So, I wont be directing Santander to 
pay any more to resolve this aspect of his complaint
I next turn to Mr Zs complaint point about the deposit of cheque A into his account. Mr Z 
says he wants the proceeds of the cheque, and that Santander shouldnt have allowed him 
to deposit cheque A into his account. I can understand Mr Zs difficulty in understanding how 
the bank could have paid a cheque made out to him and his ex-partner jointly into an 
account in Mr Zs sole name. The simple fact is that it shouldnt have, and in doing so 
Santander made a mistake.  
Mr Z says he has lost out on the proceeds of the cheque. And he has explained that he has 
had difficulty depositing the cheque with other banks due to it being made out in joint names. 
So, he wants the money that the cheque represents. He says that the cheque represents 
money made up from savings and wages over the years. And is his. I note too that Mr Z sys 
he has not been in contact with Miss K for around twenty years and does not know her 
whereabouts. 
I appreciate that Mr Z finds himself in a difficult position, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
supports what Mr Z has said about his sole entitlement to the funds, which the cheque 
represents. Ive looked at the evidence Mr Z provided Santander, which was a bank 
statement from the account he held with Miss K. And I am not satisfied that this does show 
what he says. I say this because there is a payment into the account with a reference to 
Miss K. I also do not know what if any arrangement Mr Z had with Miss K about the money in 
their joint account. So, I wont be directing Santander to pay Mr Z the proceeds of the 
cheque, because I cant be sure he is entitled to all of it.
 
Due to the time that has now passed Santander cant say how this mistake came to be made 
which allowed the cheque to be deposited into Mr Zs account. However, it has recognised 
the trouble and upset its mistake caused Mr Z. It has now offered Mr Z a further £100 
compensation and recently reissued the cheque to Mr Z made out in joint names. I think this 
is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that this puts Mr Z back in the position he would have 
been had Santander not made the mistake it did in allowing Mr Z to deposit the cheque into 
his account in the first place. And the £100 compensation recognises the impact Santanders 
mistake had on him. So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right by doing the following: 
Pay Mr Z £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank 
incorrectly allowing Mr Z to deposit a joint cheque into his sole account
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman