DRN-3398826
Complaint
Mr P complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with him. Hes said that he was struggling financially at the time he 
took this loan and he shouldnt have been given it as it was unaffordable. 
Background
In July 2014, TCFC provided Mr P with finance for a used car. The amount lent was 
£4,693.00 The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £3,519.76, and the total amount 
to be repaid of £8,212.76 was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £228. 
In September 2019, Mr P complained that the payments to this hire purchase agreement 
were unaffordable and so the finance should never have been provided to him. TCFCs 
successor, looked at the complaint on behalf of it. And it didnt uphold the complaint. It said 
that the checks completed before the agreement was entered into confirmed that the finance 
was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that TCFC had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary matters
Mr P has argued that the company which purchased TCFCs assets also purchased its 
liabilities. He says that this is understanding that this is the case from his research into the 
law. 
Mr P hasnt cited his research. So Im not sure which law it is exactly Mr P looked into. 
However, there isnt anything which automatically transferred the liabilities of a company 
onto another simply as a result of a purchase of assets. A purchaser may choose to accept 
liability for historic acts of a previous company but there has to be a clear, unequivocal and 
unambiguous undertaking of this being the case. 
Ive seen no such undertaking here and the successor company maintains that it has 
provided no such commitment. I also dont think that the successor company responding to 
the final response on behalf of TCFC constitutes a formal legal transfer of responsibility in 
the way Mr P suggests and I am satisfied that TCFC is the correct respondent for Mr Ps 
complaint.
Did TCFC act fairly and reasonably when entering into this agreement with Mr P?
I now turn to the substantive merits of Mr Ps dispute.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. 
TCFC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that TCFC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P 
could make his payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to him. And if the 
checks TCFC carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what reasonable and 
proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ps complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
TCFC says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment with Mr P. During this assessment, Mr P provided details of his monthly income 
and his expenditure. TCFC says it also carried out credit searches on Mr P which did show 
defaulted accounts and some outstanding balances. But when the amount Mr P already 
owed plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ps living expenses were deducted from his monthly 
income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mr P says he was 
already struggling at the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr P and TCFC have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
TCFC carried out did go far enough. So while Ive noted Mr Ps comments regarding the 
defects in TCFCs affordability assessment, these dont make a difference here as I agree 
that TCFCs assessment of affordability didnt go far enough. In my view, TCFC needed to 
take further steps to verify Mr Ps actual living costs, given the number of defaults on the 
credit search carried out, in order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As TCFC didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think TCFC is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr P. Bearing in mind, 
the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have 
expected TCFC to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Ps regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mr P has provided us with  including his bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Mr Ps committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments are deducted from his monthly 
income at the time, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that the amount Mr P had left over once his actual expenses and the monthly 
payment for this agreement are deducted from his income is less than what TCFC typically required to be left over before agreeing to lend. But this doesnt in itself mean that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld in the way he appears to believe. Indeed, what I need to think 
about here isnt whether TCFC complied with its lending policy  after all a firms lending 
policy might allow clearly unaffordable loans to be provided and I wouldnt say that a lender 
merely complying with its lending policy in these circumstances meant that it acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
What Im required to think about here in order to determine whether TCFC acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr P, is whether Mr P had sufficient disposable income to enable him to 
make the monthly payments to this agreement. And having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that the available information indicates that Mr P did have sufficient funds left over 
to make his monthly payments in a sustainable manner, notwithstanding the fact that Mr P 
might have had less left over than TCFCs typical buffer. I say this while particularly mindful 
that Mr P was being provided with an asset here, which he decided to purchase at this 
particular time, rather than cash funds. 
Ive also looked at the final decision Mr P has referred to. But while I agree consistency is 
important each case we receive is considered on its individual facts and circumstances. And 
Im not bound by the outcomes reached by other ombudsman on different cases with 
different facts. 
Ultimately, Im required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own independent  
conclusion on the matter. That said and with a view to providing some clarity and 
reassurance to Mr P, it might help for me to explain that there is a key difference between 
this complaint and the one Mr P has referred to. This key difference is that the ombudsman 
in the other case thought that proportionate checks would have shown that the monthly 
payments to the agreement were unaffordable. And, in Mr Ps complaint, I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown the payments to be affordable  although I accept 
that Mr P is unlikely to agree with this.  
So while Im not required to replicate the outcomes reached by ombudsmen, nonetheless I 
dont consider that my answer here is incompatible or inconsistent with the final decision     
Mr P has referred to, notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that TCFCs checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr P did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented TCFC from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. So Im satisfied that TCFC didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr P when it agreed to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially as hes been waiting 
sometime for a final answer on his complaint. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman