DRN-3364794
The complaint
Ms O complains about the customer service she received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Halifax, when she called in to ask for financial help. 
What happened
Ms O has a basic current account with Halifax. On 27 December 2021 Ms O called Halifaxs 
Financial Assistance team for some assistance with her account. She said that over the next 
two weeks she would be short on funds as she had two large standing orders coming out of 
her account. She said the operator asked lots of personal questions which she wasnt happy 
to answer, including about medical matters. She said she kept getting cut off, was spoken to 
very harshly, and with little empathy. She said she got off the phone more anxious than 
when she started the call. Ms O said the Financial Assistance team refused to offer any 
financial assistance. 
Ms O then said she called again to speak to the complaints team who she said refused to 
put her through to anyone else or log a complaint for her. She brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Halifax had not had the time to consider the complaint before it came to our service and it 
then provided a final response to Ms O so that we could move the complaint forward. In its 
final response Halifax said, as Miss O had raised a similar complaint twice before, it would 
need to complete a full review before it would consider issuing any further compensation. It 
said it had been unable to locate the phone call to the Financial Assistance team but asked 
Ms O to provide an itemised bill showing the call time, number, and duration of the call. It 
said it would then review the matter. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. She listened to 14 call 
recordings between Ms O and Halifax, including Ms Os call to the Financial Assistance 
team, which Halifax was eventually able to provide, and didnt agree that the team were rude 
or provided poor customer service. 
Ms O asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She said she felt that it was okay for the 
business to make her feel emotionally distressed and not help her. Ms O said she spent a lot 
of time on the calls and she wanted the ombudsman to consider the emotional distress and 
inconvenience this had caused her.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear Ms O has been in some financial difficulty recently. I can see this has 
been a really difficult time for her. Ms O is concerned that my conclusions will be swayed by 
the investigators assessment of her complaint. So, I would like to reassure her that my 
review is completely independent of the investigators. I have read the file and listened to all 
the phone calls provided by Halifax myself and my decision is based on what I believe is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms O but having done so I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anything further. 
During her call to the Financial Assistance team at Halifax Ms O explained that she had two 
payments pending from her account after which she wouldnt have much money to live on 
for two weeks. Ms O doesnt have an overdraft on her account. She asked the operator for 
some help, like a gesture of goodwill, to tide her over. The operator explained to Ms O what 
he could do to help but this related to lending facilities which Ms O didnt want. He said a 
gesture of goodwill wasnt something the bank could do. Towards the end of the call he 
suggested Ms O contact the payees of the payments due from her account. Ms O didnt 
agree with this and the call ended abruptly.
I found the operator to be polite, helpful, and appropriately sensitive to Ms Os situation. He 
only asked personal questions that were relevant for security screening. However, he 
couldnt give Ms O what she wanted, which was a deposit of money into her account. And it 
does appear to be this which upsets Ms O on the call. 
I do understand why Ms O called the Financial Assistance team for some help. She had 
calculated how much money she had and knew there would be a problem in the short term. 
And informing Halifax of this was a responsible thing for her to do, to make it aware she was 
in difficulty. But its not reasonable to expect Halifax to give money to customers in these 
situations. The operator explained what he could do, which is around lending and charges. 
He also suggested Ms O contact the payees which was a reasonable suggestion. Im 
satisfied the operator did what he could to help Ms O.   
Ms O complained to Halifax. I listened to all the complaint calls. Ms O said she was 
distressed about how she had been spoken to on the phone by the Financial Assistance 
team. Halifax explained to our service that Ms O had made multiple complaints with very 
similar reasons. It said it paid her compensation for these previous complaints. For this 
current complaint, it said it needed to fully investigate first - which it was able to do after Ms 
O brought the complaint to this service. Halifax repeatedly said this on the phone but Ms O 
kept asking why it couldnt be resolved on the phone now, with a gesture of goodwill. Ms O 
repeatedly asked for a gesture during all the calls. 
I found the operators on these complaint calls to be polite, professional, and appropriately 
sensitive to Ms Os situation, responding and explaining clearly and calmly why it couldnt 
provide compensation until a full investigation had been carried out.
I do understand Ms Os strength of feeling in this matter but Im satisfied Halifax hasnt done 
anything wrong and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman