DRN-3140146
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his private health insurance claim.
Mr S will see the business name above is a slightly different name to the Aviva business our 
investigator referred to. Aviva Insurance Limited is the insurer of the policy and the correct 
business for my decision to be about. My references to Aviva include its agents. The change 
of business hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
What happened
Mr S was a beneficiary of a corporate employee group policy until he retired in 
November 2010. He said he contacted the insurer, Aviva, to continue to the policy.
In September 2020 Mr S contacted Aviva for authorisation to see an osteopath as hed been 
referred by his GP for treatment. Aviva didnt authorise the claim as under the terms of Mr S 
policy he needed to be referred by a consultant. Mr S is unhappy as he says the policy he 
previously had didnt need a consultant referral and in 2010 hed asked Aviva for the same 
policy to continue.
Aviva said the claim was declined in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr S 
took out when the corporate policy ended.
Mr S complained to us. He wants Aviva to accept the claim and honour the policy he thought 
hed bought or refund all the premiums hed paid since 2010 with an adjustment to allow for 
inflation plus compensation for his inconvenience.
Our investigator said Aviva had fairly declined the claim under the terms of Mr S policy. She 
listened to initial call between Mr S and Aviva in 2010 and thought Aviva had been clear to 
Mr S that his new policy wouldnt have the same benefits as the corporate policy but he 
could select different cover options. Aviva has told us the follow up call with Mr S wasnt 
available.
Mr S wants an ombudsman decision. Hed listened to the call recording and said Aviva 
comments that (the policy) is very similar to what you had and it was very comprehensive 
led him to believe he was getting the same cover as his previous policy. He also believed 
details of the cover were discussed in the unavailable follow up call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and that it 
also shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think theres evidence to support that the policy was mis-sold to Mr S in 2010 and 
I think Aviva declined Mr S claim reasonably. Ill explain why.
On 23 December 2010, when Mr S called Aviva to ask for a continuation of the policy hed 
had with his employer, Aviva told Mr S his new policy would be on an individual basis and 
wouldnt have benefits in line with the corporate policy. So I think Aviva was clear to Mr S 
that the policy wouldnt be a continuation of his previous policy but a new policy.
Aviva did tell Mr S that the policy was very similar to what you had and it was very 
comprehensive but it also told Mr S that the policys not like for like and that the policy was 
modular and he could choose options of cover.  As Aviva was clear that the cover wasnt like 
for like I dont think Mr S could reasonably believe he was getting the same cover as his 
previous policy.
In the call different options and quotes were discussed and Mr S said he wanted to think 
about it all. Hes told us he made a follow up call to discuss cover. I understand why hes 
disappointed that call recording isnt available but given the time passed since the call its not 
unreasonable for Aviva to not have the recording.
Ive looked at the policy documents to see if the cover Mr S had under the policy he took out 
was sufficiently clear.
The policy schedule for the year ending 30 November 2020 shows Mr S had full outpatient 
cover. Looking at the full policy document, on page three, it says:
Over the next three pages there are five options for out-patient cover. If you have 
chosen one of the reduced out-patient options instead of C1 this will be shown on 
your policy schedule.
The cover Mr S had for treatment as an out-patient at the time, C1, says treatment is paid in 
full for:
Specialist referred treatment by:
 a physiotherapist
 a chiropractor
 an osteopath
The policy definition of specialist doesnt include a GP, and that definition isnt unusual. So 
GP referred treatment for an osteopath wasnt covered under the policy cover Mr S had. He 
could have selected additional optional benefits and I think the policy is clear that Option D, 
Other treatment and therapies, includes GP referred treatment for an osteopath. But Mr S 
hadnt selected that option.
I think the policy documents were sufficiently clear about the cover Mr S had under his policy  
and as Mr S pre-authorisation claim wasnt covered by his policy terms I think Aviva fairly 
declined the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but for the reasons above I cant reasonably say Aviva did 
anything wrong and theres no basis for me to say it needs to refund the premiums to him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman