DRN-3811588
The complaint
Ms M complains that the loan she had from Loans 2 Go Limited was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Ms M borrowed £1,000 from Loans 2 Go in April 2022. She needed to repay £205.56 per 
month for 18 months, with the last payment due on 14 October 2023.
Ms M says that Loans 2 Go didnt carry out enough checks when it assessed her application. 
She says she has had to leave her job due to ill-health and has fallen behind with payments. 
Ms M says she has had to borrow from friends and her mental health has been affected.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out an affordability assessment which included validating Ms Ms 
income and expenditure and checking her credit file.  It says it found the loan was affordable 
at the time of the lending but acknowledged Ms Ms circumstances may have changed since. 
As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to write off 50% of the interest (1,350.04) for the loan.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She considered that the 
checks carried out by Loans 2 Go were reasonable and proportionate and indicated the 
repayments were sustainably affordable to her.
Ms M responded to say, in summary, that she had further supporting evidence and 
forwarded bank statements and her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Loans 2 Go lent to Ms M. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Ms Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Ms M applied for her loan, Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about her 
financial circumstances, checked her credit file and validated both income and expenditure. 
Im satisfied these checks went far enough and that Loans 2 Go assessed the loans 
affordability based on the verified information. Although it found Ms M had overstated her income and understated her expenditure, it still calculated that she had sufficient disposable 
income to make the repayments.
Ive also looked at the detailed credit check that Loans 2 Go carried out at the time. Although 
there is some adverse information on the file, I dont find there was anything to indicate 
further lending was irresponsible. I say that because:
The two defaulted accounts are from 2019 and 2020 and do not indicate Ms M is in 
current financial difficulty;
She has taken out two short-term loans in the last year, but both are up-to-date and 
the credit file shows no history of repeated lending;
All Ms Ms active accounts are up-to-date;
She is well within the limits of her credit cards, mail order accounts and overdraft 
facility;
I have now looked at the bank statements and credit file Ms M has submitted and Im 
satisfied that the income and expenditure shown in the months leading up to the loan is in 
line with the figures Loans 2 Go used in its assessment.
I can see that Ms Ms latest credit file shows recent financial difficulties, but this is all 
subsequent to the Loans 2 Go loan. I can also see that Loans 2 Gos original credit check 
included every credit account that was open at the time of the lending, based on the most 
recent report.
So, there is nothing in Ms Ms submissions to indicate Loans 2 Go made an unfair lending 
decision, but I accept her circumstances have changed since then. Loans 2 Go has 
confirmed that its offer to reduce the interest charge on the loan by 50% is no longer 
available to Ms M, but I would remind it of its obligation to treat a consumer in financial 
difficulties fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman