DRN-1643020
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he got through a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasn't fit for purpose. Mr W would like to reject the car and 
end his finance agreement.
 What happened
Mr W says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a four year old car with a mileage of 
63,000 miles  on 8 March 2019.
Mr W says he had problems with the car as soon as he got it. He says within two weeks the 
engine management light (EML) came on. As a result the supplying dealership replaced the 
catalytics at no cost to Mr W.
Mr W says he had more problems - in June 2019 a knocking noise was investigated and 
again repairs were carried out at no cost to himself. In September  2019 the seals around 
the door were noted as worn and the brake and disc pads identified as needing to be 
replaced soon.
Mr W complained to BMWFS who didn't agree to his request to reject the car. But did offer 
£600 towards the cost of a replacement clutch despite later on  telling him there was no fault 
with the clutch.
Mr W says he doesn't feel BMWFS properly investigated his complaint.
BMWFS said that Mr W accepted repairs under warranty so wasn't able to now reject the 
car. It investigated a knocking noise but this couldn't be replicated. However the inspection 
revealed a problem with the clutch. Even though the clutch problem was due to wear and 
tear it offered £600 as a contribution towards the cost as the problem arose within six 
months of Mr W having the car. 
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint.  He found it was likely there was a fault with the 
car as the catalytics needed replacing within a month of Mr W having the car. But Mr W 
agreed to the repair which was successful. He felt the other issues were down to wear and 
tear.
He felt there had been a misunderstanding over the clutch. The dealership confirmed there 
wasn't a fault with the clutch but Mr W had said he believed a clutch should be replaced after 
60,000 miles. As  a result he thought BMWFS believed the clutch did require repairs which is 
why it offered £600 towards the cost..
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr W didn't.
Mr W said there had been a problem with the clutch - he felt that BMWFS had lied to him 
about this. Also the service book had never been stamped when he got the car. He said he felt the car had been mis sold to him. He says he was told despite the high mileage that it 
would last at least another 25,000 miles before needing any work.
Our investigator considered these points but didn't change his view.
Although our investigator  hadn't investigated a  possible mis sale of the agreement as that 
hadn't formed part of Mr W's original complaint BMWFS did provide some information and 
agreed for this to be looked at. He contacted the supplying dealership but those involved in 
the original sale no longer worked there. One member of staff said he thought it was unlikely 
a commitment for a second hand car to have a guaranteed fault free further mileage of 
25,000 was unlikely. He felt it was likely that the dealer provided some reassurances on 
durability that Mr W misinterpreted.
Our investigator  didn't feel there had been any deception over the clutch. And felt that as 
BMWFS honoured its offer to contribute £600 towards the cost of a replacement clutch that 
this was a reasonable solution.
Mr W didn't accept this further view . He still felt his complaint hadn't been investigated 
properly. So he asked for an Ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as I've reached 
the same conclusion as our investigator.
From what Mr W has told us he had a problem shortly after getting his car that resulted in 
the catalytics being changed at no cost to him.
I am conscious that Mr W took out an agreement for a used car with a reasonable mileage 
on the clock. As such he might expect there to be some wear and tear issues that might 
need addressing sooner than with , for example , a new or newer car with less or no 
mileage.
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose. And if a problem arises within the 
first six months of having the car we usually says its the responsibility of the business to 
show if the issue was something that was present or developing at the point of sale. If there 
is such an issue we usually say its reasonable to allow one attempt to repair.
I haven't seen any evidence to show that Mr W asked to reject the car when the issue with 
the catalytics arose. And even if he had, we might feel felt one attempt to repair this issue 
was reasonable. And as I understand it that repair was successful. And at no cost to Mr W. 
So I feel this issue has been dealt with by repair.
I would agree with our investigator that the other issues Mr W has mentioned such as the 
door seals and disk and brake pads are serviceable items subject to wear and tear. In 
themselves they are not issues that we would normally say would be grounds for rejecting a 
car.
I understand when Mr W complained to BMWFS about a knocking noise with the car it had 
the car inspected. The knocking noise was there but a fault wasn't identified.. But it seems at 
the same time BMWFS identified a problem with the clutch due to wear and tear.Despite the fact BMWFS wasn't responsible for wear and tear issues as the problem with the 
clutch arose within the first six months of Mr W having the car It offered a contribution of 
£600 towards the cost of the work needed.
There seems to be some confusion as to whether the clutch needed replacing or not. I know 
Mr W feels there has been some deceit here but I haven't seen any evidence of this. I think 
its more likely there was  a misunderstanding between the parties involved. But BMWFS has 
honoured its agreement to pay £600 so I don't feel Mr W has been disadvantaged.
On the basis that I haven't seen any evidence that Mr W didn't want his car repaired when 
he had the first problem  and allowed a successful repair. And that other issues are wear 
and tear issues for which we wouldn't normally say a business was responsible for 
I don't feel I can reasonably expect BMWFS to allow Mr W to now reject his car.
After our investigator issued his view Mr W raised another point. He felt the car had been 
misrepresented to him. He said that the dealership told him the car would last at least 
another 25,000  with no repairs needed despite its high mileage of 63,000 at the point of 
sale.
Our investigator raised this with the business which said it had considered this. But as there 
was no one to talk to who was involved in the sale it couldn't investigate this any further. 
It was however happy for our investigaor to look into this and take a view.
Our investigator spoke to the supplying dealership who confirmed there was no one still 
working there from the time Mr W took out his agreement. The dealership did however say it 
was unlikely anyone would give such a commitment.
I think its unlikely such an agreement would have been given. It must be impossible to 
guarantee a used car would be fault free for a given time. I agree with our investigator's view 
that its likely that either some general assurances were given. Or Mr W misunderstood what 
he was told. But as Mr W hasn't given us any evidence to support the verbal guarantee he 
was given. And there is no other information that I can consider I don't think I can reasonably 
conclude that the agreement was misrepresented to him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that i don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman