DRN-3809876
The complaint
Mr H complains IGO4 Partners Limited (IGO4) offered an unfair increase in price for his 
motor insurance policy premium after he notified it of his change of address. And was not 
happy with the explanation for the increase.
There are several parties and representatives of IGO4 involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to IGO4.
What happened
Mr H obtained his insurance using IGO4 who are an insurance broker for a number of years.
On 2 December 2021 Mr H received a renewal quote from IGO4. The cost of the premium 
was £377.51 and was due to start on 27 December 2021.
On 14 December 2021, Mr H moved to a new house. He contacted IGO4 to advise it of his 
new address and to renew his annual policy. IGO4 said it would send a new renewal quote 
to him. It did send a revised quote and the renewal premium was just over £1,000. 
Mr H contacted IGO4 to discuss the increase and it said the cost was computer generated. It 
also said it was to do with his new address. Mr H did not renew his policy through IGO4.
In March 2022 Mr H made a complaint to IGO4. IGO4 said it was unable to confirm the way 
in which the renewal quote was calculated by the insurer, but it was based on the insurer 
rates applicable at the time of renewal being obtained.  
IGO4 said when it had amended his address, his current insurer no longer offered a new 
policy. It had therefore searched its panel of insurers for an alternative quote and the 
renewal offer sent to him was the best it was able to offer based on the information it held. 
As Mr H was not happy with IGO4, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said they were 
satisfied IGO4 had offered its best renewal price from its panel of insurers. And as Mr H had 
decided not to accept the policy there was no loss to himself. They acknowledged searching 
for a new policy was inconvenient to Mr H, but it isnt something they would suggest 
compensation was due.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, the insurer will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, 
the policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the number of fault claims and non-fault 
claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be 
to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk posed. 
But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell any insurer that it should use, or discount, specific data. Thats because the 
risk is for each insurer to take on so each one will decide how to assess it and will price the 
policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks 
are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell an insurer how much to charge 
Mr H, I can look at whether IGO4 treated him fairly when obtaining new quotes for him after 
he changed his address.
In this case IGO4 acted as the broker to obtain a motor insurance policy on behalf of Mr H. I 
saw that Mr H bought his motor insurance through IGO4 in December 2014 and this policy 
successfully renewed each year up until December 2021.
In mid-December 2021 when Mr H informed IGO4 of his change of address, the premium 
cost increased slightly for the final two weeks that the policy had to run.
I have seen evidence from the insurer, that said following Mr Hs change of address it was 
unable to provide cover and did not offer a new policy. I saw that IGO4 therefore obtained 
alternative quotes for Mr H through its panel of insurers and gave its best quote to him.
I agree the quote given to Mr H by IGO4 from the alternative insurer was a lot more 
expensive than his previous policy, but as the quote was calculated by a different insurer this 
is not a price increase from the original insurer. This was the best premium quoted through 
IGO4s panel of insurers.
I saw in the renewal letters sent to Mr H that IGO4 said; 
 you have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around. However, we always check our panel of 
insurers to make sure we offer you the best price we can.
I recognise Mr H wants IGO4 to give a specific explanation about the way the price of the 
quote was calculated. It did explain that the change he made to his policy was his address, 
so this will have been a factor in it. Mr H said he may move to a new house again in the 
future so he would like to know which locations have a high premium. However it is not 
possible for IGO4 to be specific for a number of reasons.
IGO4 will not be able to explain the difference in price because it is the broker and not 
the insurer. The cost of the policy premiums provided by IGO4 were set by the insurer 
and not itself. IGO4 have no control over how a premium is calculated.
Insurers calculate the cost of premiums based on risk and the risk is not just based on 
one single factor, such as home address. Insurers change the way they calculate risk on a regular basis, and it cannot be 
predicted specifically how risk will be calculated at a date in the future. 
Mr H chose not to go ahead with the updated renewal quote provided by IGO4 that used his 
new address. Having to shop around for a policy can be inconvenient, but as the customer 
that is Mr Hs choice. I understand Mr H obtained a policy with another insurer at a similar 
rate to what he had been quoted by IGO4 on 2 December 2021.
I do not think IGO4 has treated Mr H any differently to its other customers. It accepted his 
new address details and then searched its panel of insurers with the same updated details 
and it gave him the best quote that it was able to. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not require IGO4 to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman