DRN-4270708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q have complained that more 2 life Ltd (which I will refer to as M2L here) 
refused to allow them to port (transfer) their equity release mortgage onto a new property, 
because M2Ls valuer said it was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs Q say that, on redeeming the mortgage, they had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of about £7,000, which they believe to be unfair because they do not believe 
the new property is unsuitable. They believe that M2L should have agreed their application.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs Q being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs Q took out an equity release mortgage with M2L. They say they 
specifically chose this product because it had the facility to port the mortgage onto another 
property, subject to meeting lending criteria.
In 2022 Mr and Mrs Q decided to move and applied to port the mortgage. As part of the 
application process it was necessary for M2L to have the new property inspected. An 
independent third party surveyor was instructed to carry out a valuation. After the surveyor 
inspected the new property and reported back to M2L, the request to port the mortgage was 
declined. The surveyor had noted that the property was directly adjacent to commercial 
premises, with other commercial premises within influencing distance. The surveyor had 
noted another issue  the absence of a firebreak wall  but the use and proximity of 
commercial premises meant that he gave the property a £0 valuation.
Mr Q, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, queried this. The surveyor confirmed the 
issue with the firebreak wall was an error, but the concerns relating to the property being 
next to commercial premises remained. As a result, M2L wasnt able to change its decision 
to decline the request to port the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Q complained about the decision to decline their mortgage application, and also 
said theyd been overcharged the valuation fee  paying £385 instead of £310. M2L upheld 
the complaint about the valuation fee, and offered compensation of £150, made up of a 
refund of the £75, plus £75 for distress and inconvenience. However, M2L didnt change its 
stance on its decision not to lend on this particular property.
Dissatisfied with M2Ls response, Mr and Mrs Q brought their complaint to our service. The 
crux of the complaint is that Mr Q notes that M2Ls lending criteria says that properties close 
to commercial premises can be considered, and he disputes that the commercial premises in 
question have any adverse effect on the property he and Mrs Q wanted to buy. As a result, 
Mr Q says that the lending criteria have been unfairly applied.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that M2L was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the surveyor 
when deciding whether or not the property offered suitable security for a mortgage.
Mr Q disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some 
further points, which I summarise below.
having due regard to his interests, and bearing in mind that the decision would result in 
substantial financial loss to him, it would be fair and reasonable for the decision to be 
reviewed;
the report contained mistakes;
he paid for the report, not M2L, and was due a fair assessment;
the report M2L received contained additional information from the report he and the 
solicitor received, which is unethical, misleading and dishonest;
in the light of this, the underwriters should  and could  have approved porting the 
mortgage;
because M2L has failed to take his interests into account, it has not acted fairly or 
reasonably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M2L is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that M2L makes in respect of what 
those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for M2Ls 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
M2L has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. In relation to the valuation report, even though 
Mr and Mrs Q paid for it, it was for the benefit of M2L in order for M2L to decide if the 
property would be suitable security for the mortgage. M2L isnt a surveying business, and so 
it does not carry out its own property inspections; instead it instructs a firm of surveyors to do 
this.
The valuation was carried out by an independent third party, who I note from the report is an 
Associate of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Im satisfied, therefore, 
that M2L instructed a suitably-qualified person to carry out the inspection, and that M2L was 
entitled to rely on the surveyors opinion. 
After the issue with the firebreak wall was drawn to his attention, the surveyor confirmed that 
hed inadvertently ticked the wrong box, which had led to this information populating the 
valuation report (which is in the form prescribed by RICS). Nothing turns on this, though, 
because the decision not to lend was based on the surveyors opinion that the adjacent 
commercial premises adversely affected the property.
As I said above, M2L was entitled to rely on this opinion, but Im also satisfied that it took 
Mr Qs concerns seriously and raised them with the surveyor. Mr Q argues that the needs 
and interests of customers should come before M2Ls commercial interests. However, M2L has to give consideration to the risks involving in any lending decision, and weigh those 
against the benefit of agreeing to the application. This does not mean that Mr and Mrs Qs 
needs, wishes and interests are paramount and must come before all other considerations.
Mr Q has highlighted information he found on M2Ls intermediaries website about 
commercial premises, which he believes helps his argument that M2L made the wrong 
decision. However, Im not persuaded that it does, in fact, support Mr Qs position  in fact, 
rather the opposite. The information states:
Any property adjacent/adjoining a commercial premises is unacceptable unless 
otherwise agreed. While the property may not be directly adjoining a commercial 
premises, it still may be unsuitable based on unsightly premises or noise concerns. 
If you become aware of any commercial premises within the vicinity, it might be worth 
considering: 
The type of premises 
 Is it a food outlet, a pub? If so, its highly probable these will have an impact, 
whereas a local village post office, for example, may not have the same impact. 
The volume of premises 
 Is it just one or is there a row of commercial premises? How close is it/are they? 
 Is it/are they clearly visible or noticeable? 
 Could there be any noise concerns?
In this case, the property Mr and Mrs Q wanted to buy is directly adjacent to a cocktail bar 
with a large outside drinking area/beer garden, and directly opposite the property is a 
concert hall which also contains a bar. Given this, Im not persuaded that M2L has unfairly or 
incorrectly applied its lending criteria in relation to this particular application.
Overall, Im satisfied that M2L reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all 
relevant factors, including (but not limited to) exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Qs specific 
circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that M2L gave fair consideration to this application 
and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding whether or not to 
agree the application. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that M2L has 
treated Mr and Mrs Q unfairly or unreasonably.
I appreciate Mr Q doesnt think the valuation report was fair, or that the decision M2L 
reached as a result was fair either, because he doesnt agree with the outcome. But Im 
satisfied that M2L gave fair consideration to Mr and Mrs Qs application and, because the 
application didnt meet its lending criteria, M2L was entitled to decline to lend.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy about the ERC they had to pay when they 
redeemed the mortgage with M2L. But this was a term of the mortgage contract. That 
contract also said that any application to port must meet M2Ls lending criteria. 
Because the application was outside lending criteria and the mortgage couldnt be ported, 
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for M2L to apply the ERC, in line with the terms 
of the contract to which Mr and Mrs Q had agreed to be bound in 2020.
In all the circumstances, whilst I acknowledge Mr Qs strength of feeling about what 
happened, Im unable to find M2L has done anything wrong in relation to its decision not to 
lend on the new property.Putting things right
M2L has accepted that it charged the wrong valuation fee, and it has offered to refund the 
extra £75 charged for this and pay £75 for distress and inconvenience, £150 in total. I am 
satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and I dont require M2L to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, more 2 life Limited must 
pay Mr and Mrs Q £150 compensation. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman