DRN-3123683
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited didnt treat him fairly at a time when he
experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr S entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance the purchase of a
van in September 2016. The cash price of the van was £10,000 and the total amount
payable under the agreement was £16,672.48 to be repaid by making 48 payments of
£326.51 per month, in addition to Mr Ss advance payment of £1,000.
From November 2016 Mr S experienced financial difficulties. Arrears built on the account
and a payment plan was agreed to address those arrears. Ultimately, due to the level of
arrears, in September 2017 Moneybarn ended the agreement, repossessed the car and sold
it. It asked Mr S to pay the remaining balance of his agreement, which was £6,403.92.
In the same month, Mr S raised a complaint with Moneybarn. He said that hed asked
Moneybarn if he could sell the van and repay the agreement, but it had said no. He said that
if Moneybarn had allowed him to sell the van when hed asked, he wouldve got a lot more
for it than when it was sold at auction and he likely wouldve been able to repay the lending.
Moneybarn issued a final response to the complaint in December 2017. It said that the
agreement was clear that Mr S would not own the van until the finance had been settled in
full, so he was not allowed to sell it before then. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr Ss complaint was subsequently considered by this service. In January 2018 one of our
investigators concluded that Moneybarn had not treated Mr S unfairly by not allowing him to
sell the van when hed asked to. Our file on the case was subsequently closed.
In August 2019 Mr S told this service that Moneybarn had written to him in July 2019 to say
that it had been working with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to look at its payment
practices and had identified some of the payment plans it had previously agreed with its
customers may not have been suitable. It said Mr Ss account had been identified as one 
which may not have been suitable, so it decided to write off the outstanding balance of his
account and mark it as settled with credit reference agencies.
Mr S showed this service that hed raised a further complaint with Moneybarn. In summary,
hed said;
- Moneybarn hadnt treated him fairly overall on the grounds that it didnt offer enough
support or empathy, including an occasion it had laughed at him on the phone;
- the payment plan it had set up was not affordable;
- if Moneybarn had allowed him to sell the car when hed asked, he couldve sold it for
up to £10,000; and
- the default Moneybarn had recorded on his credit file had a severe impact on his
ability to obtain credit and caused a significant amount of stress.
Mr S also told this service that if Moneybarn had come up with a sensible repayment plan,
hed still have the van. Mr S asked for all of the payments he made towards the agreement
to be returned to him.
Moneybarn issued a response to Mr Ss follow up complaint in November 2019. It said that it
thought the agreement had been affordable for Mr S based on the information he had given
it at the outset and that it had treated him fairly when he fell into financial difficulty. It said
that it had detailed the early exit options available to Mr S to prevent the van being
repossessed during February and March 2017. It said that at the time it issued a default
notice, Mr Ss account was £1,289.04 in arrears and because Mr S had been unable to pay
this, it had acted correctly at the time the agreement was terminated.
Mr S referred his subsequent complaint to this service in January 2020. He added that a
month after the van was repossessed, he was in a position to pay £1,000 towards the
arrears and he reiterated that a representative of Moneybarn had laughed at him on the
phone at a point when hed asked for more time.
Another of our investigators considered Mr Ss second complaint. They said we shouldnt
comment on whether Moneybarn shouldve let Mr S sell the van, because that complaint had
already been considered. Overall, in reference to Mr Ss further complaint, they found that
Moneybarn hadnt adequately assessed Mr Ss ability to afford the lending, but if it had done
so, it likely wouldve found it affordable. They found that Moneybarn had treated Mr S fairly
overall.
Mr S didnt agree, he said that Moneybarn ought to have defaulted the account sooner and
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provision decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In 
summary I said;
Mr S has raised a number of points about the way Moneybarn has treated him and its clear 
that he feels strongly about his complaint. I wont necessarily mirror the level of detail in 
which Mr S presents his complaint, but Ill focus on what I consider to be the relevant points 
in setting out what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome.
 
I think its fair to say that both of the complaints which Mr S has presented to this service are 
closely linked. Whilst I accept that we previously gave an answer on the specific issue of 
whether Moneybarn shouldve allowed Mr S to sell the van in 2017, things have moved on 
and I think that point is relevant to the current complaint. As a result, whilst its within my 
power to dismiss this aspect of Mr Ss complaint, as our investigator suggested, I dont 
intend to. So, my provisional decision will cover both of Mr Ss complaints outlined above.
In the most part Mr Ss complaints are about how Moneybarn treated him when he wasnt 
able to afford to make payments towards his agreement. Mr S raised issue with the 
affordability of the payment plan Moneybarn offered him, but not, from what Ive seen, the 
affordability of the lending itself. Its something Moneybarn considered as part of Mr Ss 
complaint, so Ill address it for the avoidance of doubt.
In deciding whether Moneybarn acted fairly in providing lending to Mr S Ive taken into 
account relevant law, rules, regulations, guidance as well as what was considered good 
industry practice at the time. In this case Ive had particular regard for the requirements for 
lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.With that in mind, I think there are two questions I need to examine to decide on what a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be;
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could not 
sustainably repay the borrowing.
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Moneybarn was required to complete reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Ss ability 
to sustainably repay the lending it provided. Carrying out reasonable and proportionate 
checks does not look the same for every customer. But Id have expected Moneybarn to take 
into account a number of factors including Mr Ss specific financial circumstances, the 
amount of credit, the total repayable, the duration of the agreement and the size of the 
regular payments, in determining what a reasonable and proportionate check would be.
Moneybarn says that it asked Mr S for information about his income, copies of his banks 
statements and completed a credit check in assessing the affordability of the lending.
Moneybarn no longer had a copy of the credit check at the point Mr Ss complaint reached 
this service, but Mr S has provided a copy of his credit file as well as his bank statements in 
the period around his application.
Whilst Moneybarn calculated that Mr Ss income had been around £1,300 per month in the 
two months leading up to his application, our investigator believed it was around £1,200 and 
having looked at Mr Ss bank statements, I think thats accurate. I also agree with our 
investigator that Mr Ss credit file showed indications that he might have struggled to 
manage his finances for as much as a year leading up to his application with Moneybarn.
Our investigator concluded that because of this, Moneybarn ought to have done further 
checks, but I disagree. I havent seen every detail of the application Mr S made, but Im 
aware that Moneybarn had completed a credit check and had sight of at least two months of 
Mr Ss bank statements. I think that even if Mr Ss credit history ought to have been a cause 
for concern for Moneybarn, I think it likely wouldve had a reasonable overview of both
Mr Ss income and expenditure based on the bank statements hed provided.
I think Mr Ss bank statements show that in the months leading up to his application, he was 
employed and received a regular monthly income in the region of £1,100 to £1,200 per 
month, from June 2016, which seems to be the point at which he began to receive payments 
from his employer.
Mr S hasnt given us evidence of his committed expenditure at the time of his application. 
But, based on his statements it seems he wouldve had a regular committed expenditure of 
just under £300, leaving him with a monthly disposable income of in the region of £800 to
£900 per month on average. Given this, Im persuaded that Moneybarn had built a 
reasonable picture of Mr Ss financial circumstances at the time of his application, and it 
therefore had completed a reasonable and proportionate check of Mr Ss ability to afford the 
borrowing. Taking into account the monthly commitment required under the borrowing 
Moneybarn gave was £326.51 per month, I think Moneybarn made a fair decision to lend to 
Mr S.Lastly, with reference to the affordability of the borrowing, Im aware that Mr S told our 
investigator about a commitment in respect of a rental agreement for £300 per month. Our 
investigator said they couldnt take that into account because they hadnt seen sufficient 
evidence that Mr S was incurring that cost at the time of his application. In any case, even if 
we accepted that Mr S was required to make that payment, I think its fair to say that he still 
wouldve been left with sufficient disposable income to afford the borrowing, and Moneybarn 
more likely than not wouldve reached the same lending decision.
Did Moneybarn treat Mr S unfairly in some other way
I think its clear from Moneybarns records, as well as from what Mr S has said, that he 
struggled to meet the payments required of his borrowing with Moneybarn early on in the 
agreement. I think both parties accept that this was due to Mr S being unable to work and 
therefore not having sufficient income to meet the repayments.
Under the relevant regulations Moneybarn had a responsibility to treat Ms S with 
forbearance and due consideration. That might have involved Moneybarn asking Mr S for 
details of his income and expenditure with a view to accepting a reduced level of payments 
for a period.
From what Ive seen, it seems that Moneybarn and Mr S were in regular contact with one 
another about his financial circumstances and ability to make repayments. I havent seen 
that Moneybarn discussed a reduction in the payments Mr S was required to make, rather it 
set up a payment arrangement to address arrears which wouldve required an additional 
sum of £60 per month from Mr S. Given what Mr S has said about his financial situation as 
well as the events which subsequently played out, I dont think it was realistic to expect Mr S 
to have met the payment plan Moneybarn offered, particularly because it seems he wasnt 
able to make the normal monthly payments under the agreement.
In this respect, I agree with what Mr S has said about the affordability of the payment 
arrangement Moneybarn offered him. In any case, I dont think Moneybarn disagrees. But its 
left to me to decide what impact (if any) Moneybarns treatment of Mr S had on subsequent 
events which ultimately led to the repossession and sale of the van.
Theres not a set action Moneybarn ought to follow in respect of customers experiencing 
financial difficulty. As Ive mentioned above, I might have expected Moneybarn to consider
 
accepting reduced payments from Mr S on a short term basis to help him regain control of 
his finances. But Id also expect it to consider Mr Ss long term prospect of meeting 
repayments as well as whether accepting reduced payments might not be the right thing to 
do because, for example, the value of the van would inevitably decrease with time, so 
repossessing earlier rather than later would ensure that Mr Ss liability wouldve been limited.
All things considered, Im not satisfied that Moneybarn acted unfairly by terminating the 
agreement when it did. Even discounting the affordability of the payment plan, I think it was 
clear that Mr S had struggled to make significant payments towards his agreement from very 
early on  something demonstrated by the income and expenditure reviews Moneybarn 
completed with Mr S. Additionally, I think the information on Mr Ss credit file shows that he 
continued to experience difficulties after the car was collected, so I think its likely that 
Moneybarn wouldve ended the agreement at some point, if not at the point it did.
At the point the van was repossessed it appears that Mr Ss account was between five and 
six months in arrears. Im not persuaded that if Moneybarn had accepted reduced payments 
during that period, Mr S wouldnt have been in a similar levels of arrears. I also think that by 
that stage, Moneybarn had acted in Mr Ss best interest in repossessing the van given his apparent reluctance to engage with it about ending the agreement. Its also the point at 
which I think it was fair for Moneybarn to have recorded a default on Mr Ss credit file.
From what Mr S has said its clear he feels strongly that Moneybarn shouldve allowed him to 
sell the van at the point hed asked to. However, I agree that Mr Ss agreement makes it 
clear that he would not be allowed to do this as the van would remain Moneybarns asset 
until the agreement was repaid in full.
That being said, Id have expected Moneybarn to have explored various options available to 
Mr S to help him end the agreement if hed wanted to; for example, he had a right to 
voluntary termination, which would involve him handing the car back and limiting his liability 
to half of the total amount payable under the agreement. Alternatively, Mr S might have been 
able to voluntary surrender the van, which would mean him handing the van back to be sold 
by Moneybarn, and the proceeds being deducted from the outstanding borrowing, net of any 
interest rebate.
Ive seen that Moneybarn tried to engage with Mr S a number of times about his exit options, 
specifically suggesting that it might be able to save him money in the long run. It doesnt 
seem that Mr S considered that offer though; his correspondence with Moneybarn suggests 
that he asked for further time to be able to regain control of the agreement. Overall Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn took reasonable steps to try to help limit Mr Ss liability under the 
agreement.
I anticipate that Mr S might argue that he may have achieved a higher sale price if hed been 
able to sell the van privately as opposed to Moneybarn selling it at auction. But Moneybarn 
sold the van for around £7,500 at auction around a year after the agreement started.
Moneybarn said that the sale price exceeded the value it had expected to receive based on 
market values, which seems to be the case.
Additionally, whilst I accept that its generally considered a private sale might reach a higher 
price in comparison to an auction sale, I have doubts in this specific case; the cash value of 
the van was £10,000 when supplied by a dealer in September 2016, I think it unlikely that Mr 
S wouldve been able to sell the van privately for a price in that region around a year later. I 
think it wouldve been more likely to have achieved a price similar to the one which 
Moneybarn ultimately achieved even if it had allowed Mr S to sell the van privately and its 
unlikely he wouldve been able to repay the borrowing, even once any interest rebate had 
been applied.
 
Mr S has said that the presence of the default Moneybarn recorded on his credit file has had 
an impact on his ability to obtain finance for another car. Ive already explained why I think it 
was fair for Moneybarn to have applied a default at the point it did. But, for the sake of 
clarity, even if I didnt think it had been applied fairly, I dont think it wouldve had a significant 
impact on Mr Ss ability to obtain finance elsewhere.
I say this because Mr Ss credit file shows that he had a number of defaults applied by other 
lenders both before and after his relationship with Moneybarn. In particular, it seems that he 
had a number of further defaults applied after the Moneybarn account was showing as 
defaulted. So, I think its unlikely to have had a significant impact.
Overall, I agree that Moneybarn couldve been more helpful at the time Mr S experienced 
financial difficulty by arranging a suitable payment arrangement. But, even if it had I dont 
think Mr S wouldve found himself in a different position to the one he ultimately ended up in. 
Now that Moneybarn has written off the outstanding balance of his lending and removed the 
default from Mr Ss credit file, I think hes likely in a better position than I wouldve expected 
even if Moneybarn had handled things better.With reference to Mr Ss assertion that one of Moneybarns representatives sniggered at him 
whilst discussing his financial situation during a telephone call, given the length of time which 
has now passed the call is unlikely to be available, so I havent been provided with a copy of 
it. Nonetheless I accept that it wouldve been upsetting for Mr S if it happened. I wouldnt 
have necessarily made a compensatory award if I had been presented with evidence that it 
had happened, so I dont find it necessary to now make one.
Lastly, Im aware that Mr S has said that hes found that one of the credit reference agencies 
is still reporting the default, rather than showing the account as settled. The copy of Mr Ss 
credit file he initially provided to this service shows the account as settled, so its not clear 
whether the default being represented by another credit reference agency is a mistake on 
Moneybarns part. Even if it was, I think its unlikely to have had an impact on Mr Ss credit 
worthiness given the other adverse information recorded on his credit file. Nonetheless, Id 
expect Moneybarn to now ensure that the information its reported with credit reference 
agencies is accurate an up to date in light of what Mr S has said.
Moneybarn didnt respond but Mr S did. He said that he didnt agree with the outcome Id 
reached but didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has responded with any materially new information or evidence, I 
find no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As such I 
now make those conclusions final. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman