The complaint
Mrs D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant 
consider this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took 
place before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by 
our jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep 
things simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Mrs D took out in 2000. It 
was sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in May 2020 and I asked 
for everyone to send me anything else they wanted me to think about before I made my final 
decision.
Heres what I said:
Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
The policy was sold during an interaction in a store. AXA should have made sure Mrs D 
was aware the policy was optional. Mrs D says she wasnt made aware the PPI was 
optional. Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy was 
taken out. So, I have based my decision on the evidence thats available alongside what Mrs 
D has told us.
Looking at a copy of Mrs Ds application form Ive been given, I can see it asks applicants 
to tick a box for the PPI if they want it.
On the form, the section has been ticked and Mrs D has signed the overall agreement.    
 Mrs D would have the opportunity to review and query anything on the application 
she wasnt sure about before she signed it. So, I think its most likely AXA made Mrs D 
aware she had a choice about buying the policy and she chose to take it  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
DRN-1914109AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mrs D says she had a medical condition at the time of sale and our 
adjudicator thought this condition was something that would have made it difficult for Mrs D 
to make a claim on the policy, so they upheld her complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the information Mrs D has told us about her condition. 
Having done this, I dont have enough evidence that Mrs D would have thought this would be 
the main reasons she might have needed to claim on the policy in the future, especially as 
shes told us the condition has never caused her to have to take any time off work. And the 
policy would have covered her for other things.
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.
Mrs D says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI would have paid 
out alongside her employee benefits. It also would have covered her if she became 
unemployed.
Mrs D says she had some savings but having the PPI would have meant these 
savings could have been used for other things. So, I think the PP would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong.
Overall, I dont think Mrs D has lost out by anything AXA might have done wrong.
Neither party has responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive now reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account 
in deciding Mrs Ds case.
As no one had anything further for me to consider  my decision remains the same. I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman