DRN-2114498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that esure Insurance Limited have declined their claim following a
burglary at their home and cancelled their policy from inception.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had household buildings and contents insurance with esure. The policy was
taken out online in 2015 and renewed annually. In October 2019 their home was burgled. In
the course of the burglary the thieves caused damage to the property and stole some of their
possessions. The items taken included a safe which, on the day of the burglary, contained
scrap gold and cash from Mr and Mrs P's business, which Mr P had brought home overnight
for safekeeping. Mr P estimates the value of the gold was around £17,000, and there was
about £3,000 in cash.
The burglary was reported to the police, who attended the property. Mr and Mrs P made a
claim on their policy with esure. To gain access to the property the thieves had smashed the
glass in a rear door. As Mr and Mrs P had home emergency cover on their policy
esure arranged to have the property made secure. esure explained to Mrs P during a
telephone conversation the amount of contents cover they had on the policy, other than for
separately listed items. This was around £7000, but esure made it clear that the case had
been referred to underwriters, because of the items that had been reported stolen.
Once their underwriters had reviewed the claim esure told Mr and Mrs P that they don't
provide cover for business use of a home. And had they declared that high value
items belonging to the business would be stored at their home, they wouldn't have been
offered cover. esure cancelled Mr and Mrs P's policy from inception and refunded
the premiums they'd paid since taking out the policy in 2015.
Mr and Mrs P complained to esure who didn't change their decision, as they said in reaching
it they'd applied the correct underwriting criteria.
Mr and Mrs P then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and
recommended the complaint be upheld. He said when the policy was taken out online Mr
and Mrs P weren't asked any direct questions about whether their home would be used in
connection with their business. Instead, they were given a list of assumptions, which
included a statement that the property 'was used as a private residence with no business 
use (other than clerical use with no business visitors)'. And they agreed to these 
assumptions when they took out the policy.
He said that in making their decision to cancel the policy from inception esure had relied on
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This allows
insurers to cancel a policy as if it never existed if there's been a careless misrepresentation.
Mr P had answered 'no' to the question 'is your home used for business purposes?'. And our
investigator said esure had treated this as a careless misrepresentation. He asked esure to
provide details of what they included in the definition of 'business use', which they provided
and said this information would have been included in the 'Welcome Pack' sent to Mr and
Mrs P.
Our investigator didn't feel that by agreeing to the assumptions esure had shown Mr and
Mrs P's home was always going to be used for their business, and he didn't think Mr and Mrs
P had made a careless misrepresentation, either at inception of the policy or at renewal, as
they weren't asked a clear question about business use. So he didn't think esure had acted
fairly in cancelling their policy from inception.
He recommended esure reinstate Mr and Mrs P's policy, remove any record of the policy
having been voided and reconsider their claim.
esure didn't accept our investigator's opinion. They said Mr and Mrs P had clearly agreed to
a statement about the use of their property which was incorrect. The statement about no
business use of the property was in every set of documents Mr and Mrs P had been sent. If
any of the statements were incorrect they were told to ring esure, which they hadn't done.
And had they been told the property was to be used in connection with Mr and Mrs P's
business they wouldn't have provided cover.
The case came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 15 July 2020. In it I 
said: -
When Mr and Mrs P took out the policy and agreed to the assumptions that were set
out. esure used this information to weigh up the risk of providing them with cover.
esure have told us that the assumptions they agreed to haven't changed since they first took
out the policy in 2015, and if Mr and Mrs P had told them their property would be used for
business purposes then they wouldn't have provided cover. And one of the assumptions Mr
and Mrs P agreed to, was that their property would be 'used as a private residence with no
business use (other than clerical use with no business visitors)'.
CIDRA says that when entering into a contract of insurance the consumer has a duty to take
reasonable care not to make any misrepresentations. And that an insurer can avoid a policy
if there's been a qualifying misrepresentation by the consumer, and they can show that
without that misrepresentation they wouldn't have entered into the insurance contract.
CIDRA presumes, unless shown to the contrary, that the consumer knew a matter about
which the insurer asked a clear and specific question was relevant to the insurer.
When Mr and Mrs P first took out the policy they were sent their policy documentation, which
included a policy schedule. The schedule records the information Mr and Mrs P gave to
esure when taking out their cover. This includes ' Is the property to be used solely as a
private residence with no business use?' And the answer given, which was 'Yes'.
There's no definition in the schedule of business use. But under the heading 'General terms
and conditions which apply to your policy' it's stated that esure must be advised if any of a
list of events occur. This list includes 'If your Home will be used for any business or
commercial use'. And continues by saying that after such a change is notified esure will
advise whether the cover can continue, and if so on what terms. The policy also states that
esure have the right to void the policy if a policyholder deliberately provided them with
inaccurate or misleading information, or did not take care that the information provided was
accurate and not misleading. This right is also set out in CIDRA.
So in addition to the assumptions Mr and Mrs P agreed to when first taking out the policy,
which stated their property 'was used as a private residence with no business use (other
than clerical use with no business visitors)', once they received their policy and schedule I
think it should have been clear to them that their policy didn't cover their home for business
use. The expression 'clerical' is widely used and I think easily understood. esure define this
as administration or computer based activity, with no visitors, staff or business stock on thepremises. They've told us that had Mr and Mrs P told them their home was used for
business, they'd have been asked questions to get more details of the use. But they wouldn't
cover business stock or cash, due to the high risk involved.
It's not clear exactly how long Mr and Mrs P had been bringing scrap gold and cash related
to their business home. They've said that this happened 'rarely' but 'occasionally'. But
they've also told us that scrap gold was collected over a period and then brought home for
Mr P to sort and check the carat, after which it was sent off by post to the company who
bought it from them. They've also told us that the amount of gold and cash in their home
safe, on the day of the burglary, was much higher than usual and it would normally only be
worth between £8,000 and £10,000. And this is something that Mrs P also told esure, when
they called her to request more information about the goods belonging to the business,
being stored in their home safe. So even if this wasn't something that happened on a weekly
basis, it's clear that they'd used their property in connection with their business on multiple
occasions.
Each time Mr and Mrs P renewed their policy with esure they confirmed that the information
they'd previously provided was correct. This included that their home wasn't used for
business, apart from the limited clerical use covered by the policy. They were told at each
renewal that if anything had changed they needed to contact esure, but they didn't do so.
And even if it wasn't made entirely clear when Mr and Mrs P first applied for the policy what
esure regarded as business use, I think should have been clear to them once they received
their policy and policy schedule. If at that point they were unclear if they were covered for the
cash and scrap gold belonging to their business, being stored in their home, even if this was
for short periods, they should have contacted esure.
The last renewal of the policy was in June 2019. esure have told us that the renewal was
issued on 5 May 2019. The first paragraph of the renewal schedule states 'Please check this
document very carefully. It records the information you gave us. You have a duty to
take reasonable care to ensure the information provided or confirmed to us before you enter
into, vary or renew your Policy is accurate and not misleading.' And goes on to ask them to
call if any of the information in incorrect. This is followed by a warning that if they fail to
comply with this duty future claims 'may be reduced, rejected, additional terms applied or
your policy voided'. Mr and Mrs P didn't contact esure having received the renewal
documentation, and their policy renewed on 6 June 2019.
I've listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs P and esure about their claim. I appreciate that
the burglary was very upsetting for them both, and that having their claim declined and their
policy cancelled, added to their distress. But both Mr and Mrs P said that they weren't aware
they needed to tell esure their property was being used in connection with their business,
and they didn't know they weren't covered for business use. And during one call Mr P told
esure that he'd never read their policy.
I'm satisfied Mr and Mrs P's home was being used for business purposes, and they should
have advised esure of this, but they didn't do so. I accept that esure made it clear any
business use had to be declared when the policy was taken out, and at each renewal. And I
think that by failing to advise esure that their property was being used in relation to their
business, Mr and Mrs P made a qualifying misrepresentation which was relied on by esure.
esure have provided evidence from their underwriter's confirming that they wouldn't have
provided cover if they'd been told scrap gold and cash from the business was being stored in
the property, even if this was only on an occasional basis.
I'm aware that when the burglary was reported that esure arranged for Mr and Mrs P's
property to be made secure, but this was done because they had home emergency cover on
their policy. During the initial call when Mrs P reported the burglary, esure made it clear thatthe claim would have to be referred to underwriters before cover was confirmed. And any
conversation about the amount of cover under the policy, was about what could be covered
if the claim was accepted. So cover was never confirmed. And once the underwriters had the
opportunity to review the claim esure advised Mr and Mrs P without delay that their claim
was declined and the reasons for this.
During the calls to esure Mr and Mrs P said they'd be prepared to forget about their claim for
the stolen gold and cash, provided their claim for damage to their property and stolen
personal items was paid. But where there's been a misrepresentation this relates to the
whole of the insurance contract, not just part of it.
I'm persuaded that esure were entitled to void the policy from inception on the basis that Mr
and Mrs P made a qualifying misrepresentation, which esure relied on when they provided
cover. So I don't think esure did anything wrong in declining Mr and Mrs P's claim and
voiding their policy and I won't be asking them to do anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
esure havent responded to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs P have indicated that they dont accept my provisional decision which they 
consider to be unfair. And theyve said they dont understand how Ive reached a different 
outcome to our investigator, whose assessment they consider was fair.
Theyve said that they have business premises, with security, including a large safe, and 
over the last eight years they havent used their home for any business purpose. And theyd 
taken the gold that was stolen home to value it so it could be sent to the business who buys 
it from them.
Mr and Mrs P have also said that they believe that if the gold hadnt been in their home, 
esure would have covered the damage to their property which occurred during the burglary 
and would have covered their stolen personal items. But from the moment they called esure 
to report the burglary, they were never asked about the damage, or the items stolen, and 
they believe esure wrote off their claim from the outset. And they feel that the least esure 
should be required to do is cover the damage to their property and the personal items that 
were stolen.
Theyve also said that after the burglary they both suffered from anxiety and depression and 
theyve had to work hard to compensate for their losses. Theyve had to pay for the repairs 
to their doors and windows, and its fortunate that theyve been able to do this as otherwise 
theyd still be living with a boarded-up door. Finally, theyve said that their home still isnt 
insured, and theyve had to install at burglar alarm and cameras, so they feel safer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a complaint is brought to our service, we have a two-stage process. The complaint is 
initially considered by an investigator, and if either, or both parties, is unhappy with the 
investigators assessment they can request that the case is referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision. The ombudsman will then review the case anew and if they reach a different 
outcome to the investigator, will prepare a provisional decision setting out the reasons why 
theyve arrived at this outcome, to which the parties have an opportunity to respond.In this case esure were unhappy with our investigators assessment and requested a 
decision. Having reviewed all the evidence provided by the parties, I reached a different 
outcome to that of our investigator, and I set out the reasons for this in my provisional 
decision.
Mr and Mrs P have maintained throughout that theyve never used their home for business 
purposes. When they initially took out cover with esure, and at each renewal, Mr and Mrs P 
agreed that their property would be 'used as a private residence with no business use (other 
than clerical use with no business visitors)'. But when they reported the burglary to esure 
they said their home safe, which had been stolen, contained about £17,000 of scrap gold 
and about £3000 cash belonging to their business, which had been brought home for safe 
keeping. So, I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were using their property, even if only 
occasionally, for business purposes, and had they told esure about this they wouldnt have 
offered them cover. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs P have said about having business premises with security 
and a safe, but this hasnt changed my opinion. When the burglary occurred, they were 
storing scrap gold and cash belonging to their business, in their home safe, which Im 
satisfied was using their home for business purposes.
Its not my role to consider how esure would have dealt with Mr and Mrs Ps claim in different 
circumstances. In this case Mr and Mrs P told esure about the scrap gold and cash 
belonging to their business being in their home safe, during the first call they made about 
their claim. And esure considered the claim based on the information theyd been given. 
When a claim is notified to an insurer, they have to validate the claim and ensure its covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. Having been told that items belonging to Mr 
and Mrs Ps business were being stored in their home safe, when they didnt have business 
cover, esure told them the claim was being referred to underwriters. They didnt require 
details of the items stolen at that stage, as they werent in a position to confirm cover. I 
remain satisfied that esure correctly referred the claim to underwriters and notified Mr and 
Mrs P promptly, once theyd made the decision to decline the claim, explaining the reasons 
for this.
I understand that having their claim declined and their policy voided has been difficult and 
stressful for Mr and Mrs P. I also understand that theyd be happy if esure agreed to cover 
the damage to their property, and the personal items stolen. But as Ive explained, where 
theres been a misrepresentation, as Im satisfied theres been in this case, this relates to the 
whole of the insurance contract not just part of it.
So I remain satisfied that by not advising esure their home was being used in relation to their 
business, Mr and Mrs P made a qualifying misrepresentation, which esure relied on when 
they provided cover. And Im persuaded that esure were entitled to void Mr and Mrs Ps 
policy from inception. So I don't think esure did anything wrong in declining Mr and Mrs P's 
claim and voiding their policy and I won't be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman