DRN-2695802
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bamboo Limited provided her with a loan which she says was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Ms S with a loan as follows:
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan amountMonthly  
repayment*Loan status
1 November 2018 24 £2,000 £123.46 Outstanding 
Ms S mainly said that if Bamboo had checked properly before providing the loan it wouldve 
realised that it shouldnt have provided this loan.
Ms S told us the payments were too high and so she had needed to borrow money from her 
family to pay her debts. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and he set out 
the steps Bamboo should take to put things right. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said:
Ms Ss outstanding debt has reduced since it lent to her, so it queried the detriment 
to her 
she paid her loan monthly repayments as expected
her credit card activity suggests she likely took advantage of 0% balance transfers
she only opened one other credit account in the six months prior to the loan 
suggesting she wasnt reliant on credit
a significant proportion of her debt was a car loan, which she was paying perfectly
she had no active arrears on credit, defaults or county court judgements
bank statements Bamboo has seen retrospectively would not have acted as a barrier 
to lending at the time as the account stayed within the overdraft limit, it did not show 
any returned payments or excessive charges and it also showed non-essential 
spending.
Bamboo didnt agree that the loan was unaffordable for her and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ss case.
Bamboo asked Ms S some questions about her income and expenditure. 
Bamboo did its own checks, which included obtaining information about Ms Ss credit history 
and taking into account statistical information about how much someone in Ms Ss position 
typically spent each month on basic essentials. Also allowing for Ms Ss spending on her 
other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that, after making the monthly repayments for this loan, Ms S would still have around £304 spare cash. So the loan looked comfortably 
affordable for her. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability of this 
loan before it agreed to lend to Ms S. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair lending decision 
when it lent to Ms S based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that Ms S had multiple 
credit card accounts and within the previous 6 months she had taken out additional credit 
cards. Within the previous 2 months or so she had also taken substantial cash advances on 
a credit card  which is a very expensive way to borrow money. Ms S was making only 
minimum monthly repayments which meant that she was incurring substantial interest on an 
ongoing basis and making no meaningful progress towards clearing that debt. Bamboo 
noted that Ms Ss debt balances at the time of the application totalled £42,161.00  and it 
was able to see that her credit card debt alone amounted to £11,700. 
I dont think Bamboo thought carefully enough about what this credit history showed about 
Ms Ss overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had calculated that she had 
disposable income of approximately £427 each month which, to my mind, wouldve seemed 
at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried out. I think Bamboo should have 
considered carefully why someone with the amount of disposable income its checks 
suggested Ms S had would have needed to make use of expensive credit the way it could 
see Ms S was doing  and how much confidence it could have in the information it had 
gathered. I dont think, based on what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo 
saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Ms S was going to be able to make the 
repayments for this loan in a sustainable way. 
Bamboo calculated that Ms S would spend £1,257 per month on servicing her outstanding 
debts. As our investigator pointed out, this was more than 50% of her net monthly income. 
The total amount of outstanding debt was more than Ms S earned in a year. 
Like our investigator, I think that Bamboo ought to have realised that this was such a 
significant proportion of her spending money each month that, in reality, the repayment of 
£123.46 that Ms S had to make to pay this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for 
her. So Bamboo shouldnt have provided it to Ms S.
In coming to my decision I've thought carefully about everything Bamboo has said, including 
its comments made in response to our investigators view letter. Bamboo said its checks 
were proportionate  our investigator didnt think they were. But I dont think I need say more 
about this particular point because, to my mind, even if Bamboo had done more in-depth 
checks, I dont think it wouldve seen any information that wouldve reassured it. 
I've looked at the bank statements provided by Ms S which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Ms Ss overall financial situation at the time. I can see that, far from 
having the amount of disposable income left over each month that Bamboo had 
calculated, in reality Ms S was struggling financially. Its clear that she was operating 
at least one of her bank accounts substantially in overdraft both before and after taking 
out this loan  in the two months running up to her taking out this loan typically the 
account was never in credit and at the end of the month she was around (minimum) 
£1,300 overdrawn and paying bank charges for this. 
Bamboo didnt ask for this information at the time and it has only recently seen it. But it 
supports my view that, when making its lending decision, given the amount of Ms Ss 
monthly pay and knowing the extent of her existing credit debts, I think Bamboo shouldve realised it was unlikely that she was going to be able to repay the £2,000 loan she had taken 
out in November 2018 in a sustainable way  in other words, without needing to borrow 
further.
And I've seen nothing on the more up-to-date credit report supplied by Bamboo to make me 
think differently. Although this shows a small improvement of approximately £5,300 in the 
amount of overall debt, this isnt significant having regard to extent of her total indebtedness, 
especially bearing in mind her salary. And the fact that she is now using 92% of available 
credit (up from 68%) supports my view that she is struggling to manage debt effectively and 
continuing to have money problems.
The fact alone that Ms S has avoided any significant negative credit markers and mostly 
kept up her repayments doesnt mean that she has necessarily been able to do this in a 
sustainable way. Ms S has said that she borrowed money from her family and I think that 
might explain how she has been able to maintain her credit record to this extent.
 
I accept that Ms S may have taken advantage of some balance transfer offers  and thats 
possibly why a couple of credit cards shown on her credit file had nil balances. But 
transferring the balance to a new card was only an effective debt management strategy if the 
new cards were then cleared within the 0% interest period. I can see nothing to make me 
think that Ms S was in a position to do that. The indications are that she has mostly been 
making no more than the bare minimum repayment, which means she has taken out 
additional borrowing (effectively incurring ongoing interest charges on interest already owed) 
but is making no overall progress towards clearing the debt within a reasonably foreseeable 
period.   
In summary, Bamboo saw information that suggested it was unlikely this loan was going to 
be sustainably affordable for Ms S when she was already struggling to get through the 
month without needing to rely on credit, not making any real headway towards clearing her 
outstanding debts and her income was insufficient to support the level of debt she had to pay 
- particularly keeping in mind that she was signing up to pay a loan which could cost her 
around £2962.99 in total over the next two years.  
So I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided this loan. 
As Ms S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms S some other way. 
I think Bamboo showed appropriate forbearance when circumstances changed and Ms S 
needed more time to pay. 
So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over and above what I've set out 
below.
For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.  
Putting things rightIn line with this Services approach, Ms S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. But she has had to pay interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. With this in mind, Bamboo should: 
add up the total amount of money Ms S received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Ms S made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Ms S having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms S bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Ss credit file regarding the loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman