DRN-2361170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE dealt with a claim 
under their home insurance policy for a water leak in their property.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were explained at length by 
our investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. I want to assure Mr and Mrs G that Ive 
read and considered everything theyve submitted even if I do not mention it in detail. Ive 
condensed the complaint and all of the information to reflect the informal nature of our 
service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that things didnt go as they shouldve done when the repairs were being carried 
out. Its agreed there were delays, and that some of the work wasnt done to the standard it 
shouldve been. 
When a water leak occurs in a property its always going to take some time to repair, 
especially as the property needs to be dried out before work can begin. This can be a time-
consuming process. Its also not unusual to discover issues along the way which mean the 
repairs take longer than expected. Theres also a real possibility of delays due to the number 
of different contractors and parties who are involved in repairs of this type.
Here there were three underground leaks which affected the main bathroom, the main and 
small hallways, a bedroom with an ensuite, and a study. To repair this the property needed 
to be dried out, both bathrooms had to be ripped out and reinstated, with redecorating done 
to the hallways, bedroom and study. 
Looking at the timeline of events its clear there were some avoidable delays. But its also 
clear that because of the extent of the repairs needed it was always going to take quite some 
time. Mr and Mrs G say they expected the repairs to take no longer than 3 to 4 months. 
Considering the list of work to be done this appears to be a very conservative estimate, and I 
think it was always going to take quite a bit longer. But on the other hand, it shouldnt have 
taken as long as it has. 
To put things right for what happened Great Lakes have agreed to pay £1,000 for trouble 
and upset caused. Mr and Mrs G feel this doesnt cover the time it has taken to have the 
repairs done nor the effort they went to chasing up progress. Theyve also explained about 
missing family events, visits to the property and disruption to their daily lives. Some of the 
disruption was always going to happen because of the nature of the problem. And the 
disruption was also always going to go on for several months due to the repair works 
required. But again, the disruption shouldnt have lasted as long as it did.
Mr and Mrs G are looking for considerably more compensation than Great Lakes has agreed 
to pay; at least £15,000. I dont underestimate the impact of what happened, and no amount 
of money can change this. However I think its important for me to say that my role isnt to 
punish a business or fine it for areas of its service which have let Mr and Mrs G down. My 
role is to look at the complaint impartially, and where something has gone wrong, award 
compensation which I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
After carefully considering everything, including how the claim was handled and the impact 
this had, Im satisfied £1,000 is fair compensation for this complaint.
As well as compensation there is the matter of outstanding works to the property.
Great Lakes has agreed to a list of remedial repairs. Mr and Mrs G say they would prefer to 
use their own builders to finish the work that needs to be done.  
I can see why Mr and Mrs G feel this way after the problems theyve had. However in my 
impartial role I need to consider if the proposed remedy is fair on both sides; and I think it is. 
Great Lakes agreeing to fix the outstanding problems seems a fair outcome. 
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the £1,000 payment and the completion 
of the remedial work by Great Lakes is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
Thats not to say that Mr and Mrs G havent been affected by what happened, they clearly 
have. However Im happy the resolution agreed by Great Lakes is fair compensation for the 
complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr and Mrs Gs complaint Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE should pay them 
£1,000 for trouble and upset caused by the way the claim was handled.
Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE should undertake the remedial work listed below:
- Pay to repair damage to a leather arm chair
- Repair or replace two chipped toilet seats
- Repair or replace the chipped quartz top in the main bathroom
- Repair or replace the scratched bathroom cupboards in the main bathroom
- Repair the inconsistencies in the paintwork on the walls
- Fix a hole in the bath
- Repair the shower tray
- Clean and buff the quartz worktops
- Investigate and repair a bulge above the toilet 
Theres also an outstanding cost in incurred for electricity used in the drying process. 
Reasonable costs for this should be paid to Mr and Mrs G subject to providing proof of 
payment.
When all of the work is done, and if required, Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE should 
organise with Mr and Mrs G for the works to be signed off. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE should take the action I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman