DRN-2228644
The complaint
Mr C complains during a service carried out under his HomeCare insurance policy, 
British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused his boiler to leak. This leak damaged 
his boiler and worktop and now they both need replacing. 
Mr C has also mentioned the casing around his boiler was damaged during another visit. But 
hes said this was dealt with as a separate complaint by British Gas and he doesnt seem to 
have asked us to look into it. So Ive looked at his complaint about the water damage only.
What happened
Mr C has a HomeCare insurance policy with British Gas. In April 2019, his boiler was 
serviced under his policy. And in September 2019, he says he noticed it was leaking and his 
worktop was damaged. Mr C has told us he arranged a visit from a British Gas engineer who 
confirmed a valve in the boiler hadnt been tightened properly which had caused the leak.
Mr C says it mustve been the engineer in April 2019 who caused the leak as no one else 
had touched the boiler. And he hadnt noticed the leak earlier as it was hidden by casing. 
Mr C has explained his boiler was in very good condition before the damage British Gas 
caused on its visits and the leak had saturated it and caused it and his worktop to rot.  
British Gas thinks the leak was caused after the service. It says the boiler is old; it had 
advised Mr C to replace it previously; and its pointed out that the leak wasnt reported for 
five months. British Gas engineer who carried out the works in September 2019 confirmed 
there was a screw at the front of the boiler that had been screwed in unevenly which he 
corrected. But he said it didnt have anything to do with the leak which was at the back of the 
boiler where the isolation and filling loop are. British Gas has said during the service the 
engineer wouldnt have needed to loosen any of the pipes. 
Unhappy with British Gas response, Mr C came to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint as she thought Mr C wouldve noticed the leak earlier if it was caused 
during the service. And she thought it was clear based on the evidence that the boiler 
needed repair and was already damaged. As they werent able to reach a resolution the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this complaint should be upheld for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. I know this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. Ill explain why.
Mr C has provided pictures of the damage caused to his boiler and worktop which hes said 
British Gas hasnt considered. But I can see British Gas hasnt disputed a leak occurred or 
that it caused further damage. 
 Mr C thinks the engineer who carried out his service in April 2019 caused the leak as he left 
a part loose. Hes given us detailed testimony about the conversation he had about the loose 
part with the engineer in September 2019  so I thank him for taking the time to give us that 
information. But from everything Ive seen in this case, I cant say its more likely the 
engineer caused the leak. British Gas engineer has told us whilst he did fix a screw which 
was uneven in September 2019, this was at the front of the boiler and was not the cause of 
the leak. Hes said the leak was coming from the isolation and filling loop valve at the back of 
the boiler. As a new part was no longer available, the boiler needed replacing. 
At the time of the visit the engineer made a note of what hed seen on Mr Cs visit record 
which we have a copy of. And I can see at that point he said the leak was coming from the 
isolation and filling loop valve and a new part was required  which supports what hes told 
us now. British Gas has told us there wouldve been no need for the engineer who carried 
out the service to loosen any pipes as part of the service. And had the leak been caused by 
a loose valve which just needed tightening, I think its unlikely a new part would have been 
needed.
There were a number of months between the service and Mr C discovering the leak. I know 
hes said this was because the leak was inside the boiler and covered by the casing  so he 
didnt know it was happening until he noticed the damage to his worktop. But taking 
everything Ive seen, Im not satisfied its more likely the leak was caused by British Gas. 
And I think its plausible it couldve been caused at any point since the service and Mr C 
might not have noticed it because it hadnt been going on for as long as he thinks. 
I appreciate Mr Cs said he keeps his belongings in an excellent condition so he cant see 
how the leak could have happened other than British Gas causing it. But even if he does 
look after his things, leaks and other damage can happen over time because of general use 
and wear and tear. And I think thats particularly likely in this case considering the boiler is at 
least 15 years old. 
Mr C has said hes spent a lot of time dealing with this complaint and hes had to take time 
off work for visits by engineers. But as I dont think British Gas caused the damage to Mr Cs 
boiler in this case, I dont think it needs to do anything to compensate Mr C for this.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman