DRN-3875116
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided unsuitable investment 
advice in 1996 when it recommended them to invest £20,000 in a portfolio that was too risky 
for them.
Mr and Mrs S are represented in this matter by a claims management company.
What happened
On 1 March 1996, acting on Barclays recommendation, Mr and Mrs S invested in a Barclays 
Unicorn Portfolio made as follows:
500 Fund £4,000 20% (Mr)
Capital Fund £8,000 40% (Mr & Mrs £4,000 each)
Worldwide Fund £4,000 20% (Mr)
Gilt & Fixed Interest Fund £4,000 20% (Mr & Mrs £2,000 each)
During the time they held their portfolio it produced a total income of £3,252.79 which was 
paid to Mr and Mrs Ss bank account. When they encashed their investment, on 
5 September 2002, they got back £20,294.72. 
Mr and Mrs S were mainly unhappy that, as they were first time investors in 1996, the 
medium risk portfolio, which included the Worldwide Fund, was unsuitable for them. 
In response to their complaint, Barclays said Mr and Mrs S were both of working age with 
many years of working life ahead before reaching state retirement age. It was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs S would have been able to take a medium attitude to risk at that stage in their 
lives. And it said the amount they invested was affordable given that Barclays was aware 
that 3 years after taking out the investment, Mr and Mrs S had around £42,000 on deposit 
in their savings account. So Barclays didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this response so they brought their complaint to us. They 
didnt feel that the fact they had held their investment for 6 years meant it had been suitable 
for them  they said they were complaining about the initial advice and not whether it 
became suitable with hindsight.
After considering the information available, the investigator recommended upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. He thought that because Mr and Mrs S had made a further 
investment in 2010 when they demonstrated a more cautious approach, even though they 
had more savings at that time plus the experience of having surrendered their 1996 
investment in profit, this suggested it was unlikely that they would have had a more 
adventurous approach to risk in 1996. He thought it more likely that they would always have 
had a more cautious attitude to risk and so the investment Barclays recommended to them 
in 1996 had been unsuitable. He went on to recommend that Barclays should pay redress 
based on the sort of investment return Mr and Mrs S could have obtained with little risk to 
their capital.  
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator. It said it was entirely reasonable for someone to 
have had a medium risk approach in 1996 and, after surrendering that investment in 2002,a 
cautious attitude to risk when investing eight years later in 2010. It said it disagreed with the 
argument that, essentially, a customer can only ever invest at the same level, or higher than 
all previous investments and if they didnt do that, it must mean the previous investments 
were unsuitable. Barclays also said that, in 2010, Mr and Mrs S were a lot older and 
approaching retirement so their objectives would have been completely different, regardless 
of their financial circumstances. Barclays said it makes sense to take a higher risk earlier in 
life and lower risk in later life.
Barclays also questioned the redress formula the investigator had proposed as it felt this 
was based on an incorrect benchmark and didnt reflect the investigators conclusion that a 
cautious/low risk investment would have been suitable for Mr and Mrs S.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Barclays has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider everything that has 
been said about the merits of this complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Barclays is unable to supply any of the point of sale paperwork from 1996. Where the 
information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely in the 
light of available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must make reasonable 
assumptions where necessary. 
Ive approached this complaint by thinking carefully about what a suitable investment would 
have been for Mr and Mrs S in 1996.
Barclays has said that Mr S was working overseas for several months of the year and that 
Mr and Mrs S had built up significant savings out of income over the years. It appears 
Barclays made an approach to Mr and Mrs S in 1996 with the offer of advice on where to 
hold their funds. 
This is a very limited picture of Mr and Mrs Ss overall financial situation  I know nothing 
about their day to day expenses or usual monthly outgoings at the time they took out this 
investment. I dont know if they had any planned big items of expenditure and made 
allowance for this or if they had kept aside some cash for emergency spending or 
unforeseen expenses. But Im mindful that they havent suggested the investment was 
unaffordable for them  merely that it was too risky. And I think the fact that it seems they 
had built up substantial savings over the years, and they had a further £42,000 on deposit in 
addition to this investment just a few years later, all suggests to me its safe to conclude that Mr and Mrs S were in a strong enough financial situation to be able to invest £20,000 in 
1996.
So Ive next thought about how likely it is that the recommended investment fitted 
Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk, given that there is no documentary evidence available from 
then to show what this was.
My starting point is that Mr and Mrs S needed to be comfortable that the level of risk 
associated with the recommended investment reflected their attitude to risk, bearing in mind 
that the crux of their complaint is that the fund was too risky for them.
Barclays told us the portfolio was classed as medium risk and therefore we must assume 
that the adviser recorded them as medium risk investors. The portfolio was set up to provide 
long term capital growth.
Barclays said Mr and Mrs S would have been correctly assessed as having a medium 
attitude to risk for the following reasons:
assuming retirement ages of 65, Mr and Mrs S were more than 10 years from 
retirement and this meant they had a decent period of time to potentially accumulate 
further savings and assets to replace the value of the investment made. 
They had previously demonstrated a tendency to save and had the ability to 
accumulate savings with Mr S sending money from abroad. 
The medium risk profile would have been selected in the Fact Find after reference to 
the brochure on investment risk. So it seems reasonable to assume there was a 
discussion with the adviser on this area and Mr and Mrs S would have adequately 
understood the risk they were committing to in order to obtain sufficient capital 
growth and tax efficiency.
I have no reason to think Barclays adviser wouldnt have discussed risk with Mr and Mrs S. 
But I cant be sure about exactly what Mr and Mrs S understood about risk. I am mindful that 
it seems to be agreed that Mr and Mrs S had no previous investment experience. Barclays 
said it made an approach to them  I take this to mean that Mr and Mrs S didnt actively seek 
out investment advice from Barclays. So I havent seen anything to make me think they 
necessarily would have had a sufficient understanding of the basic principle that risk was 
commensurate with growth potential and, in choosing to invest, they needed to balance their 
investment objectives against the risk they felt comfortable taking with their money. 
Even if they had been told the fund was medium risk, and given product literature, I dont 
know if Mr and Mrs S would have properly appreciated what this meant in terms of exposure 
to potential losses. Their long-term savings habit doesnt suggest to me that they were likely 
to have suddenly wanted to be adventurous investors. As far as I am aware, all their money 
had been hard earned and built up over the years. I dont think its likely they would have 
wanted to take even a medium level of risk if they had realised this meant they needed to be 
comfortable with the prospect of investment loss and the potential to make gains was a more 
important consideration for them both.  
Looking at the make-up of the investment portfolio, it seems clear these particular funds 
presented significantly more than a low level of risk overall. The medium risk rating 
mentioned by Barclays reflects that some elements in the fund likely tended towards volatility 
and so presented a higher risk. I accept it was probably balanced in part by the Gilt & Fixed 
Interest Fund. But Im mindful that this comprised just 20% of the portfolio. The fact that Mr and Mrs S took income from their investment suggests to me that tying up 
their money for the medium term they likely needed to in order to achieve the capital growth 
this portfolio was intended to provide tends to suggest it wasnt the right recommendation for 
them. 
I dont agree with Barclays that it follows from the fact that Mr and Mrs S held their 
investment for six years meant it had been suitable for them when they took it out. For all the 
reasons I have explained more fully above, I dont feel I've seen enough overall to be able to 
conclude that the fund reflected Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk in 1996.
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S were interested in obtaining a better return on 
some of their capital than they were expecting to achieve on deposit based savings, 
otherwise they would not have invested at all. And, although there is no way of knowing 
exactly what Mr and Mrs S understood about risk, I think they probably would have 
prioritised keeping their money secure, even while taking a chance on getting a better return 
than they were getting on their savings in the bank. So it's fair to say they were probably 
prepared to take a low level of risk to achieve their investment objectives. 
For these reasons, whilst I think it was reasonable for Barclays to recommend a risk-based 
investment to Mr and Mrs S, the risk rating of the Barclays Unicorn Portfolio did not fairly 
reflect Mr and Mrs Ss attitude to risk and so it was unsuitable for them. This is why I plan to 
uphold this complaint and direct Barclays to take steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs S said that this outcome was acceptable to them and they had nothing further to 
add. 
I have heard nothing further from Barclays and the deadline for responses has now passed 
so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. Putting things right
The appropriate benchmark is to compare what Mr and Mrs S actually earned with what they 
would have earned had they invested the £20,000 in funds where there was a small element 
of investment risk. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs S as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs S's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Barclays 
Unicorn 
PortfolioSurrendered Date of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
I find that the balance of the available evidence shows Mr and Mrs S wanted to grow 
their money with only a low level of investment risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that 
they were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment 
objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs S into 
that position. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs S would have invested 50% of 
their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr and Mrs S could have obtained from investments suited to their 
objective and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and direct it to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman