DRN-2496483
The complaint
Ms G complains about the information Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
has recorded on her credit file in relation to her personal loan account. 
What happened
Ms G had a Tesco loan account. In October 2016, she contacted Tesco to say she was 
having trouble meeting her contractual repayments of about £500. Tesco agreed that Ms G 
could make reduced payments of £100 per month for two months. Tesco made two further 
payment arrangements with Ms G of £200 per month for three months.
 
In May 2017, Tesco issued a default notice to Ms G. And her account was closed and 
moved to recoveries in July 2017. 
Ms G complained to Tesco in 2020 because she said shed noticed the default notice had 
said she couldve avoided the default by repaying her arrears or making an arrangement to 
pay. She said shed tried to do this in 2017 but Tesco had said she couldnt. Ms G was 
unhappy because it meant the default was still on her account now and she said it was 
affecting her mortgage application. Ms G wanted Tesco to remove the default. 
In response to Ms Gs complaint, Tesco said they didnt think they had acted incorrectly. 
They had allowed Ms G to make reduced payments because she was struggling. But when it 
was clear Ms G was unlikely to be able to clear the arrears and resume making contractual 
payments in a reasonable timeframe, they took the decision to default Ms Gs account. They 
said they had correctly recorded this information on Ms Gs credit file.
Our investigator considered Ms Gs complaint. He thought Tesco had treated Ms G fairly. He 
said this because he could see that the information Tesco had reported on Ms Gs credit file 
accurately reflected the conduct of her account. And although there were no call recordings 
available of when Ms G spoke to the bank about her arrangement, he thought it was most 
likely Tesco had correctly explained the arrangement to her. And that they hadnt made a 
mistake by later defaulting the account.
 
Ms G didnt accept the investigators view. She said she still thought Tesco shouldve 
allowed her to make a repayment arrangement after the default was issued. Ms G also said 
she thought Tesco were reporting the status of the account incorrectly to the credit reference 
agencies. Our investigator checked what Tesco were reporting about the account, but didnt 
think this was wrong either.
 
As Ms G didnt accept the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer is in financial difficulties, wed expect the financial business to treat their 
customer positively and sympathetically. What this means in practice depends on each 
customers circumstances. And  when recording information on a customers credit file  
financial businesses have an obligation to make sure what they record is an accurate 
reflection of the conduct of the account. 
Theres no dispute that Ms G couldnt afford her contractual repayments in 2016, asked 
Tesco for help and Tesco agreed a reduced payment arrangement. I can see from the letters 
Tesco sent to Ms G and their contact notes, that an arrangement for Ms G to make 
payments lower than her usual monthly repayment was first agreed in October 2016 and 
continued until May 2017  when Tesco decided to default Ms Gs account. 
Ms G says Tesco never told her, when she first asked them for help, she would need to be 
able to repay the arrears within a year of the repayment arrangement first beginning. The 
call recordings are no longer available. But I do have the notes made at the time of these 
calls.
The notes are brief and only one mentions the consequences of the repayment arrangement 
in December 2016. But it doesnt specify what consequences were explained. So its not 
clear if Tesco did explain everything to Ms G  including that shed need to have gone back 
to contractual payments and repaid any arrears within 12 months at the start of the 
repayment arrangement. But even if it didnt explain this clearly to Ms G, I dont think this 
makes a difference to her complaint. Ill explain why. 
If Tesco had told Ms G this when she first contacted them for help that shed need to repay 
the arrears within a year, I dont think she wouldve been able to do anything differently. She 
simply couldnt afford her contractual repayments in late 2016 and early 2017. So I dont 
think its likely, if she had been told shed need repay the arrears on top of going back to her 
usual monthly repayment within 12 months, this would have changed her decision about 
agreeing an arrangement with Tesco in the first place. And because of this, she would likely 
always have ended up facing a potential default in May 2017. 
The point of a repayment arrangement is to give the customer some breathing space if 
theyre struggling and help them get back to making their normal payments under the 
contract, where possible. In Ms Gs case, Tesco allowed reduced payments for a number of 
months but when it became clear Ms G was unlikely to be able to clear the arrears on her 
account and resume normal payments within a year  they decided to default the account. 
Generally a default can be registered when between three and six months of contractual 
payments have been missed. Its normally used to indicate where the agreement between 
the business and its customer has broken down and the customer is unlikely to be able to 
resume contractual payments. And by May 2017, although Ms G had been making the 
reduced payments as agreed, she hadnt been making contractual payments for about 
seven months. So I find Tesco were entitled to send the default notice when they did.
Ms G thinks Tescos default notice issued in May 2017 says she couldve made an 
arrangement to pay with Tesco and this wouldve meant the default couldve been avoided. 
Ive seen a copy of the default notice issued to Ms G. It says:
Please find enclosed a Notice of Default. This is a formal demand for payment. You must 
clear your arrears or make arrangements for payment with us within 28 days of this letter.
Although I see the point Ms G is making  in order to have avoided the default Ms G 
wouldve needed to have repaid the arrears in full or made an arrangement to pay the arrears in full, within 28 days of the default notice. Ms G says when she tried to do this, 
Tesco refused. 
After receiving the default notice, Ms G contacted Tesco. The notes show Ms G called to say 
she had some of the money to pay the arrears, but this was just over £500 short of the total 
amount. The notes say Ms G was told to avoid the default she would need to pay the arrears 
by the date shown on the notice. Ms G thinks Tesco shouldve allowed her to spread this 
remaining amount over a number of months. But Tesco correctly explained to Ms G what 
shed need to do in order to avoid the default when they said shed need to repay all the 
arrears within 28 days and Ive already explained this is what is meant by the reference to an 
arrangement to pay in the default letter. The notes say the call was left with Ms G saying she 
would see if she could find the rest of the money and would call back. The next time theres 
a record of Ms G speaking to Tesco is August 2017. 
Ms G now says she couldve had borrowed the additional money from elsewhere. But based 
on what she told Tesco at the time, it looks like she considered that option but, as she didnt 
get back in touch with them, wasnt able to. 
After the account was defaulted, no further interest or charges were added to Ms Gs 
balance. And Ms G made further arrangements with Tesco to repay what she owed. She 
eventually settled the account  repaying everything that was outstanding - in October 2019. 
Ms G says Tesco are incorrectly reporting the status of this account to the credit reference 
agencies (CRA). Shes provided a screenshot showing the status of the account at three 
different CRAs. Two of these have recorded the account as having been defaulted but that 
the default has since been satisfied (which means the money has been repaid). One of the 
CRAs shows the account has been defaulted but the current status is unknown. 
Tesco have provided evidence of the information its reporting to the CRAs. This shows that 
Tesco are reporting that the account was defaulted and closed, and also the default has 
since been satisfied. So although I can see why Ms G thinks the information is being 
reported differently at the CRAs, Im satisfied that Tescos records show the correct status of 
the account. If Ms G has concerns about how the CRAs are showing this information, she 
might wish to contact them directly.  
Im sorry to hear how stressful Ms G has found things because shes been applying for a 
mortgage while this complaint has been ongoing. I understand Ms G wants the default 
removed because its affecting her mortgage application and shes told us shes being forced 
to accept a mortgage offer at a much higher rate of interest than she would if the default 
were removed. 
While that might be the case, Tescos obligation was to treat Ms G positively and 
sympathetically in relation to her financial difficulties and report accurate information about 
the conduct of her account. For the reasons Ive already explained I think they did and as Im 
satisfied Tesco havent made a mistake in registering the default, Im not going to order them 
to remove it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman