DRN-3513006
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) following claims under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made claims under his motor insurance policy for damage to a car he has through a 
scheme. It seems from RSAs notes that in August 2020 Mr C contacted RSA to say he 
wasnt happy about the attitude of some of its staff in telephone conversations hed had with 
them. He then also complained about the way RSAs approved repairer had carried out the 
repairs to his car and the way they were dealing with his concerns about them. RSA 
investigated Mr Cs complaint points and issued a final response letter in September 2020. 
In this it apologised for the poor handling of some of the calls and awarded £100 in 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr C had experienced as a result of this. 
RSA also said that it understood a technician from its approved repairer had attended and 
agreed to rectify the issues with his car.  
It soon became clear the approved repairer hadnt rectified the issues. But, unfortunately, by 
this point theyd gone into administration. Mr C was asked to get his own estimate to have 
the repairs on his car properly completed. In the end, RSA arranged for another of its 
approved repairers to carry out the work required. In the meantime, Mr Cs car was damaged 
in another accident. This was registered as a new claim and the approved repairer was also 
asked to repair this damage.
Mr Cs car was repaired and returned to him, but he wasnt happy, as there were outstanding 
issues in respect of the repairs. He was also unhappy about the fact that hed been asked to 
get his own estimate for the rectification work initially. Eventually, it was agreed that some of 
the outstanding damage to the car wasnt consistent with the accidents Mr C had claimed 
for. And it was agreed that the rest of the work required would be completed. 
RSA apologised for the delays in sorting things out and paid Mr C a further £100 in 
compensation for this and an issue Mr C had with one of the call handlers. 
There was also an issue with the way one of RSAs claims handlers dealt with Mr C over the 
phone following a further incident causing damage to his car at the end of 2020. RSA agreed 
the call handlers approach was poor and waived the £100 excess due under Mr Cs policy. 
Mr C also raised concerns about the quality of the repairs carried out to his car by RSAs 
approved repairer following this incident. During RSAs review of this issue Mr Cs car was 
involved in another incident. To try and resolve the issues RSA arranged for an independent 
inspection of Mr Cs car. When RSA received the engineers report following this, it agreed 
the level of service Mr C had received had been poor and it eventually paid £600 in 
compensation and it agreed that rectification work was required. It was also agreed Mr C 
would find a repairer to carry out the further work required to his car. However, he was 
unable to find a repairer. It was eventually agreed his car could be returned to another 
branch of the approved repairer whod carried out the work initially, so that they could do the 
additional work. 
There was then a significant delay in RSA arranging for the work to be carried out. RSA has 
said this was because of issues with capacity and the fact that Mr Cs car was still 
roadworthy. RSA accept that communication by the approved repairer was poor in this 
period. There was then a further incident in which Mr Cs vehicle suffered further damage. 
The repairs required following this were added to the current estimate and Mr Cs car 
eventually went in for repair in April this year. RSA then issued a further final response 
addressing the more recent problems Mr C had experienced on 5 May 2022 and paid a 
further £600 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr C also raised complaints about the hire car company that had provided him with a hire 
car. However, as they werent RSAs agent, because the hire cars were arranged by the 
providers of the scheme Mr C gets his car under, RSA told Mr C it couldnt look into his 
complaints about them. 
Mr C originally asked us to consider his complaints about RSA in March 2021. But as there 
were ongoing issues our investigator gained RSAs agreement for us to consider everything 
that had happened up to their final response on 5 May 2022. He wrote setting out his view 
on 27 May. In this he concluded that the total of £1,400 that RSA had paid in compensation 
was adequate.  
Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He has said he thinks 
there has been some confusion, as the compensation amounts and the waived excess are 
goodwill gestures for various different issues. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that what RSA has paid in compensation for 
the various different issues Mr C has experienced is adequate for the same reasons our 
investigator set out in his view on Mr Cs complaint. 
I dont think I need to go into these reasons in detail, as our investigator has already done 
this. So, for the sake of ease, Ive listed them in bullet point form below:
The call recordings and notes Ive seen and heard show that the level of service Mr C 
received in most of the telephone conversations he had with RSAs handlers was 
acceptable. There were some calls where the level of service was poor, but Im satisfied 
the £100 RSA has paid in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused 
Mr C is fair and reasonable. I appreciate RSA also waived an excess, which I also think 
was helpful, but it is not clear to me whether this could have been recovered by or for Mr 
C anyway, so I havent taken this into account. 
Im satisfied the further £100 RSA paid for the problems Mr C had with the repairs and a 
further issue with a call handler is also fair and reasonable. 
I dont think RSA was at fault in the way it handled the situation when its approved 
repairer went into administration. Its initial suggestion for Mr C to get his own estimate 
was reasonable. And I think it was good, that once it was able to do so, RSA booked Mr 
Cs car in for the further work required at one of its other approved repairers. 
Once it became clear that the further work to Mr Cs car hadnt been carried out properly, 
RSA arranged an independent inspection, albeit after originally suggesting its approved 
repairer arranged an inspection. So, I think the action RSA took in this regard was reasonable. And once RSA established there were problems with the repairs it agreed to 
pay £600 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable for 
the problems Mr C had had with the repairs up to this point. 
There were then further significant delays in getting Mr Cs car booked in for the further 
work required and RSA has acknowledged this caused him further distress and 
inconvenience. Its paid a further £600 in compensation for this, which  again  I think is 
fair and reasonable.
In summary, RSA has paid Mr C a total of £1,400 for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of the various issues hes had. I would not describe any of the 
payments as goodwill gestures, as they were made to compensate Mr C for the poor service 
hed received. A goodwill gesture would be a payment for something that happened that 
wasnt RSAs fault, which they made despite this in an effort to bring the matter to a 
conclusion. 
This means, I am satisfied what RSA has paid in compensation for Mr Cs various 
complaints, which we have considered as one case, is fair and reasonable. I do not think a 
further award is justified. 
RSA and our investigator are right that we cant consider Mr Cs complaint about the hire car 
company, as they are not RSAs agent. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to make Royal and Sun Alliance Limited pay 
further compensation to Mr C or take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman