DRN-2670321
The complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.  
What happened
Mr M had two loans from Moneyboat between July 2019 and October 2019 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 18 Jul 2019 £400 120d £157.59 15 Nov 2019 17 Oct 2019
2 18 Oct 2019 £800 182d £246.90 17 Apr 2020 Outstanding
Mr M says Moneyboat lent to him based on insufficient checks. He says he was in 
financial hardship at the time and he was still approved for the loans despite a poor credit 
score. Mr M adds that proper affordability checks would have shown high debt levels and 
that he is now in a debt management plan to repay his loans. He says he should never 
have been approved for the second loan so soon after repaying the first and that interest 
and charges should have been frozen when he told Moneyboat about his financial 
difficulties.
Moneyboat says it conducted a credit check and asked Mr M about his income and 
expenditure. It says it verified Mr Ms income and employment with external data 
sources and that adverse information on a credit file did not exclude consumers from 
obtaining further credit as long as they met internal lending criteria. Moneyboat says its 
checks showed Mr M had enough disposable income to sustainably meet the 
repayments due on the loans. It adds that it had declined other applications from Mr M 
that did not meet its criteria, but never received notification that Mr M was experiencing 
financial difficulty. Finally it says that Mr M chose to repay loan 1 over 4 months, rather 
than six, thereby increasing the monthly repayments and that he then went on to repay 
the loan early. It says both these things indicated Mr M was not struggling financially.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Mr M was struggling to manage his money.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that Moneyboat shouldnt have approved another loan
so soon after repaying the first and he wanted further details about the basis of the findings.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr M and to Moneyboat on 4 February 2021. I summarise 
my findings here:
I found the information Moneyboat had from Mr Ms credit file should have indicated 
he might already be in financial difficulties and so Moneyboat should have carried out 
further checks before approving loan 1. I said that because his credit file showed:
oThere were seven defaulted accounts, of which three had been defaulted in 
the last 12 months;
oFive of the defaulted accounts were with debt collection agencies;
oThere were a further four delinquent accounts within the last 12 months, of 
which two had been settled;
oOne of the delinquent accounts was a short-term loan with a balance of £562 
that had been taken out a year earlier and for which Mr M had failed to make 
monthly payments of £376;
oMr M was overdrawn by £1,159 on his current account, which was above his 
£1,000 overdraft limit;
oMr M had taken out a high cost loan in July 2018, for which his regular 
monthly payments were £60;
oThere was a balance of £216 on a credit card;
So I found Moneyboat should have carried out a full financial review before it 
approved Mr Ms first application and I didnt consider its checks went far enough.
Mr M didnt provide bank statements for the period, but I considered it more likely 
than not that a full review of his finances would have shown loan 1 was unaffordable. 
I said that because:
oI considered it unlikely that Mr M had a disposable income of £520 as, that 
being the case, he is unlikely to have needed an expensive £400 loan;
oThere was clear evidence that Mr M had current financial difficulties given how 
recently some of his accounts had been defaulted or become delinquent;
oMr M was not in a position to make contracted repayments on his existing 
debt as five of his accounts were with debt collection agencies;
oI thought it likely Mr Ms bank statements from the time would have shown he 
was struggling to manage his money as his credit file showed he had 
exceeded his overdraft limit.
Taking everything into account, I found it more likely than not that better checks 
would have clearly indicated to Moneyboat that further lending was irresponsible and 
would have been to the financial detriment of Mr M. So I found it was irresponsible for 
Moneyboat to have approved loan 1;
Loan 2 was taken out the day after Mr M had repaid loan 1, and it was for 
twice the amount, to be repaid over a longer period, with higher repayments;
The credit report carried out at the time of loan 2 showed Mr Ms financial 
circumstances hadnt significantly changed and his total debt had increased 
slightly. Hed also taken out two further short-term loans in the meantime;
Given it appeared that Mr Ms financial circumstances had worsened slightly 
between the two loans, I considered it likely that proportionate checks would 
have found the higher loan 2 repayments were also unaffordable to him.
So I was satisfied Moneyboat was irresponsible to have approved both loans and it 
should put things right.
Neither Moneyboat, nor Mr M, responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
    
My final decision
My decision is that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees 
and charges on loan 1;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on the loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then Moneyboat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled;
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance left on loan 2. If this results in a surplus, then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if theres still an outstanding balance 
then Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M;
E. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
the loans up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one. If Moneyboat intends to apply 
the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman