DRN-1153530
Complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr F with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the TMPP was mis-sold. He disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
I see Mr F has used a third party company to help bring his complaint. And I note that on his 
behalf the company concerned puts forward a very large number of different reasons as to 
why this policy might have been mis-sold. Whilst I dont doubt Mr F himself may genuinely 
and honestly believe now that the policy was mis-sold, Im afraid I find the reasons put 
forward on his behalf as somewhat contradictory.
For example, there is a conflict in that his signed complaint form alleges he worked below 
the 16 hours per week needed to become eligible for PPI. But he himself says later that he 
was a full time employee and this seems to be corroborated by information held about his 
mortgage. Its also alleged on his behalf that he was pressured into taking the policy out but 
theres no information to suggest how this was done.
Nevertheless, Ive started off by thinking widely and carefully about whether Mr F ever 
agreed to take the PPI part of the policy out. The sale was over 16 years ago now and so its 
not particularly unusual that Halifax no longer has the paperwork available. However, its 
sent me screenshots of its computer system and in my view these tend to show PPI was 
discussed. Mr F also says himself that he was told the policy might be useful if he lost his 
job, so overall, I think there was a discussion where the PPI was recommended to him.
I also note that as well as PPI cover, Mr F took out a life policy and CIC. I think hed have 
known that these other types of insurance werent compulsory, so I think theres a strong 
suggestion here that he wanted certain forms of protection with his new mortgage. The 
TMPP rolled up these elements into a single product so on balance, I think its therefore 
more likely that he knew he had a choice about the PPI element too and that he agreed to 
the policy. I accept that after such a long time he might not remember or indeed agree with 
this now. But I think it's more likely Halifax got his consent.Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr F because Halifax recommended this to 
him as part of an advised sale.
I think it was suitable and I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well 
already have had some sickness protection with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt mean the 
cover wasnt suitable for him. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against his home. So the consequences of not being able to make 
the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed 
to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if hed needed to claim. In my experience, this 
period is for longer than many PPI policies that were sold at the time and it was for much 
longer than the protection provided with his job.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mr F, but I think its 
more likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of the 
TMPP he had agreed to. I think he probably had enough information on which to make an 
informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F. But to uphold his complaint Id need to think it was more 
likely he never gave his consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont 
have that evidence present in this case and I think its more likely he tailored the cover to suit 
his particular needs of the time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman