DRN-2097107
The complaint
Mr R says Interactive Investor Services Limited, trading as Interactive Investor (II), wrongly 
declined his request to hold a deposit bank account in his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) in 2019; and, as a result, directly caused a delay to the liquidation of particular 
stocks within the SIPP and a financial loss arising from the delay. He claims compensation 
for his financial loss and for personal costs.
What happened
A summary of key facts, along with a summary of some of Mr Rs core claims, is as follows:
Mr R opened his II account in February 2017. II was the platform provider for his 
SIPP. He says a major reason he opened the account is because holding bank 
deposit accounts within the SIPP was permitted on the platform.
On 8 November 2017 II sent an emailed notice to Mr R confirming that it had decided 
to break ties with his SIPP provider at the time (Lifetime SIPP Company Limited 
(Lifetime)) and to appoint a new SIPP provider (Barnett Waddingham (BW)) for its 
platform. The notice also confirmed that he could transfer (out) his SIPP and follow 
Lifetime to a different scheme and platform, or he could remain with II and have his 
SIPP transferred, at no cost and with no action required from him, to BW. He opted 
for the latter and remained with II.
On 26 July 2019 Mr R telephoned II; he explained a time sensitive need to liquidate 
particular stocks within his SIPP and the associated need to deposit the cash 
proceeds in a bank account within the SIPP; he sought assistance in setting up a 
bank deposit account within the SIPP; he says II indicated that this was 
impermissible as such an account could not be held within the SIPP; he disputed this 
and asserted that the opposite was the case;  he says II maintained that a bank 
deposit account could not be held within the SIPP and suggested to him that he 
consider moving his SIPP to another provider that permitted such a holding.
Mr R says the above conversation ended with II inviting him to provide details of the 
bank deposit accounts he was considering and promising to help if it could. He 
provided the relevant information on 29 July 2019 and asked for prompt confirmation 
that he could proceed with the stock liquidation he had explained  which he did not 
receive.
On 2 August 2019 II re-confirmed to Mr R that it could not help him with his request 
and that holding a bank deposit account in the SIPP was not permitted on its 
platform. 
Mr R continued to dispute the matter and appears to have done so in the context of 
an informal complaint, conveyed during one of the telephone conversations that took 
place. II looked into the points of dispute he raised and between 5 and 6 August 2019 
it fed back to him that holding a bank deposit account in the SIPP was permissible at 
the time he opened his account and up to the transfer from Lifetime to BW however, 
thereafter, it was no longer permitted as the new SIPP provider did not allow such a 
holding within its SIPP. Mr R disputed this too and referred  as he presently refers  
to notice of the transfer in 2017 which assured him of a seamless business-as-usual 
transfer without changes. II nevertheless repeated and retained the position that a 
bank deposit account SIPP holding was not permitted. 
Upon his request, II set up a formal complaint for Mr R on 6 August 2019. He was not 
certain that it had been done, so he submitted a complaint directly on 7 August 2019 
 within which he also gave notice of being forced to consider an alternative SIPP 
provider. He appears to have started to do that  that is, transfer to an alternative 
SIPP provider and platform  around 9 August when he began to liquidate the 
relevant stocks. He appears to have finished the liquidation on 12 August 2019 and 
he says the proceeds were placed in bank deposit accounts held within the SIPP with 
his new provider when the transfer was completed. He claims a loss of around 
£35,000 resulting from the delayed liquidation and lost market price opportunity. 
II did not uphold Mr Rs complaint and it continues to dispute it. It concedes that bank 
deposit account SIPP holdings were permitted at the time Lifetime was the SIPP provider, 
but it says that was no longer the case after transfer to BW. When it responded to the 
complaint in 2019 it referred Mr R to copies of the Key Features Document (KFD), Terms 
and Conditions (T&C) and Investment Terms of Service (ITS) for the SIPP that were 
available after the transfer to BW and that were relevant to the SIPP post-transfer. It cited 
contents in the KFD that said only eligible investments available from II (and shown on its 
website and in the ITS) could be held in the SIPP; it quoted contents in the T&C that said the 
same and also confirmed that non-standard investments were not eligible; and it confirmed 
that bank deposit accounts were not eligible investments.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He issued an initial view concluding that 
the complaint should not be upheld. A somewhat extensive and detailed exchange then 
ensued between him and Mr R. They debated the findings within the view, prompted by     
Mr Rs disagreement with those findings and with the investigators conclusion. In the end, 
the investigator retained the same conclusion. Overall, he mainly found as follows:
The T&C is unclear with regards to classifying bank deposit accounts as ineligible 
investments for the SIPP; but an accessible search function on IIs website provided 
confirmation of what could be held within the SIPP; the T&C made clear there had 
been changes and enough, overall, was done by II at the time of the transfer to 
indicate there had been changes; the T&C also made reference to the website in this 
respect (where bank deposit accounts were previously included but had been 
removed upon the transfer); and it is reasonable to expect that Mr R should have 
informed himself of the changes at the time.
Primarily, SIPP providers are entitled, and have discretion, to determine the assets 
their SIPPs can hold; at the outset, on 26 July 2019, II told Mr R that a bank deposit 
account could not be held in his SIPP; evidence confirms this was accurate; on that 
date he was given alterative options to hold the account outside the SIPP or to 
transfer to a provider that allowed a SIPP to hold the account; Mr R challenged this 
on the date and continued to do so on 2, 5 and 6 August 2019 and each time he was 
given the same response.
It was Mr Rs decision not to pursue the alternative options on/from 26 July when he 
was told what IIs position was. In the same context, it was also his decision to 
suspend the relevant liquidation at the time. His actions therefore broke any chain of causation that, he claims, begun with II. In the absence of evidence that IIs position 
on the ineligibility of bank deposit accounts for the SIPP was inaccurate, it cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for the financial loss Mr R claims.
Overall Mr Rs main objections and points were as follows:
The T&C was unclear on eligible investments and it is unreasonable to expect that 
such information should have been searched for through the websites search 
function  instead, it should have been clearly declared by II in a notice. In the 
alternative, there is evidence that the website includes cash as eligible for the SIPP, 
so this covers the bank deposit account that he sought. He disagrees with the 
investigators view that the latter is distinct from the former. He says  As cash 
(either as simple savings accounts or sub 30-day deposit accounts) meet the 
requirements of the terms  [II] should have offered them to me as an eligible 
investment when I contacted them on 26th July 2019.
There was/is no requirement within the T&C for him to confirm over the phone 
whether (or not) a cash investment option was available.
Primarily, the notice from IIs CEO at the time of the transfer in 2017 was that no 
changes were to be applied so, from then and onwards, he was entitled to rely on 
this and to rely on knowledge that bank deposit account holdings were and would 
continue to be permitted in the SIPP. This should be given priority in this services 
findings and, arguably, should be a main positive finding.
Further main findings should be that II either  should have made  cash 
investment option available to [him] upon request or that it  declined by mistake to 
action [his] request to invest in deposits accounts. II could not reasonably have 
removed bank deposit accounts from its list of eligible holdings without due notice to 
SIPP holders like him. No such notice was given to him.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr As complaint. On balance, I agree with the investigators main findings, 
as summarised above, and I incorporate them into this decision.
As stated above, the investigator and Mr R engaged in a detailed debate over the findings. 
The strength of feeling in Mr Rs arguments is evident. I assure him that I have not 
disregarded that strength of feeling and that I have given due consideration to all the 
submissions he made. I have also attempted, above, to summarise key points from his 
arguments in the debate. 
However, the task before me is not to dwell on the debate and is not even to determine it. 
The task before me is to determine Mr Rs complaint and whilst the debate is be a part of 
what has happened to date, it is not the main subject matter for me to address  Mr Rs 
complaint is the main subject matter. As such, my findings relate to the complaint as he has 
presented and, where relevant, I have also treated some of the aspects of the debate.
I find as follows:Mr Rs complaint essentially asserts that II is responsible for the financial loss he 
incurred as a result of the delay  between 26 July 2019 and 9/12 August 2019  in 
executing the relevant stock liquidation in his SIPP. He says this delay resulted 
directly from uncertainty over where the liquidation proceeds would be deposited; 
that said uncertainty resulted directly from IIs failure to allow him to set-up and hold a 
bank deposit account in his SIPP when it should have done so; and that, in the 
alternative, said uncertainty resulted directly from II mistakenly declining his request 
to set-up and hold the bank deposit account in his SIPP. This is the complaint to 
address.
What II should have done can be considered by reference to the terms, conditions 
and arrangements that applied to the SIPP in July 2019. Relevant to this is the fact 
that those terms, conditions and arrangements were a combination of the terms Mr R 
agreed when he opened his account in February 2017 and those he implicitly agreed 
around November 2017 when the transfer from Lifetime to BW happened  and when 
he accepted the new regime for his SIPP by opting to remain with II.
It is not in dispute that bank deposit accounts were eligible holdings within the SIPP 
when Lifetime was the SIPP provider. I note Mr Rs claim that this was an incentive 
for him in opening the SIPP. I have not seen evidence that he sought to set-up such 
a holding before November 2017 and it does not appear that he sought to do that 
between November 2017 and July 2019. 
I make the above point to set the context for the following passages in Mr Rs 
submissions to this service  An unfortunate outcome of updating the platform was 
that all secure communications from opening my account in February 2017 up until 
8th February 2018 were no longer available to view. No hard copies of the terms or 
key features documents were provided when I opened my SIPP account in February 
2017. ii simply stated in my account opening letter that all documents were available 
on their website. At the time this did not concern me as I had reviewed all of these 
documents on-line in detail and was happy to enter into a contract for their services. 
and
On 9 August 2019 I called the customer support line and spoke to John and 
requested that ii forward copies to me of all documents that constituted the 
agreement at the time of my opening a SIPP. 
The above quotes show that Mr R was not aware of the terms for the SIPP on IIs 
platform in July 2019 and the same was the case even before then  from the 
inception of his II account. In addition, and as previously stated, there appears to 
have been no previous attempt on his part to hold a deposit bank account in the 
SIPP. This calls into the question the basis upon which he adopted what appears to 
have been an insistent position during the events in July and August 2019.
What I mean is that Mr R does not appear to have had a basis to insist, in 
July/August 2019, that II should allow the bank deposit account SIPP holding that he 
sought. He did not know the relevant terms, did not know what II should or should not 
allow in the SIPP and, it appears, he had no experience of a previous comparable 
request. Overall, on balance and in terms of the events in July/August 2019 and the 
argument that II should have allowed his request, I do not consider that Mr R had 
reasonable grounds to hold an insistent position at the time. I consider this an important finding with regards to his duty to mitigate the matter, irrespective of 
whether (or not) there was a wrongdoing by II, and I address this further below. 
In terms of holding and sustaining the same position at present, I agree with the 
investigators findings. Despite Mr Rs best points it is, ultimately, evidence of the 
terms, conditions and arrangements that applied to the SIPP on IIs platform in July 
2019 that counts. Said evidence shows that bank deposit accounts were not eligible 
for the SIPP at the time. I consider that the investigator competently explained why 
Mr Rs reference to cash and to cash being eligible for the SIPP fell short of 
establishing that bank deposit accounts were eligible. 
In the context of investment, cash exists in a variety of forms  the investigators 
explanation already gave examples of this, so it is not necessary to repeat the same. 
In Mr Rs case, there was a need for clear and express confirmation that bank 
deposit accounts were eligible for the SIPP on IIs platform. No such confirmation 
was in the T&C or website. Even if there is merit in Mr Rs argument that II should 
have included such confirmation in its terms and/or website, the fact remains that it 
did not. For the sake of clarity, I do not comment on the merits of such an argument 
because it is not necessary to do so. What happened in July 2019 was an attempt by 
Mr R to use IIs platform service to set-up a bank deposit account holding in his SIPP 
and, unfortunately for him, the service (and the terms for the service) did not allow for 
that. Whether (or not) the service/terms should have allowed for that is arguably 
irrelevant and is beyond the remit of this service  it is not within this services 
powers to dictate to firms the sort of service they should provide.
Mr Rs alternative argument that II mistakenly declined his request for the bank 
deposit account holding falls away when faced by the facts  the same facts 
mentioned above. The official(s) he spoke to on 26 July 2019 and thereafter declined 
his request because such a holding was not eligible for his SIPP on IIs platform. II 
was not mistaken in this respect. Its official(s), supported by its terms, declined his 
request with the correct reasons.
I now address what I consider to be a pivotal aspect of Mr Rs complaint. 
Considerable focus has been placed on arguments about what II should or should 
not have done. However, on balance, I consider that the factual sequence of events 
illustrates the real reason why he liquidated the relevant stocks at the delayed time 
that he did. In my view, the reason is that he delayed in mitigating the matter and II 
cannot reasonably be blamed for that.
At the outset, during the call on 26 July 2019, Mr R was told by II that a bank deposit 
account could not be held in his SIPP and he was told to consider an alternative 
provider for that purpose. The matter was drawn out, up to his complaint on 7 August 
2019, only because he did not accept what he had been told at the outset. As I noted 
above, he did not have reasonable grounds to hold such an insistent position at the 
time, given that he was unaware of the relevant terms and appears to have had no 
previous experience of setting up a comparable account in the SIPP. It follows that 
he ought reasonably to have mitigated the matter from the outset, especially as II 
essentially prompted him to do so by telling him to consider an alternative provider on 
26 July  which, by 7 August, is what he says he started to do.
Having begun his mitigation on 7 August 2019, Mr R then liquidated the relevant 
stocks between 9 and 12 August. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that II owns or shares any responsibility 
for any of the financial loss Mr R has claimed. Even if he felt the need to challenge 
what he was told by II at the outset, I have not seen evidence of anything said or 
done by II at the time that prevented him from taking alternative steps to achieve the 
time sensitive stock liquidation he was pursuing. In fact, I repeat, II did the opposite 
and told him to consider an alternative. On 26 July 2019 he could have complained to 
II if he wished but, at the very least, he should have taken steps to transfer to an 
alternative provider if, as it appears, he was not prepared to compromise on his 
request. I am not persuaded that it was reasonable for him to have delayed such a 
decision. He was not certain, at the time, that II should permit the bank deposit 
account SIPP holding or that the officials refusal of his request was mistaken. He 
could not have been certain because he was unaware of the relevant terms on the 
matter and had no previous experience. As such, he had no fair reason to believe, or 
to expect, that IIs position would change  in which case, he had no fair reason to 
delay mitigation of the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman