DRN-3213282
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out sufficient checks when
transferring his pension to an occupational pension scheme (Scheme A) that was
subsequently suspected of being involved in pension liberation.
What happened
Scottish Widows says it has a record of Mr C phoning it in August 2012 noting his imminent
intention to draw his pension benefits. Scottish Widows replied with a projection of benefits
to age 55 noting that he wasnt able to draw a pension until that age. He was aged 53,
earning £25,000pa as a supervisor and did not own his own home or have any other
pensions or investments.
Mr C then says that he was cold-called by an unregulated firm, who arranged a face-to-face
meeting and recommended he transferred his existing Group Personal Pension to
Scheme A. No details of what Scheme A was or how it would be invested were given, but he
was offered an upfront cash sum of £1,000 to make the transfer.
On 12 November 2012, he transferred about £14,600 from Scottish Widows to Scheme A.
The Pensions Regulator (TPR) later acted on reports of suspected pension liberation and in
September 2013 the High Court appointed new trustees to operate Scheme A.
The new trustees identified that most of Scheme As assets were invested within an offshore
wrapper in high-risk assets overseas, which were determined to have little or no value. They
are continuing to pursue other parties involved in arranging the investments and have not
been able to value Mr Cs pension benefits as a result. They are also seeking to obtain
assistance from the Fraud Compensation Fund on the basis that losses have been suffered
by the scheme from an act of dishonesty. They indicate that such a claim may take a
number of years to resolve.
Mr Cs representative says that Scottish Widows ought to have identified that warning signs
were present in this transfer that put Mr C at significant risk of financial loss and the
associated tax liabilities of making unauthorised payments. It failed to communicate with him
clearly and act in his best interests in accordance with the Financial Services Authority
(FSA)s Principles and Rules  or check whether the transfer met statutory requirements.
The representative claims that even though Scottish Widows received a number of near-
identical transfer requests from different intermediaries within a short space of time, and
incomplete paperwork, it proceeded with the transfer very quickly and gave no warnings
whatsoever. Had Scottish Widows complied with its obligations, Mr C says he would have
ensured he took independent financial advice and, as a result, not made the transfer.
Alternatively, Scottish Widows would have established that the scheme was not legitimate
and Mr C did not, as a result, have a statutory right to transfer to it.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It says that the main check that was
expected at that time was to see that Scheme A was correctly registered with HMRC. It
wasnt required to make contact with Mr C to ask him about his transfer. However it believed
that if one of the following things had been immediately apparent from the transfer request, it
would have flagged it at the time:
- If the scheme administrator indicated they were advising Mr C on the transfer, which
would have been a conflict of interest as they were not regulated by the FSA. (Noting
that if they were only acting as a scheme administrator, they did not need to be
regulated by the FSA.)
- If Mr C had informed Scottish Widows he was cold-called, offered an incentive or that
his reasons for transferring were to gain early access to his pension.
Scottish Widows considered Mr Cs representative was attempting to apply subsequent
industry standards to the time of this transfer with hindsight. It added:
At the time of receiving the request to transfer this pension in October 2012, we held a
list provided by The Pension Advisory Service (TPAS) of specific schemes that the
industry were not to allow transfers to. These were circulated within our business and this
specific transfer database was added to as and when we were notified of them. To
provide clarity on this request, [scheme administrator] and the associated [Scheme A]
were not on our list.
Scottish Widows sent Mr Cs representative a cheque for £150 to apologise for its delay in
responding to the complaint. As the representative considered Scottish Widows should do
more, it referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator noted that industry awareness of pension liberation had been increasing
since February 2012 as a result of press releases from TPR at that time. But she said that
Mr Cs representative couldnt expect Scottish Widows to apply the specific industry
guidance that existed from February 2013 to a transfer that took place in October 2012.
Mr Cs representative didnt agree. In summary, they said:
- The speed at which Scottish Widows transferred Mr Cs pension meant it couldnt
confirm it was compliant with statutory transfer rules or its obligations to Mr C under
the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business (COBS) rules.
- As a substantial FSA regulated business, Scottish Widows was well placed to identify
the risks involved in the transfer and ought to have raised these concerns with him.
- Alternatively, Scottish Widows should have refused the transfer because there
were very significant concerns as to what type of scheme [Scheme A] was purported
to be and whether it was a valid scheme at all.
-It ought to have been clear to Scottish Widows, given Mr Cs circumstances and his
dependence on his existing pension scheme, that it was against his best interests to
transfer a secure and mainstream pension into an alternative pension scheme of any
sort.
My provisional decision of 17 November 2021
As agreement couldnt be reached, I first issued a provisional decision on 17 November 
2021 to explain my findings. That decision follows in full below.
What rules or guidance was Scottish Widows expected to follow at the time of the transfer?
As Mr Cs policy was a personal pension, Scottish Widows was regulated by the Financial
Services Authority (FSA, subsequently FCA) in its operation. There have never been any
specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks transferring providers need to make before someone
can transfer from a personal pension.The FSA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to. Firms must
always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance from the FSA/FCA in a
particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension liberation. The most
relevant principles (in the PRIN section of the rulebook) to this case were:
- Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 3  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
- Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
As Mr Cs representative has mentioned, a firm must also act honestly, fairly and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client, which is known as the
clients best interests rule at COBS 2.1.1R in the handbook.
The FSA had issued a number of warnings on its website in June and July 2011 about the
dangers of what it referred to as pension unlocking. This included that consumers might be
cold-called by unregulated advisers and encouraged to release cash from their pensions
ahead of retirement. At the time, the FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and TPR
(which regulated occupational pension schemes) to address this.
In turn, TPR confirmed on its website in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and
FSA on pension liberation  and that theyd identified £200m of customers funds had been
affected by up to that point. Both FSA and TPR mentioned on their websites in March 2012
that they were warning consumers to be vigilant and were working to prevent and disrupt
liberation. As Scottish Widows has mentioned, TPAS also appears to have begun sharing
lists of schemes suspected to be involved in this.
I think its clear from this that Scottish Widows would have been aware that liberation was a
problem affecting the industry. And it hasnt disputed this  it says that at the time, if it had
reason to believe Mr C was being advised by an unregulated party, had been approached
out of the blue or was attempting to gain unauthorised access to his pension, it would have
acted. I think taking such action, if these issues were already apparent to Scottish Widows,
would have been consistent with the principles and rules Ive mentioned above.
But its important to note that the awareness promoted by both FSA and TPR, internal
industry watchlists, and potentially its own experience of transfers that had turned out
poorly, were the only real sources of information Scottish Widows had as to the extent of this
problem. As no formal guidance had been circulated it was a matter for its own judgement
how to interpret this information in a way that adhered to the FSAs principles and rules.
TPRs own guidance (the Scorpion campaign) wasnt rolled out until February 2013  in
other words, after Mr C transferred. That wasnt guidance issued by FSA/FCA itself - so it
wasnt set out specifically by reference to firms PRIN or COBS obligations either. This
represented a step-change in how all businesses were expected to approach pension
transfers after that point. It was also endorsed by the FSA, so it would clearly have been
relevant had Mr Cs transfer taken place later on.
Whilst the representatives original complaint to Scottish Widows makes a point of saying it
isnt applying the Scorpion due diligence requirements to this case, its notable that the
particular warning signs it considers Scottish Widows should have identified are largely
drawn from that campaign. For example: from investigating addresses at Companies house,
gathering further information from the consumer directly to assess the risk of liberation,
checking how recently the receiving scheme was registered (rather than whether it wasregistered) and investigating the geographical location of the employer/scheme and its
relationship with the member.
The representative ties this back to PRIN and COBS. Whether I can fairly say these rules
should have led Scottish Widows to carry out a specific investigation on the transfer, to
protect Mr C from possible liberation, largely depends on how likely it was viewed at the time
that any particular transfer was at risk of this activity. I say this because there was always
the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up in indiscriminate enquiries. And I note that at
this stage, the regulators and HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to
find out more about the problem.
So on balance, I dont agree its reasonable to give the FSA principles and rules the context
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Mr C transferred.
TPR seems to have eventually decided that regulators and other agencies couldnt tackle
the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was necessary. But that
wasnt the position at the time of Mr Cs transfer. I dont think Scottish Widows acted unfairly
or unreasonably on this occasion by proceeding with the transfer in the absence of any
obvious signs of liberation in Mr Cs request, or from industry intelligence it received.
Mr Cs representative has also mentioned COBS 4.5.2R as requiring Scottish Widows to
give a fair and prominent indication of any relevant riskspresented in a way that is likely
to be understood by, the average member of the group to whom it is directed. It has
compared the expectations of due diligence required in this situation with that of self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) operators on the investments to be held within a SIPP. I
dont consider this is a correct reading of Scottish Widows obligations here.
COBS 4.5.2R is a general rule about the quality of information regulated firms provide when
providing information in relation to their designated investment business. I cant fairly say it
requires Scottish Widows to assess or explain the risks of another pension scheme it isnt
operating. I can see its relevance to a SIPP operator which knows the specific investments
that are about to be made in that SIPP, but here Scottish Widows wasnt involved in any
investments Scheme A might go on to make.
Was how Scottish Widows processed the transfer consistent with the rules and guidance?
Although this wouldnt have been paperwork Scottish Widows saw (or would ordinarily need
to request), Mr Cs representative has shown us that when he completed the transfer forms
in front of an agent at his home on 18 October 2012, both he and the agent signed a
statement confirming Ihave not been given any legal or financial advice by the Agent
The scheme administrator, who stated that it acted for Scheme A, then wrote to
Scottish Widows requesting Mr Cs benefits be transferred on 23 October 2012. It enclosed
a copy of Mr Cs letter of authority, Scheme As HMRC registration letter dated
30 September 2012, and provided Scheme As bank account information. However as
Scottish Widows discharge form wasnt enclosed, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr C directly on
24 October to request the same.
On 29 October Mr C signed and returned that form after phoning Scottish Widows to check
its requirements. Although the receiving schemes sections of that form hadnt been
completed, it appears that Scottish Widows accepted this (in combination with the schemes
previous request) as a sufficient basis to transfer.
Ive considered the representatives point about the earlier contact Scottish Widows had from
a different intermediary. That intermediary was (or purported to be) a different scheme
administrator and in addition to a request for a transfer quote it noted, The client has alsogiven permission for all monies to be transferred to [administrator]. Two largely identical
requests were sent from that same administrator on 10 and 24 September 2012  and
Scottish Widows then replied with a quotation on 28 September 2012.
In its final response to the complaint Scottish Widows said we had no reason to look at
previous correspondence held on record as we hadnt previously received any pertinent
correspondence about transferring the pension away; just a request for paperwork and
information to be sent. Whilst that isnt entirely right  because the first administrator
appeared to request both information and to transfer  Scottish Widows would have been
entitled to not (yet) regard these as valid transfer requests and hence I can see why they
were not logged as such on its system.
I say this because the paperwork only appears to provide Mr Cs authority to request
information and not to transfer. It would have seemed that the administrator was taking the
usual preliminary step of requesting the transfer value and discharge paperwork needed for
Mr C to give that instruction later on.
The difference with the subsequent scheme administrators request is that the attached
authority from Mr C did request a transfer, and it enclosed sufficient evidence of HMRC
registration for the request to be genuine. Whilst Scottish Widows didnt yet have its own
requirements (the discharge form), it treated this as an actual transfer request and supplied
a further copy of the discharge form directly to Mr C. I think this was reasonable in the
circumstances, as it was entitled to proceed on the basis that the discharge form may have
been overlooked rather than insisting the whole transfer was re-started.
Mr Cs representative argues that the repeat requests from different parties provided
intelligence that Mr C might be a potential victim of a scam, which should then have fed
through to subsequent requests. I can see why it considers this, but I think this is also
argued from a position of hindsight  given that there was no specific guidance at the time
on how to mitigate against the risk of scams. There were also material differences between
the requests and I dont think Scottish Widows would reasonably have thought that they
were related at the time.
I cant fairly say that Scottish Widows would have known that Mr C had been cold-called,
was receiving unregulated advice or was at heightened risk of liberating sums from his
pension. The nature of the request to transfer coming from the receiving scheme wasnt out
of place. As the third party appeared to be carrying out administration for the receiving
scheme, it wouldnt have appeared that it was giving Mr C advice. Scottish Widows also
made contact with Mr C directly (rather than any third party) to provide the discharge forms,
so it was clear he was aware his benefits were being transferred.
Overall, Im satisfied that the overarching requirements under the FCA Principles and COBS
2.1.1R were adequately met by the steps Scottish Widows says it took: to check Scheme A
was HMRC registered, didnt appear on any watch lists circulated within the industry, and
there was nothing in the requests as made to suggest they were suspicious. I think the steps
Scottish Widows took would also have been consistent with good industry practice at the
relevant time.
I have no reason to doubt that the scheme didnt appear on a watch list so soon after it had
been registered  noting also that before the Scorpion campaign, the shortness of the time
between registering the scheme and transferring hadnt been specifically highlighted as a
concern. In fact, the concerns about Scheme A which the representative suggests were
obvious could only have been identified by detailed investigation: an investigation which TPR
undertook and didnt act on until September 2013 by removing Scheme As trustees. There
wasnt an evident need for Scottish Widows to undertake that level of investigation itself, if itwas satisfied that Scheme A met the requirements for a transfer to another registered
pension scheme.
Partially completed paperwork
The representative mentions that some of Mr Cs paperwork was insufficiently completed. I
havent seen a fully completed copy of the discharge form, and Scottish Widows confirms
that none exists. In effect, Mr Cs sections of the form were completed but it wasnt passed
to Scheme A for it to complete its sections. That seems to be because Scheme As request
to transfer was originally made without this form. Ive carefully considered whether
Scottish Widows acted wrongly in accepting the form on that basis.
Section B provided space to enter a date for Mr Cs final contribution to the scheme, where
contributions were still being paid at the time of transfer. However Scottish Widows records
show that Mr Cs plan had been paid up since September 2011, so it wasnt necessary for
this part to be completed.
Section C requested the name, address and bank account details of the receiving scheme.
However all of these details had already been provided in the administrators covering letter
which stated it was acting for Scheme A, and supplied Mr Cs letter of authority. So I dont
consider it was necessary for Scottish Widows to insist this information was duplicated on
the discharge form. However section C went on to ask for the following confirmation:
That the transfer was going to a scheme registered according to Part 4 of the
Finance Act 2004;
The HMRC Pension Scheme Tax Reference (PSTR);
The schemes normal retirement age;
The signature and title/designation of a person representing the trustees or
administrators, confirming that the scheme agreed to accept the transfer.
In my view the first two items were satisfied by Scheme A providing its actual HMRC letter of
registration (its possible the format dates from before it became commonplace to insist on
seeing the letter of registration). Scottish Widows informs me that the normal retirement age
would have been relevant if Mr C had a protected early pension age, which he did not. This
leaves the absence of a specific agreement from the receiving scheme on the discharge
form itself that it would accept the transfer.
Looking at the earlier letter Scottish Widows received from the scheme administrators, I think
this largely serves that requirement too. Although it was signed pp, it carried the authority of
a named member of staff representing the scheme and it was implicit in the fact the scheme
was requesting the transfer, that it was agreeing to accept the transfer proceeds.
The main purpose of a discharge form, as the name suggests, is to discharge
Scottish Widows liability to pay a pension to Mr C  but in this case the form also served the
dual purpose of providing all the information necessary to make the payment to the receiving
scheme. But I consider it would have been overly bureaucratic for Scottish Widows to insist
that confirmation it had already received by another means had to be re-entered onto the
form. Nor can I see that it would have made a difference to the outcome: its highly likely
Scheme A would simply have completed the form if asked to do so, and Mr Cs benefits
would still have transferred.
Scottish Widows made the transfer on the basis that Mr C had a contractual and statutory
right to it. That being the case, it wasnt able to block it for the reasons Mr Cs representative
suggests and given the less-advanced state of industry practice on due diligence at the time.I dont, as a result, find the time taken to make the transfer unreasonably short. The
representatives expectation of Scottish Widows to identify that the transfer wasnt
appropriate for Mr C would be in keeping with Scottish Widows acting as his adviser  which
clearly it was not, and had never given any undertaking to be.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr Cs representative said it had no further comments to make.
We havent received a response from Scottish Widows to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further comments for me to consider. I remain of the view as 
explained above that Mr Cs complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman