DRN-2714178
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with his property insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited as it has declined a 
claim he made to it when he found a leaking burst pipe at his property.
What happened
In 2020 Mr A was renovating his property. The property wasnt being lived in at the time.
In late April Mr A had a plumber attend to give a quote for work. The plumber found a leaking 
pipe, which then burst whilst he was assessing it. He switched off the water and replaced the 
pipe  but there was water damage to the surrounding area, including a small patch of the 
kitchen floor/cellar ceiling having fallen in.
Mr A made a claim to Fairmead. A loss adjuster conducted a video assessment call with 
Mr A on 27 April 2020. In a follow up phone call Mr A was told the claim was being declined. 
Fairmead said the policy contained an endorsement which required Mr A, when the property 
was unoccupied and the water on, to keep the heating system at a minimum constant 
temperature of 15 degrees centigrade. Fairmead explained that as Mr A had not complied 
with the endorsement, the claim was declined.
Mr A complained to us. He said the heating was set to 15 degrees centigrade in order to 
make it into a hospitable environment for the work to be carried out and ensure that the 
plastering and paint work would dry. He said he couldnt provide copy bills to show this as 
the property has a token meter, and he couldnt find any receipts to evidence top-ups.
Our investigator asked Fairmead what evidence it had regarding the heating being off. The 
loss adjuster said Mr A, during a phone call which occurred after the video call, had reported 
the heating hadnt been on at the property. Our investigator wasnt persuaded this was 
sufficient proof that the heating had been off. So she felt Fairmead had acted unfairly by 
declining the claim. She said it should re-consider it. Fairmead disagreed with the findings 
and the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I noted the discrepancy between what Mr A had told us and what the loss adjuster reported 
being told. I felt this discrepancy needed further investigation and asked our investigator to 
make some enquiries. In response Mr A set out some further detail about the situation at the 
property prior to the plumber finding the leaking pipe.
Mr A said that at the start of 2020 the heating had been on. But when work started the gas 
had been switched off because it hadnt been required for the work. Mr A further said that he 
had stopped topping the meter up in February 2020, following a change in the utility account 
holder, and the gas at the property had been switched off shortly thereafter. Mr A said he 
couldnt get proof of usage from the utility provider from the period before he became the 
account holder.
The complaint came to me for review. I felt Fairmead did need to re-consider the claim but 
my reasoning differed to that set out by the investigator. I also needed to take into account 
the new information provided by Mr A. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision.
Fairmead said it agreed with my decision. Mr A said he was happy with it but asked whether 
my findings meant Fairmead would have to settle the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Mr As property was unoccupied at the time of this loss. Because it was unoccupied there 
was an endorsement which required him to do certain specific things. Of importance here is:
Operate the heating system at a minimum constant temperature of 15 degrees centigrade, 
or the gas and water must be turned off at the mains and the water system drained down.
The water at the property was on. So, in order to comply with the endorsement, Mr A should 
have kept the heating on. But it is now clear to me that certainly as of February 2020 he did 
not do that. And, given what Mr A has now told us, I think its likely he did tell the loss 
adjuster the heating wasnt on during the phone calls they had. So Im satisfied that Fairnead 
rightly concluded that Mr A had acted in breach of the policy endorsement. 
But a breach of an endorsement by itself doesnt mean an insurer can fairly and reasonably 
decline a claim. The breach has to have been likely to have affected the loss which occurred 
in some way. And, if the insurer wants to rely on a breach of an endorsement to fairly and 
reasonably decline a claim, it is for the insurer to show that the breach was likely material to 
the loss. 
Here, Fairmead has relied on Mr As breach of the endorsement to decline the claim. But it 
hasnt considered the next step of the process  whether that breach was material to the 
loss which occurred. So, at this stage, Im satisfied that Fairmead acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when it declined Mr As claim in the way that it did. 
In answer to Mr As question, I am not reasonably able to say, at this time, that Fairmead 
must settle this claim. Rather it needs to resume its consideration of it, as though the issue 
over the breach of the unoccupancy endorsement had never arisen. This puts Mr A back in 
the position he always would have been in if not for Fairmeads unreasonable action  with 
Fairmead fully assessing his claim against all the terms and conditions of the policy, rather 
than it being dismissed at first glance. 
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to re-consider the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to carry out my direction set 
out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman