DRN-2350696
The complaint
Mr J complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let him reject 
a faulty car.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr J acquired a second-hand car costing £ 24,000 funded by a deposit of 
£1,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. It was some two years 
old and had covered 10,100 miles.
Mr J noticed a rattle coming from the exhaust and he took it back to the dealer. He has 
produced invoices from a main the dealer which details the following visits:
26 July 2018 23,206 miles No fault found
31 August 2018 24,918 miles No fault found
17 May 2019 30,335 miles Rattle identified. Replaced rear back box
4 June 2019 30,335 miles Replaced tail pipe trim
5 July 2019 30,949 miles Replaced flap motor
Mr J has said he made other visits to the dealer. When the fault was identified in May 2019 
the car was just out of warranty and he had to pay £100 towards the cost of the repair and 
the work was guaranteed for two years. When the July 2019 repair was carried out, he says 
he was told that he would have to pay for any further repairs. He says he took it to another 
garage and was told the whole exhaust system could be replaced for a sum in excess of 
£2,000. There seems to be a slight divergence in the detail of the timeline of events between 
BMWFS and Mr J, but nothing I consider to be material.
He complained to BMWFS and it responded to say that it believed the first time a fault was 
recorded with the exhaust was in November 2018 over year after he acquired the car. It 
didnt consider rejection was appropriate given the length of time he had the car.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Mr J told this service that the fault was still 
present, but I have seen no supporting evidence. He also said that this was a common fault 
with the particular model.
Our investigator noted the car had been in Mr Js possession before the first repair was 
carried out. But he considered there was clear evidence that there was a fault. He thought 
this was common fault with this model and he didnt think a failure at around three years of 
age was reasonable. He concluded that on balance the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. He recommended rejection.
BMWFS didnt agree and asked for evidence that the fault was present at the point of sale. It 
said that given the mileage covered by Mr J it hadnt affected his usage of the car. Our 
investigator took the view that the exhaust should have lasted longer without the need for 
repair. He also didnt think the fact Mr J had been able to use the car had any bearing on the 
fault. Mr J was asked for further information which he provided and if he was willing to 
provide a current report from a garage to show the fault was still present. He said that the 
information on the internet showed this was common fault and he didnt think a report was 
necessary. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I noted Mr Js car was second hand and although it had a relatively low mileage some wear 
and tear was to be expected. It was clear that there was a problem with the exhaust and 
several repairs were effected. Mr J says it remains faulty, but I had seen no supporting 
evidence. I noted the car passed its MOT on 31 August 2020 having done 36,151 miles. 
While a MOT test may not identify an exhaust fault it shows show the car was roadworthy 
and the mileage shows that Mr J continues to use it.
I noted the circumstantial evidence that Mr J had provided from the internet. These links 
showed that some cars of the type he has have had exhaust problems. While I appreciated 
Mr J considers this to demonstrate that his car had an inherent fault at the time he acquired 
it I am not so persuaded. I didnt believe all cars of this type had such faults, but that didnt 
mean that his was one of those. I accepted it has had faults, but I was not convinced they 
were present at the point of sale given the time they took to manifest themselves.
I wasnt convinced that the faults were of such a magnitude that rejection is merited. Mr J 
was able to make use of the car and has reported no other issues other than the exhaust 
making a sound, apparently on cold days. He has driven it for some 26,000 miles and while I 
could see that the exhaust noise may have been irritating, I didnt see it as a rejection 
matter.
I was more inclined to suggest that BMWFS pay him £200 for the inconvenience he has 
suffered. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Mr J pointed out his deposit was £1,000, not 
£100 and I have amended this detail in the background section. I apologise for the error, but 
it has no bearing on my decision. He also noted the sum of £200 was low since there was 
evidence to show this was common fault and the fix would be considerably more expensive.
Given both parties agree my provisional decision it remains unchanged.
Putting things right
BMWFS should pay Mr J compensation for the trouble and upset he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to pay Mr J £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman