DRN-4190362
The complaint
Ms P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed her mortgage account 
without her agreement. Ms P wants Halifax to re-open the account and retain her title deeds.
What happened
Ms P had a mortgage account with Halifax with a remaining balance of £83.27. Ms P paid off 
most of her mortgage by 2007 leaving a small balance. Her deeds were held with Halifaxs 
Deedstore scheme. On 17 January 2023 Ms P paid off most of the remaining balance due 
leaving a balance of £10. On 26 January 2023 she got a letter from Halifax telling her the 
account was closed and the paper deeds would be returned to her. Ms P contacted Halifax 
and was told that accounts are closed when the balance reaches a certain limit although she 
wasnt told about this previously. On 27 January Halifax told Ms P that it wouldnt be 
reopening the account and that the deeds would be sent to her.
Halifax said that it operated a Deedstore scheme whereby customers who had paid off their 
mortgages could if they left a small balance retain their paper deeds. Halifax says that this is 
a facility that it no longer is continuing to offer and all Deedstore accounts are being 
reviewed. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as there 
was no need for Halifax to hold the deeds. Ms P disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax, as a mortgage company is a lender that lends money based on the security of 
property. It secures its loan by taking a charge over a customers property. Traditionally the 
customer signed a charge document and that was held by Halifax along with the customers 
deeds during the course of the mortgage and the deeds returned to the customer when the 
mortgage was paid off. But following a process known as dematerialisation lenders may no 
longer require the actual paper deeds as the Land Registry will record who owns the land 
and also record the lenders charge on the land.
As Ms P took out her mortgage before this dematerialisation, her deeds were held by 
Halifax. Halifax offered a facility whereby if the customers mortgage was coming to an end 
and they left a nominal amount in the account - up to £125 - they would have the facility to 
leave the deeds with the Halifax. But Halifax is now withdrawing this facility. Ms P says that it 
shouldnt do so for a number of reasons including she hasnt paid off her mortgage and the 
terms require her to get a redemption statement before the mortgage is redeemed and she 
never asked for that.
It seems to me that the only reason that Halifax originally held the deeds was not as a facility 
to Ms P but to protect its security. The deeds belong to Ms P and if Halifax no longer 
required the deeds, they should be returned to Ms P. Halifax says that Ms Ps mortgage is 
paid off and its returning the paper deeds to her. Ms P says she didnt pay it off. But I would 
have thought that Halifax could at any time return the deeds as it only held them as security 
against non-payment and if it thought it didnt need this security it could have returned the 
deeds at any time. They are Ms Ps documents.
Ms P says that if she wished to pay off a mortgage she would require a redemption 
statement,. But a redemption statement is only necessary if there is uncertainty about the 
amount of the mortgage balance but in this case that balance has been clear for some 
years. I also note that the final balance was written off by Halifax and not in fact redeemed 
by the customer.
There is a separate issue that Halifax was performing a secure holding service for the deeds 
- the Deedstore scheme - and that Ms P had a reasonable expectation that this service 
would continue. Halifax indeed appears to have provided this facility, but Ive seen no 
document confirming that Halifax would keep the facility open indefinitely and indeed Ms P 
wasnt paying for the service. So, I cant see why Halifax couldnt bring it to an end which in 
fact it did. It seems to have been brought to an end in Ms Ps case fairly abruptly, but I do 
consider hat she was given a reasonable period to expect the return of the deeds and had 
time to organise any alternative arrangements for storing the paper deeds that she wished to 
make. 
From the information and documents Ive seen, my view in that Halifax could have returned 
the deeds to Ms P at any time. Deedstore was a facility offered by Halifax, but it wasnt open 
ended. There was no promise that it would always be available and so it seems to me that 
Halifax could bring it to an end at any time it wished. So, in doing that, I cant fairly say that 
Halifax did anything wrong and I cant fairly uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman