DRN-3219506
The complaint
Miss A says Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) irresponsibly 
lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Everyday provided to Miss A in January 2019. Miss A 
borrowed £5,000 and she was due to make 48 monthly repayment of £233.64. The total she 
would repay was £11,214.72. Miss A has been unable to fully repay this loan. 
  
Our adjudicator upheld Miss As complaint because she thought Everyday shouldnt have 
given her the loan. This is because Miss A already had a significant amount of other debt 
when she started the loan, and so she wouldnt be able to make the new loan repayments 
sustainably. And this would still be the case even if Miss A used the new lending for debt 
consolidation. 
Everyday disagreed, it said that her debt repayment to income ratio was only 35% after she 
had repaid some of her other debts. And her credit card mayve taken longer to repay if she 
had she only paid the minimum that was due. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss A would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have shown that Miss A wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss A and 
that as a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss As ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss A. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Miss A undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss A. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint.
Everyday has provided evidence to show that before lending it looked at two months of bank 
statements and did a credit and employment check. It also asked Miss A her about her 
income and expenditure. Based on those checks Everyday thought it was fair to lend.
Its not disputed that Miss A had taken a large amount of other credit before she took this 
loan and some of this was high cost credit. She also had significant credit card balances 
which were also an expensive from of borrowing. Everyday says that this new loan was to 
help Miss A repay her existing lending and reduce her reliance on more expensive forms of 
credit. It was to repay two credit card balances that Miss A had. Ive looked to see if what 
Everyday says is reasonable. 
I can accept this debt consolidation may have meant that these debts were repaid sooner, 
and so may have been less expensive overall, although I cant be certain of this. 
But our adjudicator outlined the new loan repayments were slightly higher than the amounts 
Miss A was repaying to these credit cards. So, if money was tight for Miss A then the new 
loan would potentially cause her problems. And I think this was the case here. 
Miss A had an income of £1,413 and her normal expenditure was recorded as being £827. 
Leaving her £586 a month. But she would repay at least a further £500 towards credit overall 
when the new loan was started, if she paid the minimum amount to her remaining credit 
cards. So, the amount of spare money Miss A had had was very low over the four-year term of the loan. And she would have very little left over for unforeseen expenditure, or anything 
else she may need above her ordinary bills. I dont think this was reasonable here.  
So, I dont think its fair to say that the information Everyday had makes it safe to assume 
Miss A would be able to repay enough of her existing debts for this loan to have made a 
difference. It looks like her financial situation would have remained precarious after this loan. 
So, I dont think that Everyday could say with any degree of confidence that taking the new 
loan would allow Miss A to make the loan repayments sustainably. And I dont think it was 
responsible to lend. 
And this was borne out going forward. Miss A was unable to repay this loan and I 
understand a significant balance still remains on it. So, its clear that this loan didnt improve 
her circumstances enough to make a lasting difference. So Everyday needs to put things 
right.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Everyday must now:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss A as payments towards the capital amount of 
£5,000.
If Miss A has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to her with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss A.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. Everyday must 
give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right for Miss A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman