DRN-3495935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid a claim 
for a cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to ERGO include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a single trip travel insurance policy in January 2020. The policy was
provided by ERGO and Mr and Mrs C purchased a Premium level of cover, which included
cover for Catastrophe.
Mr and Mrs C were due to travel abroad in June 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. On 17
March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised
against all but essential travel abroad due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs Cs airline cancelled their upcoming flight and the FCDO advice
remained in force on their intended travel dates, so they were unable to travel. Mr and Mrs C
received a refund from their airline and made a claim for their remaining cancellation costs
under their policy with ERGO.
ERGO said Mr and Mrs Cs claim wasnt covered, as their reason for cancelling wasnt one
that was insured under their policy. ERGO also said Mr and Mrs Cs policy contained an
exclusion relating to regulations set by the government of any country.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C brought a complaint to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She initially said, although the
claim wasnt covered under a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, she
thought it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to accept Mr and Mrs Cs claim under the
Cancellation section of their policy. After considering further submissions from ERGO, our
investigator said she thought it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to instead accept Mr
and Mrs Cs claim under the Catastrophe section of their policy.
ERGO didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so Mr and Mrs Cs complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in April 2022. 
In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand the situation that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was unprecedented and
exceptional. And, I understand that Mr and Mrs C had little choice but to cancel their trip for
reasons which were outside of their control. However, insurance policies dont cover every
situation and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in
return for the payment of a policy premium.
ERGOs obligations to Mr and Mrs C under its contract with them are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in their policy documentation.
These say, at page 23 under the heading Cancellation, that ERGO will pay for certain costs
if a trip is cancelled for one of the following listed, insured reasons:
1. Your accidental Bodily Injury or Illness or death (or that of a Relative, a Close
Business Associate or a friend with whom You have arranged to travel or stay).
2. You or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay, having being
subject to compulsory quarantine or being summoned for non-foreseeable
compulsory military and/or jury service or as a witness in a court of law (except in a
professional capacity as an expert witness) during the period of the trip.
3. Your pregnancy, where confirmation of Your pregnancy by a hospital or registered
medical practitioner is announced to You after You have bought the Policy and
booked the trip provided You cancel Your trip within seven days.
4. Your redundancy (qualifying You to claim for payment under current Redundancy
Payment Legislation) and that of any person with whom You intend to travel provided
that such notice of redundancy is advised to Us within 14 days of its announcement.
5. Your private dwelling becoming uninhabitable following fire, storm or flood, or Your
presence being required by the police following burglary at Your private dwelling
occurring at any time after We have accepted this insurance.
Although Mr and Mrs Cs policy provides cancellation cover in the event of them being
subject to compulsory quarantine, I dont think I can fairly say this was the reason why they
didnt go on their trip. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs C were obliged to
stay in total confinement in their home during the time their trip was due to take place.
Instead, I think the reason for Mr and Mrs Cs claim was because the FCDO was advising
against all but essential travel to their intended destination and/or their airline cancelled their
flight due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Neither of these are listed, insured
reasons for making a cancellation claim under Mr and Mrs Cs policy. So, I dont think their
claim is covered under the Cancellation section of their policy.
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict interpretation of
the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me
to ask ERGO to do so here.
I note that ERGO quoted a policy exclusion relating to government regulations when it
declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim, but no such exclusion appears in the policy wording which
Ive been provided with. However, the Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy
contains an exclusion for:
9. Any costs  arising from a Catastrophe.
The policy defines Catastrophe as including a medical epidemic. For the avoidance of
doubt, Im satisfied that a pandemic (which Covid-19 was declared to be on 11 March 2020)is simply a more wide-ranging version of an epidemic. So, I think the definition of
Catastrophe can fairly be considered to include pandemics as well as epidemics.
Therefore, not only is the reason for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Cs trip not covered as a
listed, insured event under their policy, I think the exclusion Ive quoted above applies to the
circumstances of their claim anyway.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy, but I dont
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found
themselves in.
Mr and Mrs C held Catastrophe cover. But, this section of the policy only comes into force
when a policyholder has already started their trip. And, the Catastrophe section only covers
additional costs  not unused costs, which is what Mr and Mrs C are claiming for.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms
and conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which
I could fairly ask ERGO to accept their claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
So, I dont currently intend to direct ERGO to do anything further.
ERGO didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs C responded and said they had 
nothing further to add to what they felt was my unfair conclusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with my findings but, in making an independent and 
impartial decision, I need to be fair to both ERGO as well as to Mr and Mrs C. 
As neither party has raised any additional points nor submitted any new evidence, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 Leah Nagle
Ombudsman