DRN-2301167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC:
took too long to tell them it wouldnt be able to proceed with the £6,000 further 
advance that theyd applied for on their buy-to-let mortgage; and
switched the mortgage from interest-only to repayment in error.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is Barclays policy not to instruct a valuation until a formal application has been made and 
has been reviewed. Thats a commercial decision it is allowed to make, and not one Id 
interfere with. It is just unfortunate that it took so long to get Mr and Mrs Qs application to 
the point where the valuation could be instructed, and that the property was then down 
valued to the extent the further advance application was declined. 
Theres a cost to sending a surveyor out to a property so I can understand why Barclays 
feels it is best for that cost to not be incurred until it is satisfied the application can proceed 
(subject to the valuation, of course). To do things the other way around, there could be 
valuations carried out (with the underlying costs of that) for applications that never had a 
chance of proceeding for other reasons.
No one is entitled to borrow money, and if an application is made there are time factors 
involved in that. As Barclays didnt do anything wrong in not agreeing to take Mr and Mrs Qs 
further advance application forward, I dont award any compensation for the time and trouble 
Mr and Mrs Q were put to in providing the information Barclays needed to assess their 
application. If a person wants to apply for a mortgage, they need to provide the information 
required by the lender, thats normal and not something for which compensation is due for if 
the application doesnt succeed.
Barclay admitted it made an error when it changed the repayment type of Mr and Mrs Qs 
mortgage, so I dont need to make a finding on that. All I need to do is decide whether what 
Barclays has already done to put that mistake right is fair and reasonable.
Barclays paid £524 (the difference between the £636 that was taken, and the £112 it should 
have been) to Mr and Mrs Q on 20 December 2019 to cover the December 2019 payment. It 
also paid £550 compensation at that time.
It paid a further £524 to Mr and Mrs Q on 17 January 2020 to cover the difference in the 
January 2020 payment, and £526.70 on 21 February 2020 to cover the difference in the 
February 2020 payment.
Due to systems limitations Barclays couldnt change Mr and Mrs Qs mortgage account back 
to interest-only sooner, which is why three payments were made at the higher amount.
Mr and Mrs Q said other direct debits werent paid due to the error, but when asked by our 
investigator they were unable to provide any evidence of that. Thats unusual as that 
information would be readily available on the statement (or online transaction history) for the 
bank account in question. Mr and Mrs Q also said their credit ratings were shot to bits but 
again provided no evidence to support that when asked for it. As Mr and Mrs Q havent 
provided us with evidence to show any other direct debits not being paid  or their credit 
ratings being affected - we cant award any compensation for those things.
In any event it should only have been the December payment that was the issue as when 
the December 2019 overpayment was refunded, Barclays also paid an additional £550 
compensation. So that £550 was available to cover the January higher amount (of £524) for 
the period between when the January payment was made and when the extra £524 was 
refunded. And it would have done the same for the February payment.
Mr and Mrs Q have said £550 compensation isnt enough, but theyve not just had £550.
They received £550 as a payment of compensation, but Barclays didnt reverse the higher 
payments off their mortgage account, it simply paid the extra amounts to Mr and Mrs Q as 
compensation. So, whilst Mr and Mrs Q have had their (roughly £1,500) extra payments 
back, those extra payments are still credited to the mortgage account. This means their 
mortgage balance is around £1,500 lower than it should be, thus saving them interest every 
single month going forward. All in all, this means Mr and Mrs Q are actually £2,000 better 
off as a result of the mistake.
Mr and Mrs Q have referred to the mistake as being illegal and a breach of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) legislation. Its not clear what part of the legislation 
Mr and Mrs Q believe Barclays breached here as none of Mr and Mrs Qs personal 
information was released to an unauthorised third party, nor did Barclays process their data 
without good reason. The closest area is the principle of accuracy, but that relates to the 
accuracy of personal data (eg names, addresses etc) not whether a mortgage is held on an 
interest-only or repayment basis. In any event, even if it could be argued there was a breach 
of GDPR and/or the law then Barclays put this right by refunding the extra payments, 
switching the mortgage back and paying compensation.
Were not the regulator. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent 
punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is 
consider the impact of a businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of 
compensation weve made in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that £550 
compensation  plus the refunds of the extra payments made - is more than generous. For 
that reason I make no further order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
paid fair compensation. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021 
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman