DRN-3300802
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have declined her claim for storm 
damage to her property. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms house was designed and built in the early 1960s. They bought it in 1962 
and say they have maintained it well ever since. Although this is a joint policy, I will refer to 
Mrs M throughout, as she has brought the complaint to us on behalf of herself and her 
husband who is unfortunately unwell. 
Mrs M had a House Guard extra insurance policy with Ageas. 
Following some storm damage to a window in August 2020, a builder advised Mrs M that the 
damage had exposed a problem inside, which was that the window surround was made of 
concrete and the core was disintegrating. The remedial work to the window to correct this 
cost £2835.
 
Mrs M then needed to complete the same repair work to the other five window surrounds in 
the house, as they too were disintegrating and so in February 2021 she made a claim on the 
buildings insurance policy to cover this unexpected expense. 
Ageas declined the claim, and in their final response they said that this claim couldnt be 
classed as storm damage as there had been no weather conditions at the relevant time that 
met the policy definition of storm damage. 
 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. She said that she felt this unusual situation should be 
covered by the policy.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ms complaint and he thought that Ageas had 
acted fairly in declining the claim.
  
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have to consider whether Ageas have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
I am sorry that Mrs M and her husband find themselves in this situation, with a significant bill 
for structural repairs, and I understand that it must be very worrying for them, especially in 
their current circumstances. 
 
However, having considered all of the evidence carefully, I havent upheld Mrs Ms 
complaint, and I will explain why. 
 
In order for there to be a valid claim under a buildings insurance policy, the damage must 
have occurred as a result of an insured peril. These perils, or events, are specified in 
every policy and include reasons such as theft, fire and storm damage. If the damage being 
claimed for cant be said to be as a result of one of these perils, then there can be no valid 
claim from the start. 
Mrs Ms policy booklet covers her for damage as a result of fire and earthquake, riot, 
vandalism, damage caused by moving objects, storm, flood, subsidence, leaking or freezing 
water and leaking oil, and theft.  
I can see from the information provided by Mrs M that it was weather conditions that initially 
exposed the problem with the window surrounds, but that she understands that the 
disintegration of the concrete window surrounds actually took place over a longer period of 
time without her knowing. It may have been as a result of poor design; unsuitable material 
being used or just the ongoing weather conditions over the years.
However, when Mrs M rang up to speak to Ageas about her potential claim, the call handler 
advised that from the circumstances that Mrs M described, the only peril under which a 
claim could possibly be made was storm damage. I dont think Ageas have acted unfairly 
here as Mrs M had described a storm as being the reason the damage came to her 
attention, and none of the other perils in the policy would be applicable.  
The call handler then checked the weather conditions in August 2020 to see whether there 
was adverse weather which could be classed as a storm within the policy definition. After 
checking this, she declined the claim as there were no storm conditions. 
The policy defines storm as strong winds of over 55mph, or damage by extreme rain, 
snow or hail. Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour. Snowfall is extreme if 
12 inches or more falls in a 24-hour period. Hail is extreme if it exceeds 20mm in diameter. 
Ageas have provided us with copies of the weather reports from August 2020 which show 
that these weather conditions werent satisfied. 
I have also checked the weather reports for August 2020 using our own resources, and I am 
satisfied that there were no weather conditions during August 2020 which would come within  
the policy definition of storm. 
So for the reasons above, I am satisfied that Ageas have fairly declined Mrs Ms claim.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint, and Ageas Insurance Limited need not 
do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman