DRN-3886273
The complaint
Miss P complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In September 2016, Miss P purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
her home. Miss P financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that 
was repayable over ten years. The system was installed in November 2016. She received a 
small refund because fewer panels would fit on her roof than initially planned. 
In September 2021, the CMC made a claim on Miss Ps behalf under section 75 and section 
140 of the Act to Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made said the financial benefits 
from the system would make it a self-funding system which would pay for itself within the 
term of the loan. This had turned out not to be true, and it was this misrepresentation that 
had induced Miss P to enter into the contract and made her relationship with Ikano unfair on 
her.
Ikano issued a response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss P or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred a complaint about Ikanos response to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened and they didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Miss P was told the  system would be self-funding through the income and savings it 
would generate, and this would at least cover the monthly repayments.
Miss P was in financial difficulty and wouldnt have agreed to the purchase if she 
knew it was not self-funding. 
Miss P says there was no detailed discussion of the sales documents. 
The salesperson likely earned commission from the sale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 140 
gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between a creditor and debtor 
was unfair to the debtor. The court will look at the relationship as a whole including things 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before or after the making of the credit or 
any linked agreement (such as the sale of solar panels purchased with a point-of-sale loan).
As Miss P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
and 140 apply to this transaction. This means that Miss P could claim against Ikano, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she 
could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. And she can claim against Ikano if her 
relationship with it was unfair. 
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss P 
and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement, contract, and SEM calculation sheet.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The contract sets out key information about the system including its basic price. It shows that 
Miss P was funding the purchase entirely through finance without any up-front payment such 
as a deposit. 
The SEM calculation sheet shows the expected first year benefits of the system and was 
completed and signed in the same meeting as the contract and credit agreement.  
Im satisfied that these documents formed a central part of the sales process and are 
therefore relevant, alongside Miss Ps recollection of the sale, when considering if there have 
been any misrepresentations. 
Miss P says she signed the documents on a tablet during the meeting and was sent copies 
sometime later, although she cant remember exactly when. It seems likely these were 
provided to her prior to the installation of the system, given this was not until about two 
months later. 
Information on the documents
The SEM calculation sheet set out the benefits of the system as follows:I think this is clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to be just £286.45. 
The basic price of the system is shown on the contract and credit agreement as being 
£9,210. So, paying this over ten years (without any interest) would cost £921 per year  
much more than the first-year benefit. 
The credit agreement shows the actual cost to Miss P would be £98.78 per month with a 
total amount payable of £11,852.24. This would equate to £1,185.23 per year. Again, much 
more than the first-year benefit. 
I think it is clear from these documents that the system would not be self-funding. And I think 
they were central to the sale. So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
misrepresented the solar panel system in the way Miss P has alleged, while providing 
documents that make clear that wasnt the case.
The CMC has made some suggestions that the loan was unaffordable. But Im satisfied that 
Ikano made appropriate checks at the time and had no reason to be concerned about this. If 
the salesperson received commission on sales they made (and I dont know if they did in this 
case), that does not automatically mean the relationship between Miss P and Ikano was 
unfair on her or that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the benefits of the system. 
The CMC also made some comments questioning the fairness of the refund Miss P received 
for fewer solar panels being installed than expected. But this was not part of the initial claim 
that Ikano responded to, so I will not comment on this. 
Summary
Im satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Miss P to enter into the contract for the system. Nor have I found any reason to conclude 
that the relationship between Miss P and Ikano was unfair on her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
