DRN-2684949
The complaint
Miss T complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) have given her an unfair valuation for 
her car following a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
Miss T was involved in a non-fault accident and her car was written off.
esure accepted a claim for the accident, and offered her £13,281 as the market value 
for the vehicle.
Miss T said this offer was unfair and too low. She provided adverts for similar cars 
shed found online that were on sale for a higher price. And she said her car had low 
mileage and this should increase the valuation. She also said the valuations the trade 
guides esure had used werent reflective of the actual retail value of cars.
Miss T said a fair value would be around £14,500. And shes said the sum she 
receives will be reduced by the £600 excess which she wouldnt get back until the 
third party admits fault.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying esure had provided the market 
value for the car based on recognised trade guides.
Miss T disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
esure cash settled this claim to the market value of the car. It said this valuation 
was taken from motor trade guides which are based on cars sold for the month of 
loss, with consideration to the vehicles mileage, pre-accident condition, and the 
specific vehicle type, as well as any vehicle options that may be fitted to the vehicle. 
This is clearly explained within the terms of Miss Ts policy.
Our service doesn't value vehicles ourselves, instead we check whether the valuation 
the insurer has placed on a car is fair. We will typically consider various recognised 
trade guides alongside any other evidence provided  such as adverts as Miss T has 
highlighted. But we will usually put more weight on the trade guides as cars don't 
often sell for the advertised price  and are often priced to allow for negotiation. 
Miss T has seen the valuations from each of the trade guides so I wont repeat these 
again here. And esure took an average of the three valuations closest together and 
discounted a fourth outlier. It then offered an additional £237 as a gesture of goodwill 
which it said reflected a sum it couldve taken off the offer in light of existing damage 
to the car. 
Im satisfied esures offer is in line with the relevant trade guide prices and reflects 
the condition and mileage of Miss Ts car. And Im not persuaded that any online 
adverts would outweigh the accuracy of these guides in this case. 
Miss T said there was no existing damage to her car, but esures revised offer had 
removed this deduction. So, this doesnt change my mind. 
I understand Miss Ts point about her excess reducing the offer in hand. But she 
wouldve always needed to pay this in line with her policy terms. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman