DRN-1470794
 
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) handled 
Mrs Ts employment claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
All references to L&G, include its agents and claims handlers. 
Background
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their policy to cover Mrs Ts legal costs 
in an employment dispute. Mrs T was still employed at that time and was going through an 
internal grievance procedure with her employer. 
L&G told Mrs T to come back when the outcome of the final grievance hearing was known. If 
the claim was covered, it said would appoint one of its preferred solicitors to act for her. 
In early March 2019, Mr and Mrs T got back in touch with L&G as the grievance process had 
concluded and Mrs T had resigned. Mr and Mrs T sent L&G further information about Mrs 
Ts claim and requested cover under the policy for their chosen solicitors to act. When they 
hadnt heard back after five days, Mr T raised a complaint regarding the delay.   
L&G reviewed the claim and said there was cover under the policy but that before the 
issuing of court proceedings, there wasnt freedom for Mrs T to choose her own solicitors. 
Because of this Mrs T agreed to use L&Gs preferred solicitors, so L&G appointed them to 
act for her under the policy terms. It also informed Mrs T that any costs shed incurred to 
date wouldnt be covered.
A few weeks later, Mr T got in touch with L&G to raise a complaint about the solicitors. He 
said they were taking too long to make a decision and he was concerned it would prejudice 
his wifes claim. These concerns were passed on to the solicitors to respond to. 
Around the same time the solicitors said the claim wasnt covered under the policy because 
they didnt think it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, which was a requirement for 
cover to be provided. 
In early June 2019, Mrs Ts own solicitors got in touch with L&G. Theyd obtained a 
barristers opinion on the claim which put prospects at 51% to 60%. And they asked that 
L&G put cover in place for them to act with their fees being covered under the policy. L&G 
did agree to this, and cover was put in place from mid July 2019.
In July 2019, L&G responded to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. It acknowledged there had been 
some delays, and it offered them £150 in compensation for this. Mr T raised a further 
complaint. He said the response had been addressed to Mrs T, when it was he who had 
raised it. L&G considered this and offered a further £50 compensation for its error. 
Mr and Mrs Ts current complaint to this service is that:1. L&G restricted their choice of solicitor by saying the policy only covered a preferred 
solicitor before proceedings were issued, which they believe is incorrect;
2. The preferred solicitor was unable to offer suitable advice and their opinion of the 
claim was found to be incorrect by their barrister;
3. Theyve incurred legal costs with their chosen solicitor before L&Gs acceptance of 
the claim, as they weren't getting any assistance under the policy. They want L&G to 
cover these costs;
4. There have been delays and general customer service concerns in the way L&G 
handled the claim. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said L&G was entitled to rely on its 
 preferred solicitors advice. And that once it had a positive legal opinion from Mr and Mrs Ts 
barrister, it put cover in place and agreed to fund Mrs Ts chosen solicitors to act for her. The 
investigator also didnt think L&G had acted incorrectly in its handling of the claim and that 
the offer of £200 fairly compensated Mr and Mrs T for the small delays and customer service 
issues identified. 
L&G offered to backdate cover to the date it first received a positive assessment from Mrs 
Ts barrister, which was in early June. Our investigator relayed this offer to Mr and Mrs T. Mr 
and Mrs T have rejected this and said they disagree with the investigators view of their 
complaint. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im wont be upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Freedom of choice
Ive been provided with a copy of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. Under the heading appointing a 
professional advisor, the policy explains that until such time that L&G agree legal 
proceedings need to be issued, it will choose the professional advisor to act on a claim. The 
policyholder will have the freedom to choose their own representative at the point L&G 
agrees that legal proceedings have to be initiated. 
This is a common term of legal expenses insurance policies. And its consistent with the 
relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies 
(legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry  in Mrs Ts case, this was 
the employment tribunal. 
Prior to issuing a claim in the employment tribunal, Mrs T was required to complete ACAS 
early conciliation procedure. Because of this, she didnt have freedom to choose her own 
solicitor until this concluded. So I take that view that L&G correctly informed her that it would 
only be able to cover legal costs of its own preferred solicitors at that point.Prospects of success
Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses insurance policies that any intended claim 
has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr and Mrs Ts policy is no exception. For civil 
cases that means that the policyholder will recover losses or damages or obtain any other 
legal remedy L&G has agreed to or make a successful defence.
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as 
they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
L&G did this. The preferred solicitors advice was that Mrs Ts claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of being successful.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T later sought the opinion of their own barrister. But that doesnt 
mean the preferred solicitors advice was wrong. A legal opinion is just that  an opinion. We 
often see different legal opinions on a claim- its not usual. And if all lawyers agreed, there 
would never be a need for a case to be decided by a court.  
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs T have some concerns over L&Gs preferred solicitors, I 
wont be addressing these. As our investigator has explained, our service isnt able to look 
into complaints about solicitors. They have their own regulator and codes of conduct. I 
understand Mr and Mrs T have already complained to these solicitors. If they remain 
unhappy, they should refer their concerns to the Legal Ombudsman, if they havent already 
done so.
In this complaint Ive considered what is within my remit - namely whether L&G acted fairly 
and in accordance with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy when it appointed a preferred 
solicitor and relied on its advice. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that it did. 
Pre-incurred costs
Mr and Mrs T say they want L&G to cover their legal costs from the outset of the claim. But 
L&G say these costs were incurred prior to the acceptance of the claim. 
The policy provides cover to pursue a legal action directly arising from a contract of 
employment. The policy defines legal action as the pursuit or defence of a civil or criminal 
action relating to an insured event. 
Furthermore, the policy excludes costs that you pay or agree to pay before the L&G has 
written to accept the claim. 
I understand that Mrs Ts chosen solicitor has represented her since the internal grievance 
procedures. I dont think this amounts to legal action so it follows that the costs associated 
with this representation arent covered by the policy. 
That having been said, Mrs T might have been covered for her own costs from the point she 
resigned. But as L&Gs preferred solicitors concluded the claim didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success at that point, no cover was available. Overall, I think that  L&G only became liable for Mrs Ts legal costs when it was in a position 
to accept her claim. It initially said this wasnt until mid-July 2019 when it agreed terms of 
business with the chosen solicitors. However it has now agreed to backdate cover to the 
date it received the positive legal assessment, which was early June 2019. It has also 
agreed to reimburse the cost of Mrs Ts barristers assessment, which I understand 
amounted to around £300 plus VAT.
I think this is fair. I say so because this is the earliest date L&G wouldve been in a position 
to accept the claim. Before that, the only legal advice it had received was that the claim 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. And as Ive explained above, it was entitled to 
rely on that advice.
For this reason, I wont be asking L&G to backdate cover any earlier than June 2019 in line 
with its offer.
Customer service and delays
As previously explained, Im only looking at L&Gs actions. I cant comment on any delays or 
customer service issues arising from the preferred solicitors conduct. 
I appreciate L&G didnt provide prompt responses to Mr and Mrs Ts claim initially. And given 
that employment cases are particularly time sensitive, I can understand the frustration this 
wouldve caused. 
L&G say it has a service standard of five working days. I can see there were occasions 
where it took slightly longer than five working days to respond. 
I think £150 compensation for these delays is fair. I say this because I havent identified any 
significant delays that prejudiced Mrs Ts claim in any way. So I think the impact to Mr and 
Mrs T wouldve been limited to some trouble and upset. And £150 is in line with what our 
service would consider reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
L&G also offered a further £50 for addressing its complaint response to Mrs T, instead of Mr 
T. I wont be asking it to do anymore than that as I dont think the letter being addressed to 
Mrs T rather than Mr T wouldve made a difference. The claim itself was after all Mrs Ts and 
both she and Mr T were involved in the administration of it. So I can understand why L&G 
addressed the response to Mrs T. Ive also noted that emails from Mr T were often sent from 
Mrs Ts email account, suggesting she was involved. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Legal & 
General Insurance Limited. 
If Mr and Mrs T would like to accept L&Gs offer which includes backdating cover to early 
June 2019; reimbursement of the barristers fees; and paying compensation of £200, they 
should contact L&G directly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman