DRN-3209809
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund £28,355.13 he 
lost when he was the victim of a scam.
  
What happened
What Mr R says
Mr R says he started to attend college in September 2015. In January 2016 he was 
approached by an associate of the college and asked if hed heard of bitcoin. Mr R hadnt 
invested before and so the person who approached him explained how it worked and 
introduced him to a company Ill call O. Mr R was told he could buy educational packages 
and with each package he bought he would receive tokens that could be used to mine coins. 
Mr R agreed to invest and was given access to an online portal which gave payment details. 
He says that he received coins in an e-wallet after each mining session and his membership 
was upgraded as he bought each package.
Mr R made the payments in the table below. All of the payments had the reference Urgent 
Transfer. Mr R has explained this was because he was told that to get the highest package 
available, he had to buy packages before the deal expired. The first payment was made to a 
different payee to the second and third. 
Date Amount Transaction type
25/01/16 £3,291.78 Online transfer
28/01/16 £9,799.22 Online transfer
04/02/16 £14,634.13 In branch transfer
Total £28,355.13
Mr R says he continued to invest without seeing any returns because he was told it was a 
long-term investment and it would be at least a year until the initial coin offering was publicly 
available. 
Mr R later found out hed been scammed when one of the founders of O was prosecuted 
abroad. He notified NatWest of the scam on 7 May 2020, but no funds remained. Hed like 
NatWest to refund the funds he lost. Mr R says that if NatWest had completed a simple 
online search in respect of O it would have seen warnings and poor reviews. He believes 
NatWest should have given him basic advice on the known scam he fell victim to and how it 
operated. Mr R also says he doesnt understand why NatWest wont refund him as he didnt 
know at the time he made the payments he was paying a criminal. 
What NatWest says
NatWest hasnt refunded Mr R as it says it hasnt made any errors. It acted on Mr Rs 
instructions and made the payments in good faith to the account details provided by him. 
NatWest also said it has done what it could to recover Mr Rs funds. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She said the payments Mr R 
made werent unusual or suspicious in appearance given Mr Rs normal account and 
payment history. She noted a number of high value payments in the period before the 
transactions to the fraudster, including one for £10,744.80 and that all except the third 
payment left Mr R with a healthy account balance. And soon after this payment was made 
Mr R topped the account up. In respect of recovery of funds, the investigator noted that the 
payments were made in January and February 2016 and the scam was reported to NatWest 
on 7 May 2020. She wasnt certain when NatWest contacted the receiving bank but noted it 
received a response on 11 May 2020 that no funds remained. Given that the scam was 
reported more than four years after the transactions were made the investigator felt that 
even if NatWest didnt contact the receiving bank on the day the scam was reported it was 
unlikely any funds remained.
Mr R didnt accept what the investigator said. In summary he said:
- He disagrees the payments werent suspicious given where the funds were sent to. 
He thinks the fact they were going to O was a clear indicator he might be involved 
with an investment company that might involve fraudulent activity. 
- Given NatWests extensive experience of this type of scam it could have uncovered 
the scam at the time the payments were made. 
- Had NatWest have asked questions it would have found out he was investing with O 
and could have instructed Mr R to carry out research, at which point NatWest would 
have realised there were numerous negative reviews about O.
- Mr R quoted BSI:PAS 2017 and in particular the section about banks having 
measures in place to detect suspicious transfers or activities that might indicate fraud 
or financial abuse. 
- Mr R pointed out hes never made payments to investment companies or 
cryptocurrency exchanges before. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 November 2021. I have reproduced below what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including the BSI code Mr R referred to in his 
submission to this service) and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Whilst I recognise Mr R is the victim of a scam and didnt know he was paying fraudsters 
these factors alone dont mean NatWest should refund him. In this case, I need to decide 
whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R when he made the 
payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered the position 
carefully. 
Did NatWest act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr R made were unusual or uncharacteristic.
First two payments  January 2016
Having reviewed Mr Rs statements for the twelve-month period before the scam I dont 
consider these transactions were unusual given Mr Rs normal account and payment history. 
In the period between 21 May 2015 and the first scam payment on 25 January 2016 Mr R 
had made five transactions for over £5,000 including one for £10,744.80. In the 
circumstances, the first payment of £3,921.78 certainly wouldnt have stood out as unusual 
to NatWest. And given that Mr R made a payment for £10,744.80 on 17 June 2015 Im also 
not persuaded that the second payment, for a lesser sum, would have looked unusual or out 
of character to NatWest. As the investigator pointed out, Mr Rs account was left with a 
healthy balance after both payments. And setting up new payees also wasnt unusual for Mr 
R. 
These payments were the first international payments Mr R made, but I dont consider this 
fact in itself means the payments were sufficiently unusual to require NatWest to take any 
further action. 
So I cant conclude the first two payments to O were unusual or out of character given Mr 
Rs normal account and payment history. In these circumstances I wouldnt expect NatWest 
to take any further action or have a conversation with Mr R before making the payments. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. For this reason, I dont consider its reasonable to expect 
NatWest to ask questions about payments that arent unusual or out of character. 
In any event, I wouldnt have expected NatWest to have known about the O scam at the time 
Mr R made his payments. Whilst there are media stories about O now, this wasnt the case 
in January and February 2016. And the Financial Conduct Authority warning about O was 
only added in September 2016, some months after Mr R had transferred his funds. 
Mr R has said that NatWest should have been suspicious because he was paying O and has 
referred to Os account being flagged. At the time, all that was required to make a payment 
was the sort-code and account number. The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account number and sort code instructed by the payer (here, Mr 
R). There was no regulatory requirement to check the beneficiary name provided. So 
NatWest wouldnt have known, and had no obligation to know, who the payment was made 
to. It follows that NatWest didnt know that O purported to be an investment company. Os 
account wasnt flagged as Mr R suggests. 
Also, it wasnt for NatWest to satisfy itself that O was a legitimate or registered company as 
Mr R suggests. What NatWest needed to do was ask Mr R about transactions that stood out 
as unusual or suspicious in order to satisfy itself Mr R wasnt at risk of financial harm. Ive set 
out above why I dont consider NatWest needed to do anything more when Mr R requested 
the first two payments be made. So I dont need to go on to consider what might have been 
discussed had a conversation taken place. 
Third payment  February 2016
Based on the evidence I currently have, the situation in respect of this payment is different. 
Mr R made this payment in branch. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest any questions 
about the transaction were asked in branch. 
By this time Mr R was making a second high-value transaction to the same payee a week 
after the last and the transaction left his account with a much lower than usual balance. The 
account balance after this payment was £205.30. In the six-month period before the scam 
Mr Rs balance was never below £1,000. It was also the third Urgent Transfer in a short 
period of time and the third international payment. So I consider the payment was out of 
keeping with Mr Rs prior account history. Given the combination of factors I have set out 
above I think NatWest should have done more when Mr R made the payment in branch.  
Had NatWest have asked Mr R some questions about the payment I believe its
more likely than not the scam would have become apparent and would have been
prevented. Ill set out why below. 
I consider NatWest should have asked Mr R the purpose of the payment, how he heard 
about it, some information about the investment itself including the rate of return and 
whether O was FCA regulated. Given what Mr R has told this service about the nature of the 
investment involving educational packages and tokens to mine coins I consider NatWest 
should have had concerns about the legitimacy of the investment. Mr R would also have 
confirmed that he didnt know about Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) registration and so 
hadnt checked this for himself. 
So, its my belief that had NatWest asked proportionate questions and given Mr R a warning 
about investment scams and in particular fake and unregistered companies he would have 
taken additional steps before making the payment  and ultimately wouldnt have made it. 
Mr R wasnt alert to the potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones 
and provide a fake platform. NatWest was the expert here and I feel NatWest should have 
done more to ensure Mr R wasnt at risk of being defrauded. I see no reason why Mr R 
wouldnt have taken NatWests warnings seriously if hed been cautioned to consider and 
check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding. Ive seen no indication that Mr R 
was so anxious to proceed that he would have ignored warnings or been unprepared to 
postpone the payment to reflect on the matter and make these further enquiries. Im mindful 
of the fact that at the time he was approached Mr R wasnt looking for an investment 
Ive also thought about whether Mr R did enough to protect himself before making the third 
payment. Im persuaded that as a first-time investor Mr R wasnt aware of the relevance of 
FCA regulation. I also dont believe that at the time he invested there were enough negative 
reviews and articles that had Mr R completed some basic checks he should have known that 
O wasnt a genuine investment company. And I consider Mr R acted reasonably in making 
the third payment when he hadnt seen any return after the first two given what he was told 
about it being a long-term investment.  Recovery of funds
Ive also thought about whether NatWest took reasonable steps to recover Mr Rs funds 
once it was made aware he was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made in 
January 2016 and the last in February 2016 and the scam was reported in May 2020, over 
four years later. I understand that Mr R didnt know he was the victim of a scam before this, 
but the delay means any recovery action was most unlikely to be successful. Im uncertain 
exactly when NatWest contacted the receiving bank but know it was told no funds remained 
on 11 May 2020. So even if there was a slight delay (and I have no reason to believe there 
was) I dont consider it would make a difference in this case as scammers usually remove 
funds within hours. 
Mr R agreed with the findings in my provisional decision, but NatWest didnt. In summary, 
NatWest said:
- NatWest expressed concern that Mr Rs complaint is being considered through a 
2021 lens. The transactions in this complaint took place before BSI:PAS 2017 and 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code and NatWests approach to the 
questions asked in branch has evolved since then.
- This was a sophisticated scam and its likely any information Mr R was provided in 
branch would have been sufficient to persuade NatWest it was a genuine investment.  
- Whilst with the benefit of hindsight O wasnt a genuine company, at the time it 
appeared to be a successful company run by a successful entrepreneur. Since the 
scam has been uncovered its been widely publicised that O used cult like methods 
to convince people to invest and manipulation techniques to dismiss warnings and 
critics. 
- There was no FCA warning at the time so its unreasonable of me to expect NatWest 
to uncover the scam. Had NatWest given Mr R a warning on fake investment 
companies he may have taken additional steps but at the time there werent sufficient 
reviews and articles to suggest O wasnt genuine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the considerations I set out in my provisional decision, which 
Ive reproduced above and which I incorporate in to this decision. Having done so, I have 
reached the same overall conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
I consider this is a finely balanced case and accept that scam prevention has improved over 
the years, but its fair to say that BSI:PAS 2017 set out what had been good practice for a 
period of time. NatWest hasnt been able to provide any evidence that a conversation took 
place in branch when Mr R made the final payment of £14,634.13 on 4 February 2016. This 
transaction was unusual for a number of reasons (which I set out in my provisional decision) 
and so I consider NatWest should have asked proportionate and probing questions to satisfy 
itself Mr R wasnt at risk of financial harm. NatWest should also have provided appropriate 
investment scam warnings.
I should be clear that I dont consider NatWest staff should have identified the full nature of 
this sophisticated scam  or that it was NatWests responsibility to conduct checks itself. But 
there were clear red flags here including the nature of the investment itself, the need to 
make urgent payments to secure the deal, the fact it was another international payment and 
the lack of regulation. Im persuaded NatWest should have discussed these aspects with Mr 
R and provided him with warnings about fake and cloned investment companies and the fact 
his money would not be returned if the investment turned out not to be genuine.  Mr R was a first-time investor who heard about the opportunity with O through an associate 
at the university he attended. He was not provided with any documents in relation to O so if 
NatWest staff had asked, Mr R would not have been able to provide any evidence of the 
proposed investment, which would have been a further area of concern. I also consider Mr 
Rs understanding of the investment was basic, as it was second-hand and he had no 
documentation, so hed have struggled to answer NatWests questions about the nature of 
the investment. The investment itself was also unusual in terms of buying educational 
packages to earn tokens to mine coins, and it would be at least a year until the initial coin 
launch.  
Its difficult to know what would have happened if NatWest had had the kind of conversation I 
think it should have at the time Mr R made the third payment. As there is no evidence that 
the conversation took place, I need to consider what I believe is most likely to have 
happened if it had. On balance, Im persuaded Mr R would have taken NatWests warnings 
seriously and wouldnt have risked losing nearly £15,000 after already investing over 
£13,000 once he knew of the red flags and the fact there was no protection if anything went 
wrong. Mr R had no experience of investing and didnt know there were significant risks in 
investing in O. From what hes told this service Im persuaded hed have trusted what 
NatWest told him about the red flags and the unusual nature of this investment opportunity 
and not gone ahead and made the final payment. This is particularly so given the fact the 
investment with O wasnt FCA regulated. 
Overall, Im persuaded NatWest should refund the final payment Mr R made.     
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive outlined above, National Westminster Bank Plc should:
- Refund Mr R £14,634.13 less any sum returned from the receiving bank;
- Add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If NatWest deducts tax from this interest, it should 
provide Mr R with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman