DRN-2931331
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the service they from Homes Made Simple Limited (HMS) 
when they got assistance from them in obtaining a new fixed rate mortgage product. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with a lender on a fixed rate product. The term of their fixed 
rate product was coming to an end on 30 June 2020 and they got assistance from HMS 
which was a mortgage broker. HMS sourced a mortgage product at 2.08% fixed for two 
years with contractual monthly payments (CMPs) of £666.78. The lender issued an offer in 
April 2020 to that effect but appears not to have received the acceptance form from Mr and 
Mrs S. The broker then contacted the lender for an update on June 10, 2020 but discovered 
that the acceptance hadnt been returned and the mortgage product was not yet in place and 
the time for acceptance of the offer had lapsed. At that stage the best available rate from the 
lender was at an interest rate of 2.57% pa fixed for two years and with an increased CMP of 
£715.44.
Mr and Mrs S say that the broker put them under pressure of time to accept this. The offer 
was dated 16 June and had to be accepted by 18 June in order to be applied to avoid Mr 
and Mrs Ss rate going on to the lenders standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs S felt 
under pressure to sign and are disappointed with the service from HMS and in particular 
missing out on a rate that would have meant them paying considerably less per month than 
they do now. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she 
didnt believe that HMS had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S are disappointed. They contacted the broker early - well 
in advance of the end of the existing fixed rate period ending - were happy with the rate and 
payments advised but now find them selves with a rate and payments they are not happy 
with. My task is to say whether this was the fault of HMS.
HMSs role was to source the best mortgage product available to Mr and Mrs S that suited 
their needs. That they appear to have done and the lender issued an offer addressed to Mr 
and Mrs S dated 15 April 2020. The term was to start on 1 July 2020 following the end of Mr 
and Mrs Ss existing mortgage product. The offer would expire on 29 April 2020 and if Mr 
and Mrs S wanted to accept the offer they would have to do so before then. Central to this 
complaint is that the lender didnt get the acceptance. I note that there was an Offer 
Acceptance Form with the offer which Mr and Mrs S were to return if they wanted to accept 
the offer. No responsibility lay with HMS to return this form, so, I cant fairly say that Mr and 
Mrs Ss failure to secure this favourable interest rate lay with HMS.
It seems that in advance of the mortgage product ending, HMS contacted the lender to 
follow up and discovered that the new mortgage product hadnt been put in place. With a 
deadline approaching, the broker made efforts to secure a new fixed rate product with the 
lender to avoid going on the SVR. This all seems rather hurried and I can understand that Mr 
and Mrs S felt rushed into a decision. But time was clearly of the essence to secure a fixed 
rate product to be in place by the 1 July 2020 as this had to be put in place - as is normal - in 
advance of that date. 
The lack of time wasnt caused by the broker as HMS had acted to secure the product back 
in April. The problem was caused by the fact that the acceptance of the original offer wasnt 
received by the lender. I can understand that Mr and Mrs S felt under pressure of time to 
accept the offer. I can see that the new offer was sent by the lender to Mr and Mrs S on 15 
June and they seem to have accepted the offer shortly after that. I can only conclude that if 
Mr and Mrs S accepted the offer, they must have been aware what that offer was before 
they agreed it and that it was higher than the previous offer. 
If Mr and Mrs S hadnt accepted the offer, they would have been put on the SVR which they 
were trying to avoid. Although the interest rate they are now on is not the interest rate that 
they originally wanted, the preferable rate wasnt available in June. But it seems that the 
mortgage product they accepted in June was the most suitable available for them at that 
time. Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest otherwise. So, in my view HMS 
did nothing wrong and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman