DRN-3333124
The complaint
The representative of the estate of Mr W, Mr B, has complained about the service he 
received from The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, after hed notified it of the death 
of Mr W. In particular, Mr B has said that Prudential caused unnecessary delays in dealing 
with the distribution of the death benefit from the pension policy Mr W held with it, along with 
expressing concerns about data protection issues and the questions it asked when 
determining the beneficiary/ies of the death benefit.
What happened
Our investigator set out a comprehensive summary of what has happened here in her 
assessment of the matter issued in February 2022. Rather than paraphrase that summary, 
with which I note neither party has disagreed, Ive broadly set it out as the background to the 
case below with some minor changes.
On 10 February 2020, Mr B notified Prudential that Mr W had sadly passed away. Mr B 
called Prudential the next day to ask if it needed a copy of the will or death certificate. 
Prudential confirmed that it would need either the original or certified copy of the death 
certificate and a copy of the will. But the agent explained that it would be writing out to him 
anyway as it would need to know if there were any dependants or close family.
Prudential acknowledged Mr Bs notification on 28 February 2020 and explained that it 
would decide to whom the death benefits would be paid as the pension fund didnt form part 
of the estate. Prudential enclosed a pension claim form for Mr B to complete and return. Mr 
B completed the pension claim form on 2 March 2020.
On 18 March 2020, Prudential wrote to Mr B and acknowledged receipt of the pension 
claim form. It also asked Mr B to provide the names and addresses of Mr Ws parents, and 
confirmation as to whether Mr W was living with anyone when he passed away.
Mr B called Prudential on 20 March 2020 as he wanted to know why it needed the names 
and addresses of Mr Ws parents. Mr B also said that Prudential had mentioned in the 
letter that it couldnt proceed as it needed the original death certificate. But Mr B said that 
he had already sent it a coroners letter confirming Mr Ws death and he didnt feel 
Prudential needed to know the circumstances surrounding his death. 
Prudential agreed to put this forward to its Bereavement Team to look into. And with 
regard to needing the names and addresses of Mr Ws parents, Prudential said it could 
pass on the addresses to the Bereavement Team but make it clear that Mr W wasnt living 
with them when he passed away - and that there was already a will on the file which was a 
legally binding document.
Mr B provided the information to Prudential on 20 March 2020 and confirmed that Mr W 
lodged with his aunt when he passed away. Prudential acknowledged Mr Bs letter on 6 
April 2020.
Mr B wrote to Prudential on 4 May 2020 as he hadnt heard anything from it. He asked 
Prudential to let him know whether there was anything outstanding or whether there was 
any additional information it required.
Mr B called Prudential on 14 May 2020 as Prudential had written to Mr Ws parents, which 
had caused distress as they didnt understand why, on the basis that Mr W had wanted Mr 
B to be the sole recipient. Mr B was also unhappy that it had asked Mr Ws parents for the 
nature of the relationship between Mr W and Mr B. Mr B wanted to know if there was 
anything Prudential needed as he thought hed sent in everything. He also believed 
Prudential were harvesting sensitive personal information about him from Mr Ws parents. 
Mr B believed this was a breach of General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) as he 
hadnt given explicit consent for it to obtain information about him. 
Prudential offered to feed the comments back to the relevant team. Prudential also 
confirmed that it had heard back from Mr Ws father, but had yet to hear back from his 
mother. Mr B asked for another letter to be sent to Mr Ws mother as she no longer had it.
Prudential responded on 16 May 2020 and said it had noted the information Mr B had 
submitted and was actively gathering the required information to make a decision on how 
payment should be made.
Mr B attempted to call Prudential on 3 June 2020 to ask if it had everything it needed to 
process the claim. Unfortunately, he was unable to access the Claims Team as it was 
busy at the time.
Mr B then called Prudential on 12 June 2020 for an update. Prudential said it had 
everything it needed from Mr B, but it was still waiting for information from other parties. 
However, it wasnt able to confirm what information it was waiting for due to data protection 
requirements. Mr B was unhappy with this as he was the one whod provided the contact 
details for Mr Ws parents in the first place. But Prudential maintained that it was unable to 
say if theyd been in touch and the only thing it could discuss was the information shared 
with Mr B. 
Prudential did apologise and explained that it had to be careful as other people may try and 
show interest in the policy to claim a stake. However, Prudential did suggest that Mr B 
contact all parties and ask them if they had responded.
Mr B sent Prudential a further letter dated 26 June 2020 as he still hadnt heard from it 
about the death benefit. He wanted an update as it had by then been over six months 
since Mr W had passed away and he didnt understand why investigations were taking 
so long.
Prudential responded to Mr B on 13 July 2020 and said it was actively gathering the 
required information necessary to make a decision on how payment should be made.
Mr B called Prudential that day as he hadnt heard anything and Prudential confirmed it 
had sent a letter. Prudential also said a letter had been sent to one of the potential 
beneficiaries to check one final detail.
On 21 September 2020, Mr B wrote to Prudential again to request an update as he 
considered that hed provided it with all the information that had been requested. Mr B said 
he was finding the matter very upsetting.
Prudential responded on 25 September 2020 and said it was required, as the 
administrator, to determine who would receive the lump sum death benefit. It said it was important that it undertake a detailed fact find before it considered each claim and the 
process, therefore, could be quite lengthy. Prudential said the claim was now being 
reviewed by its Technical Consultancy team and it was checking the information it held 
on file. In the meantime, it asked Mr B to complete and return an enclosed payment 
instruction form. 
Mr B completed the payment instruction form, which Prudential received on 30 
September 2020.
On the same day, Prudential sent a further letter to Mr B saying it was unable to 
pay the death benefits into a personal bank account. Prudential confirmed its 
decision was to pay the proceeds to Mr Ws estate and the fund value was 
£25,106. 
Prudential also requested the original or sealed copy of the grant of representation 
as the value was more than £20,000. And as it was unable to pay the benefit into 
a personal account, it asked Mr B to arrange an executors account to receive the 
payment.
Mr B called Prudential on 2 October 2020 after receiving its letter to raise a formal 
complaint. Mr B was very unhappy with the process. Mr B said that hed given Prudential 
details of Mr Ws parents but when he asked for an update regarding this, he was told that 
it was unable to provide any information due to data protection requirements. Mr B was 
also unhappy that he was told he needed to obtain the grant of probate as HMRC had told 
him that his wasnt necessary. 
He further said that Prudential had also asked him to provide account details, which he did, 
but was then told that he needed an executors account. But this wasnt highlighted to him 
at any point prior to that. 
Prudential explained that the decision to pay the death benefits had been made in favour of 
the estate, which is why it needed to be paid into an executors account. But Mr B 
explained that he was the sole beneficiary of the will, so the funds would be transferred into 
his personal account in any case. 
Prudentials representative agreed to speak to the relevant team about the grant of probate 
and why an executors account was needed in the circumstances.
Mr B received a call from Prudential on 7 October 2020 in response to his complaint. The 
agent explained that the Bereavement Team may not be able to override the requirement 
for the grant of probate, but it had enquired further of it as to why an executors bank 
account was needed. The representative also asked the relevant team to confirm whether 
this was a legal requirement or an internal process. They also confirmed that they would 
start a formal complaint on Mr Bs behalf, which would be dealt with separately.
Prudential also sent Mr B a letter on the same day explaining that it would require the 
grant of probate as the claim value exceeded £20,000. Prudential said it wouldnt take 
any further action until it heard back on these points.
Mr B received a further call from Prudential the next day reiterating the content of the 
letter. Mr B explained that he had only just been able to apply for probate after being given 
the claim value. Prudential confirmed this has already been added to the complaint as a 
potential delay.Prudential issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint on 23 November 2020. It said that 
it should have been in a position to make Mr B aware of the claim value as well as its 
requirement for a grant of probate. But it explained it was unable to confirm the final 
requirements before it had heard back from Mr Ws parents.
Prudential also confirmed that the requirement for a grant of probate is a business 
decision if the claim is above a certain value. But Prudential did recognise that it had 
caused unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim and arranged a payment of £400 for 
the service Mr B had received.
Mr B called Prudential on 27 January 2021 as it had been sent the final piece of 
information (grant of probate) 20 days ago, but he still hadnt been paid. Prudential 
confirmed that the funds had left its account that day so it could take three to five 
working days to arrive.
A further letter was sent to Mr B by Prudential on 2 February 2021. It apologised for the 
time it had taken for the claim to be settled and confirmed that £25,158 had been paid on 25 
January 2021. Prudential said it felt if it had made Mr B aware of the need for a grant of 
probate sooner, it could have settled the claim by 10 September 2020. So it added interest 
of £591.09 to the claim value that had been paid.
Mr B responded to Prudentials final response on 8 February 2021. He didnt feel the
£400 compensation took into account the upset and distress caused to him. And he 
wanted to allow Prudential the opportunity to increase this before he brought the 
complaint to our service.
A further final response letter was issued to Mr B on 24 February 2021. In summary, 
Prudential said that it was satisfied with the amount of compensation it had offered.
Mr B remained unhappy, however, and so brought the complaint to our service.
Having considered the merits of the complaint, our investigator thought that Prudential had 
made mistakes in its handling of the matter, but considered that the steps it had taken to put 
matters right had been appropriate. She said the following in summary:
Prudential should have notified Mr B of the need to obtain the grant of probate 
sooner  although Mr B was uncertain as to the reason why Prudential needed it, he 
was clearly willing to obtain it. But Prudential was entitled to request the grant of 
probate for claims which exceeded £20,000, even if it wasnt a legal requirement. 
She recognised the frustration which would have been caused to Mr B during his call 
on 12 June 2020, in which Prudential said it was unable to provide him with details 
as to the outstanding information on the case, despite providing similar information in 
a call during the previous month. She also noted that, in the same call of 12 June 
2020, Mr B had expressed dissatisfaction at Prudential having enquired of Mr Ws 
parents as to the relationship between Mr B and Mr W. However, Prudential had said 
that, when it contacts third parties, information as to the responses it receives may 
not be made available to the executor, even if it was the executor who had provided 
the contact details in the first place.
It wasnt for this service to determine whether there had been a breach of data 
protection regulations, as this would be for the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). But she in any case needed to bear in mind that Prudential hadnt disclosed 
any information about Mr B to a third party.As to Mr Bs concern about Prudential having initially insisted that an executors bank 
account be opened, Prudential had used its discretion to pay the pension funds to Mr 
Ws estate, as opposed to directly to Mr B. So the investigator understood why it had 
needed Mr B to open an executors account, but she also noted that this hadnt been 
communicated to Mr B when Prudential first requested bank details, and the money 
would in any case then be transferred to Mr Bs account. But she was pleased to see 
that Prudential had then agreed to Mr B using his personal account.
Mr B had commented that it was Prudentials stated policy to communicate in the 
same manner as documents are sent to it, but although Mr B had sent it documents 
by special delivery, it had returned them by registered post. But the investigator 
thought that Prudential had made it clear in a letter of February 2020 that it would 
return documents by recorded delivery if they had been received by special delivery. 
So it hadnt done anything wrong in that respect.
In terms of putting matters right in respect of the delays incurred, had Prudential 
communicated things more clearly then the death benefits could have been paid 
much sooner. It had eventually paid the death benefits with the addition of 
appropriate interest which was consistent with the rate this service might apply  and 
so this was a fair and reasonable approach.
Mr B was unhappy with the compensation offered by Prudential in respect of the 
trouble and upset the delays had caused to him, and the investigator said that she 
understood how Prudentials handling of the matter would have compounded a 
difficult time for Mr B in dealing with Mr Ws death. But although Mr B had said that 
the £400 offered by Prudential equated to £100 for each months delay, Prudential 
hadnt sought to pay a fixed amount in respect of this. Rather, the offer had been 
designed to reflect the upset caused as a whole  and the investigator thought that it 
was a reasonable offer.
It was unclear as to whether Mr B had accepted the offer, but if he wished to do so, 
the investigator assumed that it was still available.
Mr B responded, saying that he had accepted the £400 payment, but remained of the view 
that it wasnt sufficient to reflect the time taken to resolve matters, including the telephone 
calls and delays, which was why hed pursued the complaint. His acceptance of the £400 
sum wasnt in full and final settlement of the complaint, he added.
Mr B also referred to our website, and in particular the following guidance on compensation 
payments for trouble and upset:
An award of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake 
has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort it out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious 
short term impact.
Mr B considered that his complaint met those criteria, and he thought that the investigators 
assessment had concluded the same. As such, he thought that a figure at the highest end of 
that range - £750  would be appropriate in this instance. So Mr B requested an additional 
payment of £350.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr B, Ive 
reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
I dont think its disputed by any party here that Prudential could have handled matters 
better, and Prudential both apologised for this and offered an amount in respect of the actual 
monetary loss, along with the trouble and upset the matter would have caused to Mr B.
In respect of the first aspect, the actual monetary loss, I agree with the investigators view 
that the interest which Prudential has applied would be consistent with the type of award we 
would typically make in other similar circumstances. And its conclusion on the date that the 
death benefit should have been paid, had delays not been incurred, also seems reasonable.
But I also appreciate that this isnt Mr Bs main point of contention  his continuing 
dissatisfaction lies with the amount hes been paid in respect of the distress and anxiety hes 
said was caused by Prudentials handling of the matter. And so I need to determine, on a fair 
and reasonable basis, whether the amount offered and paid is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Prudential explained in correspondence during 2020 that it needed to undertake 
investigations as to whom it should pay the pension benefits  this was to establish whether 
Mr W had any financial dependants or interdependants, and more broadly, to ensure as far 
as was reasonably possible that it was paying the right beneficiary/ies. This is a standard 
process and I dont think Prudential acted inappropriately in undertaking it. This did involve 
contacting various parties, including Mr Ws parents, and whilst I understand Mr Bs concern 
at the nature of some of these enquiries, I dont think it did anything wrong in doing so.
Further, as with the investigator, I think that Prudential was entitled to make the decision that 
it needed the grant of probate before it could make payment, but I also agree that, had this 
been communicated sooner, unnecessary delays could have been avoided. As far as I can 
tell, Prudential informed Mr B of this requirement at the end of September 2020, some eight 
months after Prudential had first been notified of Mr Ws death, and then it was only in 
October 2020 that it explained to Mr B why it could only pay the proceeds into an executors 
account. 
It did ultimately agree to pay the pension funds into Mr Bs personal account, but the delays 
in informing Mr B of the requirements to proceed with the payment would inevitably have 
caused a not insignificant amount of distress and frustration to Mr B. 
Mr B has referred to the guidance on our website for establishing the right compensation 
amount for this type of situation, and I agree that the wording is consistent with what has 
happened here. But I also need to take into account that the payment already made falls 
within the recommended band of amounts which might reasonably be paid.
I also need to consider Mr Bs specific case and the impact which the matter has had on him. 
This clearly isnt an exact science, but whilst I do accept that the delays would have caused 
him anxiety, frustration and distress, and without wishing to understate Mr Bs own sense of 
bereavement, I do need to take into account that Mr B wasnt a close co-habiting relative  
and also wasnt financially dependent upon Mr W, and so there wouldnt have been any 
particular reliance on the pension benefits which were eventually paid.And so, overall, taking all of the factors here into consideration, I think that £400, sitting as it 
does a little above the lower end of the payment scale which Mr B has quoted, is probably 
about right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman