DRN-3936192
The complaint
Mr F complains that HDI Global Specialty SE declined a claim for removal of his dogs 
lipomas, as they say these were the result of a pre-existing condition. He doesnt agree and 
wants them to pay the claim for his dogs treatment.
What happened
Mr F has pet insurance for his dog with HDI. His policy started on 10 October 2021.
On 30 August 2022 the dog was seen by a vet as Mr F had noticed a large mass in his left 
armpit. The dog had surgery on 8 September 2022 to remove this mass and a further mass 
from the right-hand side of his sternum. Both masses were thought to be lipomas. 
Mr F submitted a claim to HDI for the cost of his dogs surgery. This was declined as HDI 
said the dog had been treated for lipomas before, from at least 2019. So they said this was a 
pre-existing condition and wasnt covered by Mr Fs policy.
Looking at the dogs clinical records HDI said hed been seen at Mr Fs vet on the 29 March 
2019, 7 November 2019, 3 September 2020, 10 September 2020, 27 May 2021, 26 May 
2022, 30 August 2022 and 9 September 2022 all for masses that were described as lipomas.
They referred Mr F to his policy wording which says Clinical manifestations resulting in the 
same diagnosis (regardless of the number of injury or areas of the body affected) to which 
your pet has an on-going predisposition or susceptibility related in any way to the original 
claim. will be treated as one loss. If the condition diagnosis by your veterinary surgeon is 
the same as a previous condition they will be treated as the same condition even if the 
problem is a different part of your pets body.
The policy goes on to say We will always treat the same diagnosis as one condition 
irrespective of when or where in your pets body the symptoms are found, even where the 
condition is diagnosed in different legs for the purpose of allocating benefits and deciding the 
start date for the condition it will be the date that the first symptom was diagnosed.
So as Mr Fs dog had been treated for lipomas and had some of these removed before the 
policy started, HDI said his condition in September 2022 was the same, and no cover could 
be provided. Mr F wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint.
In early November 2022 Mr Fs vet contacted HDI asking them to reassess his claim. The 
vet said the lipomas treated in September 2020 were removed completely. And the masses 
removed in August 2022 were in a different location, so they shouldnt be considered to be 
related conditions.
HDI provided their final response to the complaint on 4 November 2022, but they didnt 
change their mind. They maintained that as the dog had been treated for lipomas before the 
policy started, the lipomas that were removed in September 2022, were a pre-existing 
condition which wasnt covered by Mr Fs policy. 
Mr F then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold 
his complaint. She said Mr Fs dog had been diagnosed with and treated for lipomas before 
his policy started in October 2021. His clinical records first refer to lipomas in March 2019. 
And he had surgery to remove these in September 2020. Then in May 2022 the vet found 
further lipomas which were removed in September 2022. 
Our investigator felt the dogs records showed an ongoing issue with lipomas. She 
acknowledged that Mr Fs vet had said the conditions werent related, as the earlier lipomas 
had been removed completely, and the new ones were in a different area. But as Mr Fs 
policy said a diagnosis of the same condition, even if its in a different area, will be treated as 
the same condition, she felt HDI had declined Mr Fs claim fairly.
HDI accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr F didnt.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As with many pet insurance policies Mr Fs policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
When Mr F took out his cover in October 2021, he was sent his policy documentation. In 
addition to his policy terms and conditions, he was sent a policy schedule, and a statement 
of fact.  
The statement of fact provides details of the cover Mr F had selected and the information 
hed provided which was used by HDI to assess and accept the risk. He was asked to read 
the statement carefully and let HDI know if anything wasnt correct.
The statement of fact sets out a list of statements relating to the policy which Mr F had been 
asked to agree to. The statement relevant to this complaint is: -
You accept and understand that all medical conditions, illnesses or injuries, and directly 
related symptoms and/or reoccurrences of any of any of these at the point of inception of the 
policy, will not be covered.
Mr F answered Yes to this question. So I think he was put on notice that if his dog had any 
symptoms or a condition that reoccurred, these wouldnt be covered by his policy.
Mr F was also sent an Insurance Product Information Document which provides a 
summary of the key information relating to his policy. This provides a list of what is and isnt 
insured. This clearly states that pre-existing conditions that have received treatment or have 
shown signs or symptoms before your policy started arent covered.
And as HDI said in their final response letter Mr Fs policy also says that they will always 
treat the same diagnosis as one condition irrespective of when or where in your pets body 
the symptoms are found. 
The dogs clinical records show that hed first been diagnosed with lipomas in March 2019, 
before Mr Fs policy started. These were successfully removed in 10 September 2020. But 
then in May 2022 the dog was noted to have two small masses on his chest which were also 
thought to be lipomas. And on 30 August 2022 he had a large lump in his left armpit. This 
was removed on 8 September 2022, along with a lump near his sternum. Both were later 
confirmed to be lipomas. I appreciate that Mr Fs vet has said these lipomas werent a reoccurrence of those treated in 
2020, as these were completely removed, and those removed in 2022 were in a different 
position. But lipomas were a condition the dog had been treated for before, and I think that 
as well as being put on notice that pre-existing conditions werent covered, HDI made it clear 
to Mr F that a reoccurrence of a condition his dog had previously been treated for would be 
regarded as the same condition. And wouldnt be covered.
So I think HDI acted reasonably when they declined Mr Fs claim and I wont be asking them 
to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about 
HDI Global Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman