DRN-4356101
The complaint
Miss C complains through a representative that Street (UK) C.I.C irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
From the information provided, Miss C was provided with ten loans, Miss Cs borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan amount 
(£)Weekly 
repayment (£) End date
1 21/11/2013 400 12.84 17/06/2014
2 16/06/2014 400 20 01/12/2014
3 01/12/2014 500 12.58 02/09/2015
4 02/09/2015 550 20 27/09/2016
5 28/09/2016 600 14.55 03/07/2017
6 03/07/2017 600 15.35 04/09/2018
7 04/09/2018 700 17.78 10/10/2019
8 10/10/2019 700 20.56 31/03/2021
9 31/03/2021 1,000 28.86 28/06/2022
10 28/06/2022 950 28.73 written off
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Cs complaint and didnt think Street was wrong to 
lend loans 1  3 but thought Miss C had established a concerning pattern of repeatedly 
borrowing increasing amounts from loans 4  10. He thought that pattern was harmful and 
recommended that Miss Cs complaint about loans 4  10 should be upheld.
Miss C didnt disagree with the adjudicator, but Street did, it says it didnt irresponsibly lend 
as it was working in a charitable way in the community. It also says it wrote off Miss Cs 
outstanding balance on loan 10. It asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Street needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C could 
repay the loans without undue difficulty or the need to borrow further. These checks could 
consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, 
I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Street should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a consumer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Street was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
Miss C should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. A lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to do so without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that loans 1  3 should be upheld, Miss C hasnt 
disagreed with this. As there isnt a continuing dispute on the first three loans, Ive focused 
my decision on the loans in still in dispute, loans 4 - 10
Loans 4  10
I think due to frequency of the loans in this case, it is important to consider the pattern of 
lending here.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Streets lending history with a view to seeing if there was 
a point at which Street should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. And so, Street should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the circumstances of Miss Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point Street ought to have realised Miss C was not managing to repay her 
loans without undue difficulty. By loan 4, Miss C had been indebted to Street for 
around 33 months, thats nearly three years of borrowing without a break. Street 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss C was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Miss C didnt repay her previous loan before refinancing into the following loan and 
borrowing more.Miss C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Street. Loan 10 was 
taken out more than eight years after Miss Cs first loan. And it was for a larger 
amount. Miss C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Street over an extended period.
 
I think that Miss C lost out because Street continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Miss C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the sub-prime market.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 - 10 and Street should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Street should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it had stopping lending by loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed 
a different application (i.e., for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, the 
information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or ought to 
have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss C in a 
compliant way at this time. Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair or reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken 
up any one of these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Streets liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
A. Street should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded. 
B. Street should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. Street may choose 
to use the total of A plus B to repay any capital it has written off. 
C. Street should pay any remaining refund to Miss C. If there is no refund left and still a
balance outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for you to 
pursue this further.
D. The overall pattern of Miss Cs borrowing for loans 4 - 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Street should remove these loans entirely from Miss Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Street to deduct tax from this interest. Street should give Miss C a 
certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and direct Street (UK) C.I.C 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman