DRN-3148850
The complaint
Mr S complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) placed a hold on his
investment account while it requested source of wealth information from him.
Hes also unhappy with delays and misinformation provided in respect of migrating his
accounts to a new trading platform and with FASLs telephone security processes.
What happened
On 11 October 2019 FASL wrote to Mr S to explain that changes in anti-money laundering
regulations required it to obtain information regarding the source of money invested with it. It
asked Mr S to provide some details on an enclosed form and return it by 15 November 2019.
Mr S says the letter didnt reach him until 19 October 2019. He contacted FASL to say that
he hadnt been given enough time to supply the information. FASL treated Mr Ss concerns
as a complaint and issued a final response letter on 24 October 2019 giving further
explanation about why it had asked for the information, but not upholding the complaint.
Mr S returned the form and it was received by FASL around 4 November 2019. However, it
wasnt fully processed until 18 November 2019 despite Mr S having been told that
processing would take 48 hours. This meant that Mr S account remained on hold for this
extended period.
There was much further contact between Mr S and FASL as a result of this delay, and also
because a requested migration of his accounts to FASLs new platform was also delayed,
preventing Mr S from trading on-line. In the course of this ongoing communication Mr S was
misinformed about when he would be able to trade on-line. It was also at this point that the
issue with security occurred, when Mr S made a call to FASL and was asked for different
information than hed previously been asked for.
In response to these additional concerns FASL issued a further final response in December
2019. It provided more information about why it had needed to obtain the source of wealth
information, but it remained of the view that it had acted correctly in placing the hold on Mr S
account pending receipt of the information. However, it acknowledged that thered been
issues with the level of service provided to Mr S over the course of all the contact and
offered him £200 in compensation. It was then acknowledged that the compensation amount 
had previously been confirmed as £250, so a total of £275 (to include £25 for the further
mistake) was paid to him.
Mr S wasnt happy with FASLs response to his complaint. He referred it to this service, but
our investigator didnt feel that FASL needed to do anything more to put things right. As
Mr S remained unhappy, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I didnt think that FASL needed to do 
any more. I said, in brief:
Turning to the matter of the hold placed on Mr S account, as I see it, theres two main 
issues to address relating to this. Firstly, did FASL act fairly and correctly in placing the hold 
on the account while seeking the source of wealth information? And secondly, did the
administrative delay that restricted access to the account (not processing the returned form
in the indicated time) cause Mr S a financial loss?
In respect of the first of these issues, the hold on the account, I dont think the process FASL
adopted, nor its reasons for carrying out that process, were incorrect or unfair. It has
explained that the seeking of the source of wealth information was prompted by new
requirements of the institution that supervises the financial sector in Luxembourg  The
Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF)  where the funds in question
were domiciled.
Cross border anti-money laundering regulation has become increasingly stringent in recent
years. Its not surprising therefore that businesses are having to adapt their processes and
seek information about their customers and the money invested with them that may not have
been required previously. For instance, at the time that Mr S originally opened his accounts
with FASL and first made his investments.
How a business chooses to implement these new requirements is a matter of commercial
discretion  but its nevertheless important that any new processes are fair and reasonable.
Having looked carefully at the process FASL chose to adopt on this occasion Im satisfied it
met this standard.
Mr S was written to with an explanation of what was required, and why, and given a month to
provide the information. I dont think this deadline was unreasonable as the act of providing
the information was not a particularly onerous one. It simply involved confirming the source
of invested money  from employment, inheritance, etc  and giving some minor detail about
this. There was no implication in the communications to Mr S that he had done anything
wrong or that there were any concerns about his account. This was simply an exercise in
bringing information up-to-date and in line with current regulations.
I note Mr S comments about his bank being fully regulated and having completed its own
money laundering checks. So, all payment made via the bank to FASL will have already
been subject to regulatory requirements. There was no suggestion in any of FASLs
correspondence that that wasnt the case. However, FASL is a separate business with its
own responsibilities and it must be able to demonstrate that it has carried out its own checks
where required and appropriate, which is what it was doing in this situation.
That said, I can nevertheless appreciate that it wouldve been frustrating for Mr S to be told
in October 2019 that upon receipt of the completed form it would take 48 hours for it to be
processed and the hold on his account removed. But then when he came to chase up the
process, it became clear this wouldnt be the case. And that it took several more days for the
process to be completed and the hold to be removed, on 18 November 2019.
Mr S has said that this delay caused him considerable financial difficulties, leaving him
unable to meet commitments and causing damage to his reputation. Hes provided some
evidence to support this, acknowledging that its somewhat limited because of the time thats
passed since the issue arose, and because some parties dont wish to become involved in
his dispute with FASL.
The information Mr S has been able to provide suggests there was some issue around the
payment of an invoice to a business dated 2 December 2019. But the emails provided dont
make it entirely clear what caused the issue  theres no confirmation that it was the FASL
situation - and the emails dont give a great deal of clarity on what, if any, harm was caused
to Mr S standing with the business, or his reputation in general. I note also that the invoice
in question was for an amount considerably less than the value of several sales that Mr S
made, by phone, from his FASL account in November 2019.All this being so, while I note Mr Ss comments that there wouldve been other evidence had
other parties agreed to provide it, as it stands, I dont think theres enough for me to make a
finding, on balance, that FASLs delay in processing the form led to a financial loss, or
reputational damage, for Mr S.
Mr S has also mentioned losses due an inability to trade and market movements. For me to
make a finding on this I would need to see clear evidence of what transactions Mr S was
attempting to complete but was prevented from doing so by the delayed hold on the account.
This is something he may wish to provide in response to this provisional decision.
In closing, I think that as things stand, looking at the situation in the round, the amount of
compensation that FASL has already paid to Mr S, £275, represents a fair resolution to
situation, encompassing all three issues he raised. So, I dont intend to direct FASL to do
anything more.
FASL confirmed in had no further comments to make in light of my provisional decision. 
Mr S made a number of points in response. He said, in brief:
FASL gave different explanations as to why the hold was placed on his investment 
account. It said first that the CSSF had instructed that a hold should be put on 
redemptions, then that it was its own decision to implement the hold, as a result of 
changes in regulation communicated by the CSSF.
The hold was incorrect and unfair  FASL was unable to show which regulations it 
related to and I had simply accepted its explanation and even amplified it by 
referencing that regulation had generally grown more stringent.
FASL had not informed him of the consequences of not providing the information.  
He reiterated that the letter explaining the hold had been received late and stressed 
that it shouldve been sent earlier in any event as the hold was actually placed on his 
account on 7 October 2019, some days before the letter was sent.
The situation wouldve been different if hed been advised in advance that if the 
information wasnt provided by a certain date a hold would be placed on the account. 
That wouldve been a more reasonable and usual approach.
He stressed again that hed already been the subject of anti- money laundering 
checks with his bank.
Hed never heard of a hold being placed on an account without notice other than in 
extreme circumstances.
In respect of the financial difficulties created by the matter, in 2019 the account in 
question had been his only source of liquid assets.  
He didnt receive the monies from the withdrawals he eventually made in November 
2019 until a long time after, in December 2019. 
At the time hed been intending to purchase a house at auction as an investment, 
something which hed done previously. He intended to take money out of the account 
to pay for the house and also to take advantage of the stock market situation. But 
hed had to abandon this plan as a result of not being able to withdraw his money. 
Any payment for the distress and inconvenience caused to him should be far greater 
than that offered as the complaint involved a large amount of money. It was his only 
liquid asset and there was no explanation of what the consequences would be for not 
complying with FASLs threatening behaviour.
In light of Mr S comments I made some further enquires. FASL confirmed that it had been a 
specific requirement of CSSF that a hold on redemptions be placed on relevant customer 
accounts until the source of wealth information was received.FASL also confirmed that during the calls made to it during the two-week period of delay  
from it receiving Mr S completed source of wealth form to it being processed and the hold 
lifted  Mr S hadnt indicated any specific reason why he needed to make a withdrawal. It 
had been explained to him that the hold only applied to his investment account (which the 
initial letter had stressed) and that he could still withdraw from his other accounts  he also 
held a cash management account, an ISA and a SIPP with FASL. Further, when he did 
make the sales and withdrawals in November 2021 these were paid out on 22 November 
and 4 December 2019 respectively, so both taking only three days. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted carefully all that Mr S has said in response to my provisional decision, along with 
FASLs response to my further questioning. But having done so, I remain of the view I 
reached previously, that the complaint should not be upheld as FASLs offer to Mr S of £275 
is fair in the circumstances. 
In respect of FASL placing the hold on Mr S account, along with accounts of other 
customers in the same position, I still think it adopted a reasonable approach, using its 
commercial discretion to ensure that its regulatory responsibilities were met. 
Mr S has highlighted that in responding to him FASL gave conflicting explanations of why the 
hold on redemptions from his account was applied. It said first that it was a requirement 
imposed by the CSSF, then that it was its own decision to impose the restriction.  
As noted, FASL has since confirmed that the hold was the former, a requirement of CSSF. I 
can understand that this lack of consistency from FASL wouldve been frustrating for Mr S. 
But ultimately, I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ultimately, however it came about, I dont think a hold being placed on the account while the 
source of wealth information was obtained was an unreasonable act, given the need for 
FASL to carry out its business is accordance with regulation.   
I note Mr S point about an alternative approach being possible  asking customers for the 
information and giving a deadline for receipt after which a hold would then be imposed. But it 
appears that approach wouldnt have been acceptable to CSSF. And in any event, it 
wouldve potentially led to relevant monies being disinvested and withdrawn from FASL 
without the requested information ever then being provided. That would clearly not be a 
satisfactory situation given the motivation behind the process of confirming the source of 
invested wealth.
Mr S has also pointed to the imposition by FASL of a deadline of 15 November 2019 for the 
provision of the information, but without it giving any indication of the consequences of not 
meeting the deadline. I dont think theres anything sinister in this. I think it was most likely 
simply a method by which to encourage responses and ensure the process was completed 
as quickly as possible. Had the information not been provided by the deadline it seems clear 
that the hold on redemptions would simply have continued until such point that the 
information was received. In any event, Mr S information was received well before the 
deadline.
So, in all the circumstances, I dont think there was anything wrong with the way FASL 
carried out the exercise. But as I said previously, where things did go awry was in respect of 
the processing of the form once it was received by FASL. Mr S was told the processing 
would take two days and that eventually became two weeks. I appreciate this will have been 
very frustrating and in listening to the call recordings provided by FASL this can very clearly be heard. Mr S made numerous calls over the period in question trying to find out what was 
going on. And during each of these calls he stressed his concerns about having been asked 
to provide the information in the first place, and further, his displeasure with how long the 
process was taking. 
But that said, it also appears that Mr S didnt at any point make FASL aware of a particular 
reason why he needed to withdraw money, nor any potential consequences of not being 
able to. I appreciate that doesnt necessarily mean that he didnt have particular 
requirements at the time. And, if he did, he was perfectly entitled to not share these with 
FASL. But what it does mean is that its very difficult for me to make a finding that there was 
a loss to Mr S created by the delay, or quantify how much it might have been. 
I note, for example, what Mr S said in response to my provisional decision about his plans to 
purchase a house at auction. If he had indicated this to FASL at the time and explained what 
he needed the money for, how much he needed and what would happen if it wasnt 
received, this wouldve given FASL an opportunity to look at some way of addressing that 
specific issue in light of the processing delay it had caused. Or failing that, I would now be 
able to quantify a loss caused to Mr S. During a call made while the delay was ongoing 
FASL did suggest that it would be able to look at how the withdrawal issue might be 
addressed. But Mr S indicated that he didnt have time at that point to take that suggestion 
any further. Therefore, it seems there was an opportunity for him to discuss his specific 
needs and how they might be met pending the form being processed.  
So, I dont consider there is sufficient contemporaneous evidence to support a finding, on 
balance, that Mr S missed an opportunity or incurred a loss in any other way. I therefore 
dont feel able to conclude that FASL should do any more to compensate Mr S for the two-
week delay in processing his form than it has already offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman