DRN-4103548
The complaint
Mr S complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc  trading as Moneyway irresponsibly granted him 
credit that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr S acquired a used car (costing £16,950) financed by a hire purchase 
agreement (loan) from Moneyway. Mr S was required to make 60 monthly repayments of 
£435.75, with an optional final payment of £10 if he wanted to own the car. The total 
repayable under the loan was £26,155 at an APR of 20.3%. The loan was settled by Mr S in 
September 2022.
Mr S says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the loan wasnt affordable. Moneyway dont agree. It said the loan 
application was processed in line with its lending criteria which included credit and 
affordability checks.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneyway hadnt 
done anything wrong in granting the loan.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that he didnt have a net income of £1,800 and this would have 
been apparent to Moneyway had it verified this declaration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr S has made a subject access request to our service and its not clear whether 
we have met this request. But for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that I dont need to 
wait for this request to be met before issuing this decision.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the loan, I think Moneyway gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr S about his ability to repay that loan. 
As part of his application Mr S declared he was employed as an engineer on a net monthly 
income of £1,800.
Mr S submits that Moneyway should have verified his declared income and had it done so it 
would have come to light that his actual income was less than £1,800. But like the 
investigator Im satisfied that in the particular circumstances of this case Moneyway didnt 
need to do so. For example, Ive seen nothing about what Mr S declared as part of his 
application, or the information returned as part of Moneyways credit check, that should have 
caused Moneyway to suspect Mr S wasnt being truthful about his income. I think its also 
worth pointing out that had Moneyway asked to see Mr S bank statement covering the 
period June 2017 (the month prior to his loan application) this shows a net income of just 
over £1,800 being paid to Mr S.
However, just because I think Moneyway carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information Moneyway collected showed. 
The credit check Moneyway undertook showed Mr S had a mortgage (with no arrears), a 
current account operating in credit and a mobile phone contract (with no arrears). It also 
showed he had no other active credit, for example credit cards. Now I accept that the credit 
check Moneyway undertook showed Mr S had a number of defaults registered against him, 
but equally this credit check showed the most recent default was more than two years old 
and for a balance of less than £350.
What the above means is that Im satisfied that it wouldnt have been unreasonable for 
Moneyway to have concluded that Mr S (after paying his mortgage, his mobile phone and its 
loan) would have had a disposable income in the region of £1,000 to pay for food, utilities 
and other expenses. It also means that Im satisfied, particularly given that Mr S declared he 
was single with no dependents, that Moneyway didnt act unfairly when approving Mr S loan 
application.
I appreciate that Mr S might have significant financial issues that started a year or so after he 
took the loan out. But Im required to decide if Moneyway was reasonable when it made its 
decision to provide the loan in July 2017.  And as Ive explained, I think there was evidence 
at that time that this loan was affordable for Mr S.
In summary, and I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, I dont think Moneyway has done 
anything wrong and Im not asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman