DRN-2921224
The complaint and what happened
Miss C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse transactions she didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.  
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Miss C received an email purportedly from her university indicating she was due a 
tax refund of over £500. To receive it she needed to complete some details accessed 
through a link in the email. This included her bank details. 
On 30 May 2020, she received a call from someone claiming to be Monzo, telling her 
that payments were pending on her account and checking if they were her. When 
she explained not, she was told her account was at risk as was an account she held 
with another bank. She agreed to move £10,000 from her other bank into her Monzo 
account and she was told her account would be upgraded to one with a higher level 
of security. During this process she was asked to forward an email onto a Monzo 
email address which she did. 
After being on hold, she was told to delete her existing Monzo banking app and was 
given a new link to download a different version of the app. But Miss C downloaded 
the app outside of that link and thats when she realised £10,120 had been taken out 
of her account in multiple transactions. 
Miss Cs other bank has refunded £5,000. But Monzo didnt reimburse Miss C as it 
said she had acted with gross negligence in sharing her details. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He wasnt persuaded Miss C authorised the 
transactions. And given how the scam unfolded he wasnt persuaded she had failed 
with intent or acted with gross negligence. 
Monzo asked for the matter to referred to an ombudsman, it considers Miss C 
forwarding on the magic link to access the account, despite warnings not to share it, 
means she has acted with gross negligence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss C isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise or otherwise consent to, unless she failed with intent or 
gross negligence, to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account 
security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Miss C authorised the transactions that have been disputed, 
and so in line with the PSRs, whether she completed the agreed steps in the form 
and procedure required to make the payments or gave someone else consent to 
complete them. 
The terms and conditions say To make a bank transfer we need the name, account 
number and sort code, and account type (personal or business) of who youre 
sending money to. Youll need to enter your PIN or prove its you using your 
fingerprint or facial recognition to consent to the transfer. 
Whilst there is no dispute Miss C forwarded on the magic link than enabled access 
to her bank account, I havent seen any persuasive evidence or arguments that it 
was Miss C that completed the steps needed in order for the payments to be made, 
or that she consented to someone else doing so. As Im not persuaded Miss C 
completed all the agreed steps to make the payments from her account, or that she 
consented to someone else doing so, I find the total payments of £10,120 were 
unauthorised. 
I dont find Miss C failed with intent to keep her security credentials safe  she 
believed the information provided necessary to secure her account.
I have considered very carefully the arguments Monzo has made about Miss C being 
grossly negligent. And I think this is very finely balanced. But overall, given the 
context in which the information was shared, I dont find Miss C failed with gross 
negligence to keep her security credentials safe. 
When she received the call, she was told she was speaking with Monzo. And when 
she checked the number that was calling her on-line, this was Monzos international 
number, so it would appear and from its records Monzo seems to accept, that its 
genuine number had been spoofed by fraudsters pretending to be it. So Miss C did 
take some steps to try and verify who she was speaking to. 
Miss C says she was asked to provide her full name and email address and thought 
this was part of a verification process. And I understand that Miss C was asked to 
forward an email which contained the magic link to a Monzo address. It was unlikely 
that address was genuine, but even Monzo itself understands that would have added 
to Miss Cs reassurance that she was genuinely dealing with Monzo (as this is in its 
records). Im not aware of anything that would or ought to have alerted Miss C to the 
email address not being genuine. 
I have considered the content of the magic link itself. I fully accept there is a red box 
at the top of the warning which tells the recipient not to share the email with anyone, 
including it. I can also see at the bottom that Monzo explains it has seen fraudsters 
pretending to be Monzo and asking customers to share it. It further says Monzo will 
never ask a customer to share it. I agree in the normal course of accessing an 
account, customers are likely to have time to read and digest this information.  
However, that is far from what was happening here. Miss C was under the 
impression more than one of her accounts was at risk from fraudsters and she was 
told to follow the instructions given to make her account safe  indeed to be given a 
higher level of protection. Fraudsters prey on a customers concern and worry in 
these situations and rely on them following those instructions quickly and without 
delay. And Miss C has told us she only spent a few seconds on this page and didnt 
see the warnings. In the circumstances, I can fully understand how a warning, such 
as those given here, could be missed, particularly when told the steps being taken 
were necessary to prevent fraud. 
Overall, I dont think she seriously disregarded an obvious risk or therefore, failed 
with gross negligence. I think a lot of people would have been fooled into doing the 
same or something similar. It follows that I dont think Miss Cs actions fells so far 
below what a reasonable person would have done that it amounts to gross 
negligence. So I conclude Miss C isnt liable for the transactions in dispute and 
Monzo needs to put that right  by refunding the loss from the unauthorised 
transactions, less the reimbursement she has received from her other bank, and 
interest to compensation Miss C for the loss of use of those funds. 
Whilst the initial cause of Miss Cs loss was by the fraudster, by not refunding this 
money sooner when it ought to have, she has been caused further distress and anxiety as a result of not having those funds available to her. And I agree with the 
investigator £70 for delays in investigating matters doesnt go far enough to 
compensate for the impact its actions had. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Limited to:
Refund Miss C £5,120 (less any funds since recovered); and
Add 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement (less any 
lawfuly deductible tax); and
Pay a further £180 to Miss C to compensate her for the distress caused by Monzos 
handling of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman