DRN-4480637
The complaint
Miss D and Miss D complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by 
bad weather. 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to RSA includes 
these agents.
e
What happened
In November 2021, around the time of Storm Arwen, bad weather caused damage to Miss D 
and Miss Ds property, with a section of a fibreglass flat roof lifting off. This left the remainder 
of the roof unstable and had to be replaced. Through their broker (M) Miss D and Miss D 
contacted RSA to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. They also engaged a local 
firm to make a temporary repair to the roof.
RSA appointed a surveyor (B) to carry out a desktop validation of the claim. B reviewed 
images of the damaged roof provided by Miss D and Miss D and concluded it appeared the 
fibreglass flat roof was installed over a defective felt roof which subsequently delaminated 
and caused the fibreglass roof to peel back and lift off in the storm. B said the original felt 
roof should have been removed prior to installing the fibreglass roof. So, they concluded the 
root cause of the damage was poor workmanship (not the storm). As poor workmanship 
wasnt covered under the policy, RSA declined to accept the claim.
Miss D and Miss D (and M) disagreed with RSAs conclusions, saying while it may not have 
been best practice to overlay the felt roof with the fibreglass roof, the roof was in good 
condition prior to the storm (the fibreglass roof was installed some 12 years previously). 
Photographs of the damage showed the original felt roof was intact. They felt the sole cause 
of the delamination was the high winds from Storm Arwen. There had been no lifting of the 
fibreglass roof prior to the storm and the expected life of the fibreglass roof was some 25 
years. So, the fibreglass roof being overlaid onto the felt roof was immaterial to the damage, 
which they said was solely due to the storm (an insured peril under the policy). They took 
issue with a statement from RSA repudiating the claim that The claim has been declined as 
there is no evidence of storm damage. 
RSA treated Miss D and Miss Ds disagreement as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In 
their final response, they referred to the findings and conclusions of B and an exclusion in 
the policy terms and conditions for damage caused by, or resulting from, poor or faulty 
design, workmanship, or materials. So, RSA confirmed their decision to decline the claim.
Miss D and Miss D then complained to this Service. They disagreed with RSA about the 
decline of the claim on the grounds of poor workmanship, referring to what theyd said about 
the good condition of the roof before the storm, which they maintained was solely due to the 
storm. Theyd been affected financially by having to pay for the roof to be repaired (theyd 
had estimates of some £8,400 from a local roofer). They wanted RSA to accept their claim 
and pay for the roof to be repaired.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA fairly declined the claim.  She 
thought it appropriate that a desktop review was carried out, as there werent any surveyors 
available for the location of Miss D and Miss Ds property. She noted Bs view the standard 
process for laying a fibreglass roof would involve attaching it to a timber decking and 
painting over to harden the coating. From the photos, RSA said the timber board showed 
signs of long-term water ingress and rot, weakening it. Although M maintained there wasnt 
rot, but black adhesive attaching the fibreglass roof to the felt roof, RSA disagreed with this 
view, but even if they did it would indicate non-standard process and poor workmanship, as 
it would be likely to fail. That the roof failed after some 12 years was, in RSAs view, further 
evidence of poor maintenance or fitting (which would support decline of the claim). 
Assessing the views and evidence provided by both parties, the investigator was, on 
balance, more persuaded by the views of RSA, particularly as there wasnt any expert 
evidence to support Miss D and Miss Ds views.
Miss D and Miss D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They werent in a position to provide expert evidence to support their 
views, as the roof had been repaired. And they noted widespread damage caused by Storm 
Arwen (including their area) and strength of the winds at the time of the incident. They also 
disputed the non-availability of surveyors to inspect the property as there were surveyors in 
their area. And as the claim wasnt declined until nearly eight months after the incident, that 
would have provided sufficient time for a physical inspection to be undertaken. Nor did they 
think RSA had proved poor workmanship was the cause of the damage, given the onus was 
on RSA to show the exclusion applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Miss D and Miss D.
The main element of Miss D and Miss Ds complaint is that RSA unfairly declined their claim, 
on the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they 
werent the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to poor workmanship by the 
fibreglass roof being overlaid onto the existing felt roof.  
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, RSA dont refer in their final response to whether they consider there 
were storm conditions at the time of the damage, but from case notes and other information 
theyve provided, they accept there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. Miss D 
and Miss D have provided reports from the Met Office about Storm Arwen. Ive also looked 
at the weather data from the weather source we use as a Service. Data from the nearest 
weather station to Miss D and Miss Ds property indicates a maximum gust of 71 mph on the 
date of the incident, and the conditions as a dry storm. So, Ive concluded there were storm 
conditions on the date of the incident. On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Miss D 
and Miss D and the photographs of the damaged roof. Damage to roofs is what wed expect 
to see in storm conditions, particularly those involving high winds. So, Ive concluded the 
answer to the second question is yes.
The third question is therefore key, given RSA declined the claim on the grounds the cause 
of the damage was poor workmanship. Ive considered this issue carefully, including the 
points made by Miss D and Miss D together with the comments from B. Ive also looked at 
the photographs of the property, including the damaged roof and other areas. Taking all 
these things into account, Ive concluded RSA have acted fairly in declining Miss D and Miss 
Ds claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under a 
policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as RSA 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies  as Miss D and Miss D 
have pointed out when responding to the investigators view. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think RSA have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, RSA refer to policy exclusions, in the Policy exclusions section of the 
policy, which apply to all sections, where there are the following exclusions:
Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by 
or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, 
vermin, fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything that happens gradually, the 
process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or restoration.
Defective construction or design
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from 
poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
Ive also considered the comments from Bs desktop validation of the claim. These are:
I have reviewed insureds images. It looks like the fibreglass flat roof has been 
installed over a defective felt roof, this has subsequently delaminated causing the 
new roof to peel back.
The original roof should have been removed prior to installing the fibreglass roof. As 
such this is due to poor workmanship and so we cannot provide cover.
There are also comments in RSAs case notes about the Oriented Strand Board (OSB) used 
as underpinning for the fibreglass roof, based on photographs of the damage taken by the 
contractor who put in place the temporary repair to the roof a few days after the incident:
Pre-existing dampness to the OSB decking has softened timber surrounding the nail 
fixing, which would then leave the roof vulnerable to wind loading. To the right hand 
side of the picture where the GRP roof meets the apron, the OSB sheet has 
delaminated and peeled back like vinyl, again indicative of pre-existing water damage. The photo above was taken by the make-safe contractor no more than five 
days after the event, and we can see the degradation of the timber is long-standing.
I have to conclude, on balance, but for the pre-existing combination of the poor 
construction method, leading to the gradual deterioration of the OSB the roof would 
not have failed.
Fibreglass roofs should have a lifespan of 25 years, the fact we can see water 
ingress which predates the cause of loss tells me this roof was not fit for purpose.
Miss D and Miss D accept the fibreglass roof was applied onto the original felt roof and 
acknowledge this wasnt best practice. But they maintain the roof was in good condition and 
there hadnt been any issues with the roof in the 10 to 12 years since it was installed. So, the 
damage was the result of the high winds in the storm, not the way the fibreglass roof was 
overlaid onto the felt roof. 
Ive thought about both points of view carefully, but on the balance of probabilities Im more 
persuaded by RSAs view, drawing on the above comments from B and the case notes. If 
something isnt best practice, it indicates something that shouldnt be done, and Ive not 
seen an explanation of why best practice wasnt followed when the fibreglass roof was 
installed. . Its not unreasonable to conclude not following best practice is likely to increase 
the risk of subsequent issues and potential failure.
Ive also looked at the photographs of the damaged roof. Having considered these alongside 
the views of B and RSAs case notes, I think theyre consistent with those views. 
From the photographs, its clear the fibreglass roof was laid onto the OSB, which was laid 
onto the felt roof. RSA have said, based on technical review and the photographs, if the OSB 
was glued (bonded) to the felt) it would have been likely to fail given the nature of felt 
roofing. Thats because felt is a mineral material involving a bitumastic material coated with 
mineral particles. Over time the mineral coating would become unbonded. The photographs 
also show evidence of rot at one corner of the roof by the apron around the roof and of the 
OSB, indicating water ingress that would have weakened the OSB. Combined with the 
adhesion issues, this is likely to have made the roof vulnerable to the storm conditions. 
I think these points are persuasive, supporting RSAs view about the design and construction 
of the roof and wear and tear issues affecting the roofs condition prior to the storm.
Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded RSA have done enough (given the 
onus being on them to show the exclusions apply) to have applied the exclusions for 
defective construction and design and for wear and tear fairly and reasonably to decline the 
claim for damage to the roof, in the specific circumstances of this case.
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have considered the other points raised by Miss D 
and Miss D. First, the issue of RSA carrying out a desktop review and not visiting the 
property to inspect the damage, when Miss D and Miss D said there were surveyors in their 
area. RSA have said there werent any surveyors available from the firm (B) they use to 
assess damage and claims. That being the case, it was for RSA to determine whether a 
desktop evaluation would be sufficient, based on the images of the damage provided and 
their being very close to the date of the incident. I dont think this is unreasonable, and the 
photographs are of a quality to enable reasonable conclusions to be drawn about the 
damage and the condition of the roof immediately before the incident.
Second Miss D and Miss D refer to widespread damage caused by Storm Arwen (including 
their area) and strength of the winds at the time of the incident. I dont disagree with their observations on either point, but the issue here is whether the damage to their property was 
whether the storm conditions were the main or dominant cause of the damage. As Ive set 
out above, I dont think they were and that the storm conditions highlighted the issues of the 
design and construction of the fibreglass roof and its condition at the time of the incident. 
Had these factors not been present, I think it likely the storm wouldnt have caused the 
damage it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss D and Miss Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman