DRN-2115604
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that TFS Loans Limited (trading as TFS Loans) unfairly accepted 
her as a guarantor on a guarantor loan. She says that she was pressured by the borrower 
into being a guarantor in circumstances where there was no way shed be able to make the 
payments.
  
Background
Mrs S became the guarantor on a loan of £3,500.00 provided to her son in October 2019. 
The loan was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due to be 
repaid in 36 instalments of £169.41. The loan had interest of £2,598.76 and the total amount 
to be repaid was £6,098.76.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown TFS, neither the borrower nor Mrs S would be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and key questions we consider when looking at guarantor 
loan complaints - on our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Mrs S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im upholding Mrs S complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when TFS lent to the borrower required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay this loan in a 
sustainable manner. The existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the 
potential for TFS to pursue Mrs S, instead of the borrower, for the loan payments didnt alter, 
lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
As the borrower isnt a party to this complaint, I dont have any evidence of the checks that 
TFS carried out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to the borrower. 
But the lack of information from both TFS and the borrower on this matter doesnt lessen the 
problem here, as TFS is seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity agreement. And 
Mrs S has been called upon to make the payments. 
In any event, notwithstanding the conclusions reached by our investigator and for reasons Ill 
go on to explain further on, I dont think that this matters too much in this case. And as this is 
the case, I dont think that its necessary for me to make a finding on whether the checks 
TFS carried out on the borrower were proportionate. I say this despite the considerable 
weight of information Mrs S has provided about the borrower and TFS is seeking to enforce 
the guarantee against Mrs S after only two payments from the borrower were made. And 
both of these factors are indications that the monthly loan payments may have been 
unaffordable for the borrower in the first place. 
The reason I dont consider it necessary to make a finding on whether the borrower should 
have been provided with the loan is because Im satisfied that Mrs S should never have 
been accepted as a guarantor on this loan. I say this because as well as carrying out 
reasonable checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, TFS 
also needed to carry out similar enquiries into Mrs S circumstances to check that shed be 
able to make the payments to this loan in the event she had to.
As I understand it, TFS enquiries suggested that Mrs S was on a pension with an income of 
£1,150.00. During the course of these enquiries, TFS also found out that Mrs S was the 
guarantor on two other guarantor loans taken out by the borrower. I know that there was 
some debate about whether one of the other two loans would be settled with the proceeds 
from this loan. But Im surprised that TFS chose to continue with this application in the 
knowledge that regardless of how the funds for this loan would be used, Mrs S would be left 
with obligations as a guarantor to at least one other lender. 
In any event, given these circumstances and the fact that Mrs S was on a fixed income, I 
would have expected further enquiries and for further evidence on Mrs S financial 
circumstances to have been requested before any application was approved.
Had this information been requested, TFS would more likely than not have discovered that 
Mrs S was also already the guarantor on a third guarantor loan taken out by the borrower. 
And bearing in mind that the borrowers inability or unwillingness to make the payments on 
one of these loans would be a reasonable indication of his position on the others, I think 
there was a always a reasonable possibility Mrs S would be called on to make payments on 
all four guarantor loans (including this one), which she couldnt afford to do while meeting 
her non-discretionary expenditure, should one of the guarantees have been enforced. 
In these circumstances, I think that TFS ought to have realised that Mrs S simply wasnt in a 
position to act as a guarantor on this loan. And as this is the case, I think that TFS failure to 
properly look into Mrs S circumstances meant that unfairly accepted her as the guarantor for 
this loan.      
As Mrs S is, at least, being expected to make payments to a loan that she shouldnt have 
been accepted as a guarantor on, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS 
did wrong. And Im satisfied that TFS needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what TFS needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs S complaint for TFS to put things right by:
releasing Mrs S from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Mrs S may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Mrs S, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this loan; HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give  
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. TFS Limited should put 
things right for Mrs S in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman