DRN-3606459
The complaint
Ms L and Mr M are unhappy about National House-Building Councils claim handling and 
settlement amounts under their 10 year Buildmark warranty.
Ill generally refer to Ms L throughout the decision as shes been more heavily involved in 
dealing with the claim.
What happened
The property was built in 2014 and Ms L and Mr M were the second owners when they 
bought the house in 2018. They discovered there were issues with the houses in their street 
suffering leaks due to the solar panels and their house was one of those with the problem 
and Ms L claimed.
After further leaks Ms L made a new claim. NHBC didnt accept it. NHBC said there had 
been a cash settlement made for the solar panel related leak and so that part of the claim 
was closed. But Ms L also claimed for a breakdown of the dry ridge system only to be told by 
NHBC this part of her claim was also declined as even though it was a defect it wasnt 
causing major damage. NHBC pointed out that this was a requirement under the wording of 
the warranty.
Further claims followed later and this time the issues included leaking solar panels, failing 
gaskets, and broken ridge tiles. Due to the previous claim problems and the amount of water 
entering the property Ms L arranged for basic emergency repairs herself to avoid further 
damage. The roofer she used pointed out there was a lack of membrane and a metre long 
missing gasket.
Last year the original house builder worked on fixing window leaks at the property. This 
issue had been a problem for Ms L dating back to her original claim. The builder was 
informed about the lack of membrane and did some work to waterproof it.
Ms L was unhappy that NHBC has denied any further claims regarding leaks involving the 
solar panels saying this had already been paid for. But Ms L knew that other homes of the 
same build locally had made second and further claims for the same issue which NHBC had 
accepted and dealt with. Ms L involved a surveyor to review the problems too. She asked 
NHBC to resolve all the issues that she felt were still outstanding.
NHBC accepted there had been some problems:
window leak
NHBC said the problem was with the detail on the window heads. Repairs had been carried 
out to stop the leak and NHBC said its expert could check the repairs to ensure the work 
done was sufficient. It confirmed that at this stage there was still internal repair work to be 
done.
roof leak
NHBC accepted that this time (unlike in the previous leak claims) the ensuite bathroom was 
unaffected. It agreed to review the damage as a valid claim as it now accepted it wasnt 
linked to previous claims. It said it was willing to consider this along with the internal damage 
(bedroom, stairs, and landing) subject to photos and confirmation of repairs. It asked for a 
report from the roofer Ms L used so it could check the details and decide on costs to 
reimburse. It said the original home builder had now fitted a membrane, but it said this didnt 
have to be of the breathable variety.
Compensation
NHBC offered £400 compensation as a goodwill gesture for the distress and inconvenience 
caused due to the issues, errors and delayed incurred. After checking with the original 
builder, it said the membrane now fitted was adequate even though it wasnt breathable.
Ms L remained unhappy, didnt accept the compensation offer, and brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She confirmed she could only look at the points 
covered up to the point when NHBC issued its final response to the original complaint. Our 
investigator said NHBC should consider Ms Ls invoices for work already done, continue to 
deal with the claim in a timely manner and increase the compensation award by a further 
£150.
NHBC accepted this but Ms L didnt and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
As pointed out by our investigator this service is only able to deal with complaints that were 
included within the original complaint to the business that it had a chance to deal with and 
respond to. My findings will be mainly referring to the issues included within the NHBCs final 
response letter. But this does seem to involve issues that were brought to NHBCs attention 
at different times by Ms L.
Its clear that Ms L has been battling with the issues of the roof and the windows over a 
number of years. And I think NHBC now accepts that these matters should have been 
addressed much more quickly than they have across the various claims.
window leak
Setting aside the issues with the time taken it appears that the window leaks have been 
resolved now. The works done by Ms Ls contractor and the original builder seem to have 
resolved the problems. NHBC have suggested it could send the inspector to review the work 
and make sure it is sufficient. I think thats fair. Its up to Ms L to decide if she would like to 
take up that option. I dont think any further outcome is required at this point regarding the 
windows.
roof leak
I think Ms L was clear from the start that she was making a new and entirely separate leak 
claim. Its not obvious to me how or why NHBC got that wrong for such a long time. Ms L in 
the end had her own repairs done when there was a particular problem with the water 
entering her property. Ms L has confirmed that there havent been any further leaks since the 
last repair.Theres still some debate about whether or not the now fitted membrane should be 
breathable as far as Ms L is concerned. Ms L said that NHBC arent meeting their own 
standards and requirements here. But NHBC has confirmed due to cross ventilation the 
non breathable membrane is adequate. Ive no reason to doubt this information about the 
membrane.
I think NHBC agreeing to review all of Ms Ls costs getting repairs done subject to roofer 
reports, photos and confirmation of repairs is the fair and reasonable thing to do. I 
understand NHBCs point about needing to investigate claims before action. But in the 
circumstances Ms L found herself in I think it was understandable that she acted.
As Ms L has pointed out, NHBC had already explained to neighbours they were suffering 
delays arranging the inspections of damage and in getting work done. So, Ms L thinks she 
was quite lucky to be able to get someone in capable of doing a repair for her. Otherwise the 
claim would have run on much longer, and the damage would have got worse. The NHBC 
review will include the water damage to the bedroom, stairs, and landing. I would expect 
NHBC to take a pragmatic approach to finding a suitable reasonable settlement amount 
here. If the parties are not able to reach a suitable agreement, then I could make a decision 
if the amounts involved are provided to me by both sides within the timescale to issue a final 
decision. Theres a suggestion that NHBC has chosen not to pay any of this which if true 
appears to me to be unreasonable.
surveyor report
Although I can understand why Ms L arranged for her own survey report Im not convinced 
the report has had much bearing on the points considered in relation to this specific claim. I 
dont think NHBC need to pay towards the costs Ms L incurred here. But the costs may need 
further consideration due to the other points Ms L wants NHBC to consider further.
compensation
Theres no doubt Ms L has faced unreasonable delays and slow service. The communication 
from NHBC hasnt been good enough and it recognised that when it offered £400 in 
compensation. The claim should have been handled more effectively and Ms L did clearly 
suffer due to the constant difficulties she faced in trying to move the issues along and get her 
home fixed to a suitable standard. Based on the delays and the issues Ms L faced I think 
increasing the compensation payment for distress and inconvenience by a further £150 is a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
outstanding issues
Ms L said there are further issues with the window claims that still need NHBC to deal with 
the problem. Ms L said theres a problem due to the lack of a cavity tray and the absence of 
water drainage. She said her surveyor found rusty water behind the cladding sealing. She 
said with no drainage or evaporation this is a house design issue and NHBC havent 
addressed it yet. If this point doesnt get resolved directly with NHBC I can confirm Ms L 
would be able to bring a further, separate complaint about this point.
Similarly, Ms L said the membrane 150mm overlay rule hadnt been followed either. She 
said it was clear that at the front of the property at least this rule wasnt being met. This 
again is a point for further consideration between the parties. Linked to that if any issues 
arise with the membrane not being breathable in the future, I think Ms L could raise that 
again in a further complaint.Ms L also mentioned outstanding points about the missing gasket and the original builders 
not wanting to pay for the whole dry ridge system kit. These points need to be discussed 
directly between NHBC and Ms L.
Theres an outstanding issue too around the cladding. Apparently, the original builder was 
going to deal with this according to Ms L but Im unclear what that means or entails. Im not 
sure if this is something, I can make a decision on or whether NHBC and Ms L need to 
unravel this issue first. I can review this further if Im provided details within the response 
timescale.
Ms L also mentioned the roof rafters needing cleaning. But I dont think thats likely to be 
relevant to the claim. An issue such as cleaning wouldnt normally be something, Id expect 
to be picked up by NHBC. Ms L will need to provide details of why the cleaning is linked to 
the claim.
Our investigator also referred to NHBC arranging a proper fix which refers to Ms Ls point 
about the roofer had only done a temporary repair and this needs to be worked on again by 
NHBC to complete a full and lasting roof repair. I agree, it seems to be accepted that a 
temporary repair was done so NHBC need to confirm what long term action is being taken to 
resolve the issue. Ill review any details provided as part of my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
NHBC acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but didnt comment any further.
Ms L gave detailed responses. She provided a roofing receipt for £1,894.65 from January 
2021, some emails, and some PowerPoint slides in which she said the losses were two 
separate leaks. I wont refer to every point she raised just the main ones:
The leak wasnt on the ensuite side of the property and Ms L needs compensating for the 
whole flashing.
The Christmas leaks should be covered under the 10 year policy and werent part of the 
solar panel claim. The builders didnt initially offer to repair the internal wall damage from the 
Christmas leak it was a year later before they did and recognised this was covered and not 
paid for in the previous solar settlement.
When the NHBC inspector visited he wouldnt be able to see the missing membrane unless 
he unscrewed the ridge tiles, but he didnt he just put a camera on a long pole to look.
Ms L said again that a gasket is missing from half of her house. She also said water can be 
pushed by strong wind to flow upwards and get into the house, and theres no membrane 
under the roof to stop the water. As there was no membrane over the ridge for more than 6 
years the joints arent well sealed, and both these issues are causing leaks.
Ms L got a surveyors report because originally NHBC said all cladding for the front of the 
house needed to be removed. It also said it would check the water-proof membrane behind 
and re-fit. But a further NHBC check said it would only change 3 timbers for each window, 
this is about 9/10 timbers in total compared to the original plan to replace about 100.
The surveyor report did show these issues needed to be resolved and so it should be paid 
for by NHBC. Ms L said as she didnt understand she needed professional support. She said 
this showed the cause of the leak and the cost of the leak.She said she made it clear to NHBC that she needed to see the result from the surveyor 
before settling the claim as NHBC didnt have a clear conclusion on the cause of leak. NHBC 
agreed and asked to see the report and to understand the cause of leak.
Ms L has wanted to settle since the original builders did a previous fix badly. Ms L said 
NHBC only offered £3000. The surveyor report found water trapping behind the cladding 
which hasnt been resolved. And the surveyor mentioned a possibility that water leak might 
be from the rooftop and he wanted to undertake further investigation which requires 
removing more areas of the cladding. Ms M said she asked the builders to agree to do this at 
their cost, but there was no progress, and the surveyor could not do a further investigation. 
The surveyor said £3000 is not enough, it may cost £20,000- 30,000.
Ms L said the surveyor report showed at least 2 building regulation breaches - ridge 
waterproof membrane and insulation.
Ms L said insulation is also covered under building regulation too. Her builders found there 
was missing insulation in the ceiling.
Ms L said my provisional decision didnt show how NHBC had refused on multiple occasions 
to inspect the property and damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
window leak
I dont think anything in response referred specifically to this issue covered in my provisional 
decision. So, I think what I said on this point remains the same.
roof leak
I dont think theres anything specific in response to this point either. If there is, Ive not been 
able to identify it. I mentioned in the provisional decision there was a suggestion NHBC 
wasnt going to pay for any of this claim. That is unconfirmed by NHBC but if true that is 
unreasonable. I expect NHBC to take a pragmatic approach to finding a suitable reasonable 
settlement amount here in relation to the bedroom, stairs and landing costs caused by the 
roof leak. The roofing receipt sent after my provisional decision doesnt refer to these other 
costs so Im unable to set an exact figure for this. I said if both parties provided amounts, I 
would have. So, my provisional decision remains the same NHBC should make a 
reasonable offer regarding the roof repairs receipt and towards repairs of the water damage 
to the bedroom, stairs, and landing.
surveyors report
Ms L has made more points about this, but they appear to be more related to all the 
outstanding issues that Ive said arent part of this complaint. Ms Ls points dont seem to 
cover the specifics Im dealing with here. I did accept previously that the report costs may 
need further consideration in relation to the outstanding issues and that still remains. But 
regarding this complaint I dont see any reason to change my provisional decision.
compensation
This remains the same as my provisional decision.outstanding issues
Ive no more to go on about the cleaning point from my provisional decision.
Ive no more to go on regarding the proper fix either. So, my provisional decision stating 
NHBC will need to confirm what long term action is being taken to resolve this issue means it 
still has to do that. Only now it needs to do that directly with Ms L. It isnt something I can 
now specify in this decision as Ive had no further information provided to me. If it is 
accepted that the previous arrangements were temporary, then further action is still needed. 
This is what this service refers to as a lasting and effective repair. NHBC and Ms L need to 
agree on what that should be with expert guidance provided by NHBC.
Ive considered what Ms L added about the cladding, but I still dont think I can resolve the 
issue in this complaint.
I accept Ms Ls point that on many occasions NHBC didnt inspect the property when she 
asked it to.
Ms L has made important further points which I have noted above. But to me they mainly 
seem to link with the outstanding problems rather than the points being dealt with specifically 
under this complaint. I think theres still some way to go for there to be complete clarity 
between Ms L and NHBC regarding all the problems that remain. But I hope by me noting 
these areas here the parties can either resolve the key points or arrange for a further 
separate complaint to follow to this service.
Putting things right
Make a reasonable offer regarding the roof repairs and towards repairs of the water 
damage to the bedroom, stairs, and landing.
Update Ms L directly about how it will carry out a lasting and effective roof repair.
Increase the amount of compensation paid by a further £150.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require National House-Building Council to:
Make a reasonable offer regarding the roof repairs and towards repairs of the water 
damage to the bedroom, stairs, and landing.
Update Ms L directly about how it will carry out a lasting and effective roof repair.
Increase the amount of compensation paid by a further £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman