DRN-3820927
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to them alongside a mortgage. 
I know Mr D and Mrs G have another complaint about a separate Lloyds PPI policy. Just to 
be clear, my decision is about the cover that was sold to them in September 1999.
I can also see that when the cover was sold, Lloyds was trading under a different business 
name. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to Lloyds in this decision.  
What happened
Mr D and Mrs G had a mortgage with Lloyds that was taken out at some point in 1998. In 
September 1999, they applied for a further advance to that mortgage of £7,000. PPI was 
sold to them to cover that further advance only. The cost of the cover was £3.50 per month. 
Only Mr D was covered by this policy. 
I can see Mrs G initially complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI back in 2012. At that 
stage, Lloyds told her that she didnt have cover. However, in August 2019, it wrote to her to 
say it had located a PPI policy. But ultimately it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr D and Mrs G then complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr D and Mrs G did not agree with that view. They said PPI had never 
been discussed with them and they didnt even know they had a PPI policy. 
As Mr D and Mrs G did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr D and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld 
this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I must apply the balance of 
probabilities. That means I must decide whats most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence before me. To help me decide what most likely happened, Ive seen some 
documentary and electronic evidence provided by Lloyds. And Ive also thought carefully 
about what Mr D and Mrs G told us about the sale.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr D and Mrs G would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. 
I appreciate Mr D and Mrs G were adamant that the cover had never been discussed with 
them and they hadnt agreed to it. I accept that what theyve told us is what they honestly 
remember about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind that the cover was sold over 20 
years ago. And it is difficult to recall precisely what happened such a long time ago. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form Mr D and Mrs G completed. PPI is not 
mentioned on that application form, so it seems a separate application form would have 
been completed. On that basis, I think its most likely that Mr D and Mrs G would have 
appreciated PPI was a separate financial product to the actual mortgage. 
The PPI is not shown as an entry on their mortgage account. So, it looks as though the PPI 
premiums would have been debited separately from their bank account. They would have 
likely completed a separate direct debit mandate to that of their mortgage. That means the 
PPI transactions would have shown on their bank statements. If Mr D and Mrs G hadnt 
agreed to PPI, I think theyd have queried what these payments were for at the time. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest they did. On balance, although I appreciate Mr D and 
Mrs G now have no recollection, I think its most likely that PPI was discussed at the point of 
sale. As a separate application for PPI had to be made, I think theyd have known they didnt 
have to take the cover out if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Lloyds had to take steps to check the 
policy was suitable for Mr D and Mrs Gs needs. To help me decide whether the policy was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also looked at what 
they told us about their circumstances from the relevant time. 
As I said above, the PPI alongside this loan was set up to cover Mr D only. So if he was off 
sick or if he lost his job, the repayments for the further advance would have been covered for 
up to 12 months. 
I understand Mr D had some sick pay and he and Mrs G had some savings. The savings 
look as though they would have been less than a months net income. It is not clear to me 
exactly what that level of sick pay was. But I have to stress that this borrowing was secured 
on the home of Mr D and Mrs G. So their property could have been at risk if they fell behind 
with their repayments. With a PPI policy, Mr D could have used any sick pay he had on his 
other essential expenditure at what could have been a stressful time if he was out of work. 
And with a PPI policy, Mr D and Mrs G could have kept their savings intact. 
I appreciate Mr D and Mrs G said their family members would have been able to help out if 
Mr D was out of work. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of those family 
members to assist in such circumstances. But circumstances can change and theres no 
guarantee that such assistance would have been available as and when Mr D and Mrs G 
needed it. 
I understand Mr D was in good health at the time the cover was sold. So I dont think hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. And I 
havent seen anything unusual about his employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from being able to make a successful claim. With all of this in mind, Im satisfied 
that the PPI probably was suitable for Mr D and Mrs Gs needs. 
Nonetheless, Lloyds still had to give Mr D and Mrs G enough information about the cover so 
they could decide whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible that Lloyds 
didnt tell Mr D and Mrs G everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how the PPI 
could have been helpful for them if Mr D was out of work. So I dont think theyd have acted 
differently if Lloyds had given them more or better information. With all of these things in 
mind, I cant say PPI was mis-sold. 
I know Mr D and Mrs G mentioned commission in their complaint. But as the mortgage was 
redeemed in 2001, the rules around unfair commission dont apply to this complaint. 
As I said, I know Mr D and Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons 
set out above, Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint. I dont need to tell Lloyds to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman