DRN-3204599
The complaint
Mr P and Ms L complain that Nationwide didnt help them to recover funds sent to an 
incorrect account in error. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to all parties, so I wont repeat all of them here. Instead 
Ill give a brief summary of the key points below, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
In July 2020 Mr P and Ms L applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. Part of the application 
process involved Mr P and Ms L providing the account details of the account they wanted 
the mortgage proceeds to be paid into and giving account details for the repayment direct 
debit to be set up. 
Mr P and Ms L accept that they provided incorrect account details on that form. Theyve 
explained that they only noticed this when they were sent confirmation that the direct debit 
had been set up on an account number they didnt recognise and contacted Nationwide 
about it. As this point isnt in dispute, theres no need for me to comment on it any further in 
this decision.
Mr P and Ms L say that Nationwide didnt act quickly enough when they alerted it to the fact 
that the funds had been sent to the wrong account. They say this led to the third party 
removing most of the funds from the account, meaning neither Nationwide nor the receiving 
bank were able to recover them in full. 
Since raising their complaint Mr P and Ms L have received around 30% of the initial amount 
sent incorrectly. But both banks say they arent able to recover any more as it has been 
removed from the recipients account.
Mr P and Ms L complained to Nationwide about what happened. They say Nationwide didnt 
act to recall the funds as quickly as it could and should have. And they say that if it had done 
so, theyd have had more chance of recovering them. Nationwide didnt agree that it had 
treated Mr P and Ms L unfairly, so it didnt uphold the complaint. 
As Mr P and Ms L remained unhappy with Nationwides response they referred their 
complaint to this service. Our investigator considered everything and whilst he didnt think 
that Nationwides failure to act more quickly wouldve resulted in a different outcome in terms 
of recovering the funds, he did think Mr P and Ms L mightve felt less stressed about the 
situation if Nationwide had appeared to take action more quickly. So he recommended 
Nationwide paid £200 compensation to Mr P and Ms L to recognise this  and Nationwide 
accepted the recommendation. 
Mr P and Ms L remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint, so it has been passed 
to me to make a final decision on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to start by acknowledging how difficult this situation mustve been for Mr P and 
Ms L. I certainly dont underestimate the worry and anguish the situation has caused, and 
also the stress of dealing with the complaint about it. But Im afraid that I agree with our 
investigators outcome, so I dont require Nationwide to do any more than the investigator 
recommended. Ill explain why. 
- I can see that on the day Mr P and Ms L made Nationwide aware that the payment 
hadnt arrived, the Nationwide representative contacted an internal department to check 
whether the payment had been rejected and returned to Nationwide. I think this was a 
fair and proportionate course of action as at that stage, Mr P and Ms L told Nationwide 
they didnt know the account the funds had been sent to. So it was reasonable of 
Nationwide to check whether theyd in fact been returned to the sender.
- Two days later Nationwides internal department confirmed that it couldnt locate the 
funds as being returned to Nationwide. At that stage it raised a payment trace to locate 
where the funds had arrived. It does appear that Mr P and Ms L werent told about this 
action until they called into Nationwide four days later. But Im satisfied that Nationwide 
did do it, and thats what it needed to do in order to trace the funds. I can also see 
further contact from Mr P and Ms L as they were understandably worried about the 
progress of the payment trace. Nationwide couldve managed their expectations better 
by letting them know about the timescales for the trace to be completed, which from 
Nationwides internal notes, it doesnt seem that it did. But again Im satisfied this didnt 
hinder the tracing process itself.
- Although the payment recipient was located by the payment trace process, the receiving 
bank wouldve needed to reject the payment in order for it to be returned to Nationwide, 
and in turn to Mr P and Ms L. But from what Ive seen, the majority of the funds were 
removed from the recipients account on the day they arrived. So given that the problem 
wasnt known about until around six days after the money was credited to the incorrect 
account, I dont believe that Nationwide completing the payment trace any quicker 
wouldve allowed it to recover any more of the funds, or ultimately achieve a better 
outcome, than it did. 
I understand that Mr P and Ms L have been refunded around £12,500 that was recovered, 
but for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont hold Nationwide responsible for the fact that 
it wasnt able to recover the rest of the funds. I do realise how upsetting this will be for Mr P 
and Ms L and Im sorry to disappoint them. But in making my decision I have to consider 
what, if anything, a business has done wrong. And if it has done something wrong, I can only 
order it to put things right if I believe what happened wouldnt otherwise have happened, had 
the business not made a mistake. 
In this scenario its unfortunate that the funds were sent to the wrong account, but 
Nationwide wasnt responsible for that. And it did what Id expect it to do to work out what 
had happened. That said, I do think it couldve communicated with Mr P and Ms L in a more 
timely manner to alleviate the difficult situation they were going through, and avoid the 
additional stress that it inevitably caused. 
Putting things right
To recognise the additional stress and upset that its poor communication had on Mr P and 
Ms L, I require Nationwide to pay them £200 compensation.  
My final decision
My decision is to uphold this complaint in part. I require Nationwide Building Society to put 
things right as Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ombudsman