DRN-4138751
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim made against him on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr G was involved in an accident where he and a third-party driver
collided at a roundabout. The third-party driver said Mr G was in the wrong lane. AXA
accepted liability for the accident and settled the third-party claim.
Mr G didnt agree. He said there were two lanes, he was on the outer lane and had stayed in
the outer lane. He wasnt happy because he said they settled the claim without informing him
and without taking his side of things into account. He also wasnt happy with AXAs
communication.
AXA said it paid Mr G £250 in compensation. It said £50 was for not acknowledging his
complaint within the standard time frame, and £200 was for failing to communicate and
respond to his correspondence in a timely manner, and for a lack of contact throughout the
life of the claim. But it didnt change its decision to accept liability for the accident.
Mr G didnt accept what AXA said and so he brought his complaint to us. He says that as a
result of AXAs decision his insurance premium increased. He feels his reputation as a
careful and considerate driver has been tarnished.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA had received
all the available information in its investigations. She thought the compensation it offered Mr
G was fair and reasonable for the communication issues. Our investigator also thought the
increase in premium at renewal was correct following the claim on the policy.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion on the matter. As an agreement couldnt be
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 April 2023 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome
our investigator reached but for different reasons.
In these types of complaints, our role isnt to say who is responsible for the accident in
question, thats something for the courts to decide. So, Im not able to say whether Mr G
caused the accident, but Ive look at whether AXAs investigation was fair, and if the
outcome it reached was reasonable.
Mr Gs policy contains a term found in most car insurance policies. It says AXA is entitled to
take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any claim in your name. This means
AXA can handle a claim however it sees fit. Even though it might mean it makes a decision
Mr G doesnt agree with, it is still allowed to make such a decision. That said, we would
expect it to settle a claim in a fair and reasonable way, taking into account all the facts and
evidence provided by both sides.
Mr G doesnt think AXA took his side of things into consideration. I can understand why he
feels that way, as its notes indicate it had already made the decision to accept liability before
he had a chance to send his forms back. However, Mr G phoned AXA to report the incident.
Its system notes that were made shortly after, indicate it was under the impression Mr G was
merging into the lane when the accident occurred, so I think its likely Mr G would have given
some explanation of the accident circumstances during his initial phone call with AXA.
AXA thought that as Mr G was the one merging lanes, greater responsibility lay with him.
Based on the information it had at the time, I dont think what it said was unreasonable. Ive
read the form Mr G later completed and consider what he said happened at the time. While
he does state he stayed in the outer lane, he also says he wasnt aware the lanes merged,
and he says he was indicating to take the exit when the collision happened. I find Mr G gave
the impression he may have been merging into the lane, so even if AXA had waited on Mr
Gs form before making its decision, Im not persuaded it would have changed things.
The third-party driver said both he and Mr G had changed lanes on approach to the
roundabout. He said Mr G then attempted to re-join the second lane from the third lane at
the last minute and caused the accident. Mr G however maintains he was in the outer lane
(which is the second lane) and he did not change lanes. He also later informed AXA that
there were two lanes exiting the roundabout and they did not merge, and I find the third
partys account supports what he said in this respect. But I dont think its enough to
determine who was at fault in the incident.
As I mentioned earlier, my role isnt to say who was responsible, its to consider if AXA acted
fairly and reasonably by accepting liability for what happened. There is little evidence to
support either partys account of the incident, and all things considered, I dont think there is
enough to say Mr G wasnt at fault here. But I think AXA could have considered accepting
partial responsibility for the accident because of the lack of evidence.
However, even if it accepted joint responsibility, I think its likely Mr G would be in a similar
position to the one he finds himself in. This is because, a fault claim is normally recorded
unless the insurer can recover all its costs in relation to the claim, regardless of who was
liable for the incident. Im not persuaded AXA would have been able to recover all its costs,
as it would still have been responsible for half the costs incurred if it accepted joint
responsibility for the accident. So, I wont ask it to remove the marker from records.
Mr G says his premium increased because of the fault claim recorded against him, and I
appreciate he says he had an otherwise clean driving record, but as I said above, I dont
think its decision to accept liability was unfair or unreasonable, so I dont think AXA needs to
remove the fault claim from records.
However, Mr G wasnt kept up to date on the outcome of the claim and I think this would
have been upsetting to him to later find out he would still be held wholly liable for the
incident. I also note Mr G wrote to AXA on several occasions and his letters went
unanswered. I find most of the communication in this claim was instigated by Mr G. AXA
accepted that they should have communicated better with him and paid £200 in
compensation. It paid an additional £50 for delays in acknowledging his complaint. I think
this is fair compensation for the upset its actions would cause him.
In light of all this, while I understand this is will be disappointing to Mr G, I dont think AXA
needs to do anything more...Mr G didnt accept my provisional decision: 
He says that the third-party vehicle had pre-existing damage to it.
He says AXA settled the claim against him and hid the fact from him for several 
months. 
He thinks he would have been in shock when he first logged the claim. 
He says his car insurance premium increases by £400 or more when he is added to 
the policy and he doesnt think £250 adequately addresses his losses.
Mr G also says innocent drivers should be protected from fraud by other drivers and 
reckless settlement of claims by insurers.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr G has said and Im not persuaded to change the decision I 
reached, but I would like to address some of the points he raised. 
I accept the third-party vehicle had pre-existing damage, but that doesnt mean further 
damage wasnt caused in this accident. Mr G indicated to us that there was some damage to 
his wifes car following the incident, so I think it is likely the third-party vehicle was also 
damaged at this time. 
I appreciate Mr G may have been in shock when he logged his claim, but I dont think that 
means the information he provided would be inaccurate or couldnt be relied on. As I said, 
even if AXA had waited for the form before reaching its decision, I think its unlikely to have 
changed things. So, I dont think it needs to compensate Mr G for deciding liability before 
receiving his form back.
AXAs notes show it settled the claim without prejudice, this means Mr G has the opportunity 
to seek legal advice regarding the claim and he undertake legal action of his own if he so 
wishes. I think thats fair. 
I understand Mr Gs premium has increased as a result of the claim and while I know it is 
disappointing, I dont think AXA needs to compensate him for the increase in his car 
insurance premium, because overall I dont find its decision to accept liability was unfair or 
unreasonable. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr G, but I dont think AXA needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I have decided I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman