DRN-4194782
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reply to her correspondence, cancel her 
standing order or arrange a suitable repayment plan with her in writing. 
What happened
Mrs M says that she wrote to HSBC on 3 January 2023. The letter details that she spoke to 
HSBC when she had income problems through no fault of her own. She said she had 
difficulties getting through to HSBC on the phone, and there was background noise when 
she managed to get through to them. She said she would now be making payments on 15 
February, March, April for £345.94 and £370.82 in May then she would be up to date. She 
said she stated she wanted no telephone calls from HSBC, but they have harassed her with 
calls. 
As Mrs M received no reply to her letter, she wrote HSBC another letter on 13 April 2023 by 
recorded delivery, which was signed for. She said she tried to change her standing order, 
but they arent allowing her to do so, and she has been ignored by their online banking 
assistant. Mrs M said the daily calls still continue despite asking them to stop. She requested 
that she is allowed a holiday period or allowed to make lower, reduced payments, and they 
could then agree a steady monthly repayment from there. Mrs M made a complaint to 
HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They said their records show the last payment they 
received towards her personal loan was on 23 January 2023. They said there is no active 
standing order on the account. HSBC said she would need to ring their Financial Support 
Team (FST) to set up a repayment plan, and they gave her a telephone number to ring. 
They said alternatively she could email them, and they provided an email address. Mrs M 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said Mrs M did write to HSBC and it 
was successfully delivered, but the letter sent by her was not addressed to the correct 
department and the correct process was not followed to implement a new repayment plan, 
as Mrs M should have called HSBCs FST, and this doesnt seem to have happened.
Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said HSBC do not give any other address to write to, and they should be duty 
bound to forward it to the correct department, She said when she spoke to two people on 
separate occasions they were 100% unhelpful, and she didnt contact them again as she 
specifically asked for a repayment plan in writing which they did not do. They also didnt 
respond to her request regarding her standing order through online banking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mrs M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how their 
collections process should operate, including how they choose to arrange repayment plans, 
and the requirement to ring them to do so. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to its 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about her standing order and the live chats she had 
with HSBC. Ive also asked HSBC for further information regarding the setup of the standing 
order. HSBC have confirmed that there were no blocks on Mrs Ms account, and she set the 
standing order up to be paid monthly until further notice. They have also forwarded me the 
chat conversation so I can see what happened here. 
Mrs M used the chat facility on 19 February 2023. She asked for the standing order to be 
cancelled with immediate effect as she needed to change the amount. The chat agent 
proceeded to send a link for Mrs M to cancel the standing order. But Mrs M does not make 
any further comment on the webchat. So Im satisfied she was given the instructions of how 
to cancel the standing order. The following day she asks again, and the chat agent 
responds, then there is no follow up from Mrs M, and it doesnt appear she clicked on the 
relevant list of options she was given.
On 15 March 2023, Mrs M asks to amend the amount of the standing order. But she doesnt 
appear to select the option she was presented regarding if the standing order was due to 
debit her account in the next two working days. So I cant say that HSBC made an error with 
the standing order. This is because they gave her a link for her to cancel this, and on follow 
up chats Mrs M didnt answer the questions she was asked. HSBC have also confirmed to 
me that they are unable to cancel the standing order for her through the chat and this is why 
they provided her the link to do this herself. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about HSBC not responding to her correspondence. 
Mrs M has forwarded us a letter she sent to HSBCs customer service centre dated 3 
January 2023. But despite Mrs M saying HSBC didnt respond to this letter, they actually 
emailed her a response on 27 January 2023. I have cross referenced the email address they 
sent this email to, and it is the exact same email address that Mrs M gave to our service, so 
Im satisfied that HSBC did send her a response to her letter. So if Mrs M did not open this, 
or it went to her junk mail folder, I cant hold HSBC responsible for this as this would be out 
of their control. 
The email from HSBC is clear that to put a repayment plan in place, she would need to ring 
the FST, and the telephone number is given for her to ring them. She was told how she 
could stop calls. HSBC tells Mrs M that due to any inconvenience and upset caused over 
what happened, they would credit £50 compensation to her HSBC current account. I can 
confirm to Mrs M that the £50 was paid into her current account on 27 January 2023  the 
same day as HSBC emailed her. 
I agree with Mrs M that when she sent HSBC a letter by registered mail that they should 
have forwarded it to the relevant department. But Im not persuaded that if they did forward it 
to a relevant department this would have made any difference. I say this because Mrs Ms 
letter wasnt signed, so they wouldnt have been able to check their genuine customer was 
writing to them. 
But another reason why Im not persuaded it would have made a difference is because 
HSBC had already given the link for Mrs M to cancel the standing order, and I would not expect them to act on an unsigned letter (and they may not have been able to verify it was 
Mrs M even if the letter was signed). While Mrs M had asked them for a letter regarding a 
repayment holiday or reduced payments, they had already told her she needed to ring them 
about this. And while Mrs M has had bad experiences on the phone to HSBC, it is their 
process that a customer speaks to the FST for them to arrange a plan. So it follows I dont 
require HSBC to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman