DRN-3831164
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain Age Partnership Limited provided poor service and caused delay 
when they were arranging a further advance under their equity release mortgage.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr R had an equity release mortgage with a funder that theyd arranged through 
Age Partnership Limited (APL). In mid-February 2022 Mr R approached APL about 
accessing further funds to, amongst other things, make a purchase and carry out home 
improvements.
APL explained one of their advisers would review Mrs R and Mr Rs situation, research their 
options and be in touch. They said Mrs R and Mr R should allow up to six weeks for that 
process since they were very busy at the time. Mr R asked for reassurance theyd be in 
contact in the meantime and APL confirmed they would.
Mr R contacted APL for an update in early March. APL were waiting for information from the 
funder but let him know the results of their initial research on the options available to him and 
Mrs R. Once theyd heard from the funder, APL began processing an application to release 
further funds under the existing mortgage as the best option. 
The funder let APL know in mid-March that the application had been processed by them and 
that theyd let Mrs R and Mr R know that a surveyor would contact them to arrange a 
valuation. The valuer had difficulty in contacting them. APL provided Mrs R and Mr R with 
the surveyors contact details so they could arrange it direct. 
The valuation was done on around 21 March. APL let Mrs R and Mr R know on around      
22 March that it might take up to ten days for the funder to review the valuation. They were 
unhappy with that. On around 23 March APL asked the funder to prioritise their case. And on 
24 March the funder confirmed it was happy with the valuation and would issue an offer as 
soon as possible. 
At the end of March, the funder requested evidence of Mrs R and Mr Rs identity. APL 
queried the need for this since theyd previously checked it; they told the funder theyd had 
difficulty in contacting it by phone; and they said Mrs R and Mr R were frustrated with the 
time their application was taking. They updated Mr R shortly afterwards.
The funder told APL an offer would be issued by close of business on around 4 April. APL 
passed that information on to Mr R. He let APL know the offer hadnt arrived by then and 
APL chased the funder to see where it was. Mr R was in direct contact with the funder to 
finalise the arrangements. And the matter completed a couple of days later. 
Mrs R and Mr R were unhappy with the service APL had provided and the time things had 
taken. They felt APL were to blame based on their experience of having to chase for 
updates, the service theyd received and what the funder had told them about APLs 
handling of things. They asked APL to agree to reduce their fee to £300. APL didnt feel that 
was warranted. Mrs R and Mr R had already benefited from a reduction on their usual fee, 
and they didnt agree theyd provided a poor service.
Mrs R and Mr R complained. APL didnt uphold their complaint. So, they brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought APL had managed Mrs R and      
Mr Rs expectations as to how long their application might take; the overall time taken was 
fair; APL hadnt caused delays; theyd asked the funder to prioritise the application and 
theyd chased the funder to progress it. He didnt uphold their complaint.
Since Mrs R and Mr R didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mrs R and Mr R were unhappy with the service APL provided. I can 
understand they were keen to get their further advance application through as quickly as 
possible. Theyve said they almost lost out on the purchase they were planning to make and 
had paid a deposit on. I can understand they may have found the time the application took 
frustrating and stressful because of that. But theyd taken a risk in committing to a purchase 
before they knew the outcome as there was no guarantee their application would succeed or 
how long it would take. And, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think APL made any mistakes 
that mean it would be fair for me to ask them to reduce their fee or pay compensation.
Mrs R and Mr R have noted APL and the funder no longer work together, and that the funder 
blames APL for that. APL blame the funder. I dont think its helpful to speculate about what 
may have happened there. Its not relevant to this complaint. Whats at issue is the service 
APL provided to Mrs R and Mr R in their individual circumstances. 
I note Mrs R and Mr R are sceptical about the accuracy of APLs records. But I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think they werent made at the time or that theyve been altered 
later. The funders records broadly mirror APLs in terms of the communications between 
them and timescales. So, I think its reasonable to think APLs records correctly reflect what 
happened.
APL managed Mr Rs expectations in his initial phone call with them about the steps theyd 
take and the timescales. And they confirmed theyd be in contact during that period.  
Mr R queried why APL were checking information he felt they ought to have on file from their 
initial application. APL wanted to ensure it was up to date. I think it was reasonable for APL 
to check Mrs R and Mr Rs circumstances hadnt changed as that might have affected the 
outcome of their application.
APL told Mrs R and Mr R towards the end of February 2022 it would only take a few days for 
the funder to provide information for them to base their review on. So, I can understand why 
Mr R was frustrated by lack of progress in early March. But APL said there were current 
delays on the part of the funder, that they were chasing, and they explained the need for the 
information they were requesting. APLs internal notes confirm they were experiencing 
delays with the funder. I note Mr R has doubts about that but Ive no reason to think that 
wasnt the case. 
APL were in contact with Mr R throughout the application process. Whilst I acknowledge    
Mr R initiated some of that contact, and hed have liked there to have been more, APL 
generally responded in a timely way when he got in touch. And they acted reasonably to progress things as quickly as possible. For example:
A valuation of Mrs R and Mr Rs property was required and arranged by the funder. 
When the valuer was unable to get hold of Mrs R and Mr R by telephone, APL got 
involved to arrange contact. 
Mr R was unhappy APL gave him conflicting information about when the funder 
would consider the valuation. APL fairly apologised for that. And they persuaded the 
funder to consider the valuation more quickly than its usual timeframe.
APL chased the funder when there was a problem in uploading identity information to 
its portal. When Mr R asked APL to query the need for the additional identity 
information, APL acted promptly on his request, chased the funder to issue an offer, 
and followed up when the offer didnt arrive on the date the funder had promised. 
Overall, Im not persuaded APL caused any unreasonable delays in progressing Mrs R and 
Mr Rs application or that the service they provided was unreasonable. Theyd let them know 
they were very busy. I wouldnt expect APL to have been providing Mrs R and Mr R with 
updates when there was nothing to report. Im satisfied they responded to Mrs R and Mr Rs 
requests for information in a timely way. They took steps to speed up the process where 
they could. And the application completed broadly in line with the estimated timescales APL 
had provided at the outset. 
APL had already discounted their usual fee for dealing with Mrs R and Mr Rs application at 
the beginning of the transaction. Given the work they undertook, APLs fee doesnt seem 
unreasonable. Bearing everything in mind, I dont think there are grounds on which it would 
be fair to ask APL to reduce their fee further or to ask APL to compensate them. So, whilst I 
understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman