DRN-3801095
The complaint
Miss T complains Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) caused unnecessary delays after she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Tesco involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Tesco
What happened
On 12 May 2022 Miss T had an accident whilst driving her car and she reported it to her 
motor insurance provider - Tesco. 
Tesco accepted Miss Ts claim. It gave her the details of its approved repair garage and told 
her to contact it straight away to arrange for the repairs to be completed and said that the 
garage would organise a courtesy car whilst the repairs were taking place.
Miss T tried to contact the approved garage, but it did not call her back. Tesco gave her 
details of an alternative approved garage. This garage organised to complete the repairs on 
31 August 2022. This was then further delayed to 25 October 2022.
In August 2022 Miss T organised for the repairs to be completed by her own garage. She 
said Tesco did not offer this option to her previously. And that the delay had caused her a lot 
of distress. The repairs took five-days, but her garage did not supply a courtesy car whilst it 
was being completed.
Miss T complains that no one assessed her car to check it was safe to drive. She also said 
that she tried several times to complain to Tesco and despite saying it would call her back it 
never did.
Tesco accepted there had been issues and paid Miss T £300 for the poor level of service 
given and the delay experienced.
As Miss T was not happy with Tesco, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said they felt the 
compensation already paid to Miss T was fair and reasonable. But they recommended that 
Tesco award a further £10 per day for the loss of use of her car for the duration of the 
repairs. This was five days.
As Tesco is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her complaint to us Miss T said her car was not assessed to check it was safe to drive. I 
have not seen any evidence that she advised Tesco at any point that she felt her car was 
unsafe. I looked at the report of the damage Miss T reported to Tesco when she made the 
claim and it was minimal damage. I think that there was nothing reported that suggested 
there was a need to conduct an assessment or to get the car to a garage quickly.
I looked at the timeline of this claim. The claim was made on 12 May 2022 and Tesco 
organised for an approved repair garage to complete the repairs. I saw that Miss T tried to 
contact the approved garage multiple times in May 2022 to progress the repairs but had no 
success. I saw Tesco also tried to contact the approved garage itself. Also without any 
success.
The repairs were eventually booked in for 31 August 2022 with another of Tescos approved 
repairers, but in mid -August this date was changed to 25 October 2022.
I saw evidence of a number of calls from Miss T to Tesco of which she said she never 
received call backs as agreed. On 31 August 2022 Miss T spoke to Tesco  about its failure 
to communicate with her and that her car wasnt going to be repaired until towards the end of 
October 2022. 
At this point Tesco confirmed Miss T could use a non approved repairer as the only other 
option. This is more than three months after she made the claim. Miss T asked if she would 
be able to have a courtesy car whilst the car was in for repairs. Tesco said this would be 
down to her own garage whether they gave her one.
In September 2020, Miss T obtained a quote for the repairs, this was authorised by Tesco 
and the repairs were completed. 
I saw that Tesco accepted that there were service issues which caused delays in Miss Ts 
claim. It accepted Miss T had not been contacted by anyone despite sending emails and 
making telephone calls for updates.
As there was no explanation from Tescos approved repairers regarding the delays it paid  
Miss T £300 in compensation for the poor level of service provided. 
After considering the time taken to progress the repairs to Miss Ts car and the 
inconvenience caused to her when she tried to contact Tesco and its approved repairer to 
progress her claim, I think £300 is a fair and reasonable amount. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and on page 17 it says;
Section D Courtesy Car
To keep you mobile, within the geographical limits only, we will offer you a small courtesy
car (typically a small city car), while the car is being repaired by one of our approved 
repairers following an insured incident that has resulted in a claim under your policy
It also says on page 18;
What is not covered
 A courtesy car will not be provided if you do not use one of our approved repairers.
This confirms that as Miss T had the repairs completed by her own repairer, Tesco do not 
have to provide a courtesy car, under the terms of the policy.
As Tesco had been unable to organise to complete the repairs with its own approved 
repairers in a reasonable timeframe Miss T was given the choice whether she wanted to use 
her own repairer which she chose to do. However this option was not offered until August 
2022, which was approximately three months after the incident. Miss T would have used Tescos authorised repairer if she had been able to, and if Tesco 
had been able to  organise to conduct the repairs in a reasonable time she would have been 
provided with a courtesy car during the repairs. 
Tesco have said that its payment of £300 to compensate Miss T is fair and should take into 
account the five days she was without her car. However I think it is fair to pay the loss of use 
of her car of £10 per day in addition to the £300 already paid for the poor level of service 
delays  caused.
Therefore, I uphold Miss Ts complaint and require Tesco to pay Miss T £50 for the five days 
she was without a car.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Miss T a further £50 for the duration of time she 
was without a car whist the repairs were completed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman