DRN-3713850
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the change in Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
overdraft charging structure was unfair and is making it difficult to pay her overdraft back.
 What happened
In August 2017 Halifax gave notice that it was changing its charging structure in relation to 
its overdraft facility. This was to come into effect in November 2017. Similar communications 
were also sent out in 2019 and 2020. Within all communications Halifax asked customers to 
get in contact with it if they were struggling financially and provided details of external debt 
charities which could offer advice.
Mrs S complained to Halifax regarding the overdraft fees applied to her account since 
November 2017. She says they have impacted her personal situation.
Halifax say all fees were applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and that it wrote to Mrs S giving advance notice that it was changing the way in which it 
charged customers for using an arranged overdraft. 
Halifax says it encouraged Mrs S to get in touch if she needed assistance to manage her 
finances because of these changes and offered help with budgeting advice but that she 
didnt get in touch and declined speaking to its financial assistance team. To further assist 
Mrs S it but a stop on daily overdraft fees for 30 days and made a goodwill payment of £100 
towards her overdraft fees.
Mrs S was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion Halifax hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
The crux of Mrs Ss complaint is about the change in Halifaxs charging structure has made 
her overdraft difficult to pay back and that Halifax has failed to assist her with this. But before 
I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Halifax charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifax various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ss account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs S was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mrs S fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because Mrs S was given advance notice in August 2017 about the change in 
charging structure and asked to get in touch if she was going to struggle financially with 
these changes. Halifax also wrote to her on other occasions regarding her overdraft usage 
and advising her of the help available and encouraging her to get in touch. Although I can 
see Mrs S had some contact with Halifax prior to bringing her complaint in 2022 it was never 
regarding its charges or notifying it of any financial difficulties. 
So Ive looked at Mrs Ss statements to see if there is anything to suggest that Halifax ought 
to have realised Mrs S might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
Although Mrs S was using her overdraft this in by itself isnt an indication that someone may 
be in financial difficulty. I can see there were regular deposits and large cash transfers into 
the account which at times paid off the overdraft or significantly reduced it. And at times 
there were transfers to other accounts in Mrs Ss name. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs Ss expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
and at times large amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions.
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs S wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted Halifax to 
any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account each month 
didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any 
stage either. 
 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Ss account was being used.
I understand that Mrs S would have liked Halifax to provide her with an alternative solution to 
paying back her overdraft when it changed its charging structure, but Halifax are under no 
obligation to provide this just as Mrs S is also free to shop around if she isnt happy with 
what is on offer.
And so having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mrs S unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman