DRN-4160267
The complaint
Mr D has complained that ReAssure Life Limited wouldnt allow him to transfer  either fully 
or partially  his personal pension plan (PPP) to a new pension provider. Although ReAssure 
did later agree to the transfer, this was some four months after hed initially submitted the 
request, and Mr D has said that he lost out on investment growth within the receiving plan. 
What happened
On 8 July 2022, ReAssure wrote to Mr D to explain that nine funds within Mr Ds pension 
plan had been suspended due to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. The letter confirmed that Mr 
Ds annual statement included a list of the funds he was invested in and also said the 
following:
It means you cant pay in, or take money out, of any suspended Russian-linked fund.
On 14 July 2022, the new pension provider, Parmenion, wrote to ReAssure, confirming that 
Mr D had requested a transfer from ReAssure and enclosing his signed authority for the 
transfer to be processed. Parmenion requested fund information, including a valuation of all 
funds.
ReAssure wrote to Mr D on 20 July 2022 and provided him with his current pension
value, which was £62,731.99. The letter also included a transfer payment release form.
Shortly afterwards, Parmenion sent an email to ReAssure dated 28 July 2022 requesting an
update on the transfer. A follow-up letter was sent to ReAssure on 1 August 2022 requesting 
an update.
ReAssure contacted Mr D on 8 August 2022 and again confirmed his fund value and
enclosed a transfer payment release form.
Parmenion sent another letter to ReAssure on 15 August 2022 requesting an update on
Mr Ds transfer.
On 19 August 2022, Parmenion emailed ReAssure and said the following:
I am writing in reference to Mr D's transfer from Reassure into Parmenion. We have 
received correspondence from the clients IFA that they request that all available
funds be transferred over into our management leaving any suspended assets with
yourselves.
Please can you facilitate the request and proceed with the transfer.
ReAssure wrote to Mr D on 24 August 2022 and provided an update. It said the following:
We can confirm that after thorough investigations we are unable to proceed with a 
partial/full transfer of the policy in subject.
Due to the current situation with Russia, it is uncertain when these funds will be available.
However, when these funds become available we will write to yourself and your financial
advisor that we are able to facilitate a transfer.
Parmenion contacted ReAssure on 2 and 5 September 2022 asking for fund information
and updates. On 8 September 2022, ReAssure replied and confirmed a breakdown
of the funds in which Mr D was invested.
Parmenion requested another update on Mr Ds transfer on 20 September 2022 and, on the 
following day, ReAssure replied to Parmenion with a breakdown of funds. This letter
confirmed Mr Ds fund had increased to £63,049.60.
The investigator said that she didnt have a copy of the complaint submitted by Mr Ds 
financial adviser but she was aware of ReAssures final response letter of 21 September 
2022, within which it said the following:
- It understood that Mr D was unhappy because he couldnt transfer his fund, due to 
being invested in a suspended fund
- Any suspended fund Mr D was invested in would show a zero value and couldnt be 
transferred
- The fund managers responsible for the suspension were external and, therefore, the 
matter was outside of its control
The investigator said that she hadnt seen the financial advisers reply to this letter, however, 
ReAssure sent a further response via email on 29 September 2022. Within it, ReAssure said 
the following:
The assessments by our Product & Governance team are carried out on a case by case
basis as it is that an exception can be made under exceptional circumstances. The standard
procedure is that transfers cannot be processed on plans invested in suspended funds as
stated in previous correspondence.
I have discussed this case with a Senior Manager within the team as requested. We feel that
we have expressed and explained that a transfer out from a suspended fund which has been
checked by our specialist team at this time it is not possible.
From 11 October 2022 to 14 November 2022, Parmenion sent four further requests for 
updates and information, until, on 24 November 2022, a full transfer of Mr Ds fund was sent 
to Parmenion.
Once Mr D had referred the matter to this service, the investigator contacted ReAssure in 
December 2022 and asked it the following:
- What constitutes an exceptional circumstance?
- Why was Mr D unable to transfer the assets which were not invested in Russian-
linked funds?
ReAssure responded to say that the transfer had completed in full on 24 November 2022. It 
also confirmed exceptional circumstances would include financial hardship or health issues 
and Mr D couldnt have a partial transfer because his policy didnt offer that option. 
Therefore, it became a business decision as to whether ReAssure would allow the transfer.In response, the investigator contacted ReAssure and highlighted how, in July 2022, the
regulator of the industry, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), released guidance to
businesses on how they could help and protect their customers invested in suspended
funds.
In particular, the investigator noted that section 1.7 of PS22/8 said the following:
Side pockets would give AFMs the option to separate affected investments from the funds
other investments. The funds existing classes of units would no longer reflect the value of
these affected investments, but the value of units in a new unit class would be determined
only by reference to the affected investments. The existing unitholders at the time the side
pocket is created would receive units in the side pocket class, giving them the right to a
portion of the affected investments. Side pockets therefore could allow:
 new investors to enter the fund without sharing in the exposure to the affected investments
 existing investors to sell the units which relate to assets that are not affected investments
 some funds to end their current suspension of dealing
The investigator thought that this guidance was relevant to the situation in which Mr D found 
himself, and so she asked ReAssure why it took four months to approve the transfer, when it 
couldve been accepted and facilitated sooner.
ReAssure replied, but, in the investigators view, only reiterated how suspended funds 
couldnt be transferred ordinarily, and transfers would only be approved under exceptional 
circumstances.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in 
summary:
The issue stemmed from unprecedented circumstances, which were outside of both 
Mr Ds and ReAssures control.
But ReAssure had repeatedly said that transfer requests which included suspended 
funds would be considered on a case by case basis and could be approved in 
exceptional circumstances.
As the transfer did proceed in November 2022, the investigator had asked what 
exceptional circumstances had applied in this case, but ReAssure hadnt confirmed 
what the deciding the factor was in this case.
Now that the transfer had completed, she needed to consider whether Mr D had 
been impacted financially or otherwise by the delay.
ReAssure had confirmed that it received the completed transfer payment release 
form for Mr Ds transfer on 8 August 2022. 
Allowing ten working days for the transfer to be processed, this meant that Mr Ds 
transfer could have been processed by 22 August 2022.The investigator recommended that ReAssure calculate any loss Mr D had suffered by 
determining the notional value of the pension from ReAssure and subtracting the current 
value of his pension from that notional value. 
The investigator said that any loss should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ds pension plan, 
but if this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr D with a notional deduction for the 
(assumed) basic rate income tax which he would have paid on the post tax free cash 
benefits  amounting to 15% on the redress amount.
Mr D accepted the investigators recommendation, but ReAssure disagreed, saying the 
following in summary:
The FCAs statement referred to by the investigator was only guidance and wasnt 
mandatory for businesses.
It had a duty to protect its customers who were invested in suspended funds, and 
whilst Mr Ds case was reviewed, the business decision was to not allow a transfer at 
the time.
Although Mr Ds financial adviser had requested a partial transfer, this wasnt 
permissible on this type of plan. Its specialist Product Governance Department 
reviewed exceptional circumstances and confirmed that transfers couldnt be 
processed on plans invested in suspended funds. This was similar in nature to the 
situation when property funds had been suspended previously.
The Fund Managers were external to ReAssure.
It had informed Mr D that a transfer wouldnt be possible because of the suspended 
funds on 12 March 2022 and then again on 8 July 2022  this predated the request 
from Mr D/his adviser to transfer the plan.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view of the matter, however, saying that 
although ReAssure had said that it wasnt possible to facilitate a full or partial transfer, this 
did then happen in November 2022. And although shed enquired as to what had changed in 
that period to allow the transfer to happen, she hadnt received a response.
On balance, she considered that the decision to allow the transfer could have been made 
earlier, and so she remained of the view that ReAssure should determine whether this had 
caused Mr D a financial loss.
ReAssure then responded to say that the reason the plan could be transferred in November 
2022 was that it was no longer invested in suspended funds. It provided a copy of the 
message which it sent to Mr D on 17 November 2022 advising him that this was the case, 
and that a full cash transfer value was available for the plan.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 April 2023, in which I set out my reasons for partially 
upholding the complaint. The following is a an extract from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly comment that I accept the point ReAssure has made about it being entitled to make, and implement, legitimate business decisions on its pension plans. And Im satisfied 
that it has now provided the rationale as to why the full transfer could be facilitated in 
November 2022.
In essence, for the period in which Mr D was invested in suspended funds, the policy 
couldnt be fully transferred. This position changed in November 2022, as ReAssure has 
latterly confirmed that Mr Ds plan was no longer invested in suspended funds. And this was 
why Mr D was by that time able to transfer his pension funds.
But ReAssure nevertheless needed to clearly communicate the rationale for why it couldnt, 
and then could, transfer Mr Ds plan. So Ive then thought carefully about whether ReAssure 
has treated Mr D fairly in terms of the provision of information about why he wasnt able to 
transfer his plan, and why this position changed in November 2022. 
ReAssure did set out its rationale as to why the pension plan couldnt be transferred in 
March and July 2022. And whilst I note that it wasnt brought specifically to the investigators 
attention until March 2023 that the reason for the change in position was that the plan was 
no longer invested in suspended funds by November 2022, this had nevertheless been 
communicated to Mr D (or his financial adviser) at the time.
Therefore, whilst this has perhaps drawn out the complaint handling aspect of the matter 
longer than should have been the case, I dont think I could fairly and reasonably conclude 
that ReAssure has treated Mr D unfairly here in terms of communicating why a full transfer 
wasnt possible before November 2022.
But there remains the matter of ReAssure clearly communicating to Mr D as to why a partial 
transfer wasnt possible. As noted by both the investigator and reassure, the FCA issued 
guidance relating to this type of position, and whilst ReAssure has said that, as guidance, it 
wasnt mandatory for it to adhere to this, I nevertheless think that, to comply with its 
obligation to clearly communicate with Mr D  and treat him fairly  it ought to have offered 
more of an explanation as to why it was unwilling to facilitate a partial transfer before 
November 2022.
In the course of the investigation, ReAssure has said that a partial transfer wasnt 
permissible on the plan, which might suggest a prohibition on this within the terms (which as 
far as Im aware hasnt been provided), but has also at other points alluded to this being a 
decision made by its Product Governance Department.
But I dont think the actual rationale for Mr D not being able to partially transfer the non-
suspended funds has been adequately explained to either this service  or more importantly 
- to Mr D. And as such, I think Mr D will have been left confused and concerned as to why 
this wasnt possible  and what this might mean for the future of his pension funds. After all, 
whilst ReAssure said in its letters about the fund suspensions that Mr D should refer to the 
terms of his policy to see if hed be able to withdraw from his pension plan, I can well 
imagine that Mr D might also have had concerns about his ability to partially access his 
pension funds at all.
And so, whilst I dont think the complaint should be upheld on the basis of Mr D not being 
able to transfer his pension plan sooner than November 2022  as I think ReAssure was 
entitled to make this decision - I currently think that ReAssure should pay Mr D £100 in 
respect of what I consider to be the unnecessary uncertainty and concern caused to him for 
several months up to the point that it was effectively resolved in November 2022.   
I asked the parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make by 23 May 
2023. Neither party has made any further points in response to the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
As set out in the provisional decision, ReAssure Life Limited should pay Mr D £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint and direct ReAssure Life Limited to 
pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman