DRN-3542054
The complaint
Mr W complains Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited trading as My Community Bank (MCB) 
unfairly defaulted his loan account following his period of financial difficulty caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr W took out a £10,000 loan with MCB. It was to last 48 months with 
monthly instalments of £262.
In March 2020, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr W was unable to work 
therefore he couldnt afford the monthly instalments. In response, MCB agreed to a 30 day 
hold on the account. In May 2020, they agreed to accept reduced payments of £10 up to 
September 2020. They also confirmed no adverse information would be recorded on his 
credit file during that time. 
As the payment plan was coming to an end, in August 2020 MCB spoke to Mr W to see if he 
could return to paying the contractual amounts. He said he couldnt and they agreed to 
extend the plan until October 2020. In November and December 2020, MCB attempted to 
contact Mr W to discuss the account. As they were unable to speak with him and the 
contractual payments werent resumed, MCB defaulted the account.
In January 2021, Mr W told MCB his financial situation remained the same. They agreed to 
continue the £10 a month repayment plan until July 2021. They also told him the account 
had been defaulted. In August 2021, having secured alternative employment Mr W 
increased the payments to £100 a month. Unhappy about the default, Mr W complained. 
MCB said they provided support during Mr Ws period of financial difficulty but as there was 
no indication he could afford the loan any more, it wasnt in his best interest to allow the debt 
to increase so they acted fairly by defaulting the account. 
Dissatisfied with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded MCB had acted fairly by 
providing financial support but as Mr W was unable to resume making the contractual 
payments, they acted reasonably by defaulting the account. 
Mr W disagreed. In summary, he said the pandemic was an unforeseen event and this was 
the cause of his financial difficulties. He said once the payment plan came to an end, MCB 
didnt provide any other options such as restructuring the loan or taking into consideration 
his ability to pay at least £100 a month. He added a default should be the last resort and by 
applying the same, significant detriment has been caused to his credit file. He said he has 
now returned to his regular employment and he is willing to bring the account up to date or 
settle the loan in full in order to remove the default.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint, Ill explain why.
 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a result of the pandemic, I understand Mr W was unable to work because the events 
industry in which he worked had been significantly impacted and he wasnt in receipt of any 
income. He told MCB that he was unlikely to return to work until September 2020 and all he 
could afford to pay was £10 a month. Based on the evidence Ive seen, it appears the 
account was up to date up to that point so its fair to say the pandemic was the cause of his 
financial difficulty. Im sorry to hear this and I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for 
Mr W especially in such unforeseen circumstances.
In instances of financial difficulty, I expect financial businesses such as MCB to treat their 
consumers with forbearance and due consideration as outlined in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Theres not a defined list as to 
what supportive measures should be applied but it may include accepting reduced 
payments, waiving interest, applying a payment deferral, etc. In this case, I can see MCB 
agreed to apply a 30 day hold on the account in March 2020 meaning they wouldnt take 
payment
In April 2020, the FCA released guidance to financial businesses which outlined the 
immediate and temporary support to be provided to consumers who were negatively 
impacted by the pandemic. It said payment deferrals should be agreed for up to six months 
and no adverse information should be applied to a consumers credit file during that time. 
In this case, although a payment deferral wasnt applied in the strictest sense of the 
guidance (meaning no payment required), MCB agreed to accept £10 per month and said 
they wouldnt record any adverse information on Mr Ws credit file. I also note they extended 
this by a further month in October 2020. This meant from March to October 2020 (around 
eight months), MCB provided support to Mr W during his time of financial difficulty. In light of 
the same, Im satisfied MCB acting fairly and in the spirit of the FCAs guidance which was to 
provide immediate and temporary support to Mr W. 
The FCA released further guidance about what happens when the six month support comes 
to an end but the consumer is still experiencing financial difficulty. This included but not 
limited to, gathering information about the consumers incoming and outgoing expenses and 
offering suitable support options. The expectation was businesses should take reasonable 
attempts to reach an agreement for the missed payments to be paid and to treat the 
consumers fairly when considering whether to take further action such as a default. The 
guidance makes it clear whatever the support offered, it shouldnt be against the consumers 
best interest. Here, I believe MCB has acted fairly when applying this further guidance. Ill 
explain why.
Based on MCBs contact notes, once the six month support period had ended I find they 
made reasonable efforts to contact Mr W in November and December 2020 to discuss the 
account however they were unable to speak to him. There was no indication his financial circumstances had improved, he was able to resume paying the contractual instalments or 
pay back the missed payments. So I find MCBs decision to take further action by defaulting 
the account wasnt wholly unreasonable. I say this because the guidance for dealing with 
defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This says when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then a default may be 
registered and it would expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months behind with their payments.
In this case, Mr W was at least three months in arrears and it was apparent this would be a 
long term financial difficulty issue as he couldnt afford the instalments. Therefore rather than 
letting the level of debt and arrears increase, by defaulting the account all further interest 
and charges would no longer be applied. I consider this to be in Mr Ws best interest 
otherwise he wouldve ended up paying significantly more overall for the loan.
I note the terms of the agreement that in such instances where default proceedings would be 
initiated, MCB would provide written notice to the consumer of their intentions. Despite my 
request for a copy of the same, this hasnt been provided by MCB which is disappointing. 
That said, I dont believe whether the notice was issued to Mr W wouldve materially 
changed the outcome. I say this because usually speaking a default notice would provide up 
to 30 days for the consumer to satisfy the default, that is pay the required amount as 
indicated by the business. On balance, if one was sent in November 2020, Im not 
persuaded Mr W wouldve been able to satisfy it as his financial circumstances remained 
unchanged and he could only afford £10 per month. So inevitably, the account wouldve still 
defaulted. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws comments that MCB shouldve extended the loan term or 
restructured it. These are options mentioned in the FCAs guidance that businesses may 
which to consider but I must stress this would depend on each individual circumstances of a 
consumer. Its not an automatic right. For the reasons explained above, I dont find MCB 
acted unreasonably by not considering such options as this appeared to be a long term 
financial difficulty issue. Overall, Im satisfied MCB acted fairly in deciding to default the 
account when it did. 
Based on what Ive seen, in August 2021 when Mr W found alternative employment and he 
increased the payments up to £100 a month. From my understanding, he has been paying 
this amount ever since. To my mind, as this was several months after the default and still 
considerably less than the contractual instalments, this further supports my opinion that Mr 
Ws financial difficulty was a long term issue. He wasnt able to resume paying the 
contractual payments in a reasonable period of time once the six months of financial support 
ended. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied during Mr Ws time of financial difficulty, 
MCB treated him fairly by demonstrating forbearance and due consideration as I would 
expect. As there was no indication Mr W was in a financial position to resume the contractual 
payments and pay back the missed payments within a reasonable period of time, I find MCB 
acted fairly by defaulting the account so I wont be asking them to remove it.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed by my outcome but I hope he accepts my findings. I 
wish to remind MCB if Mr W continues to experience financial difficulty, I expect them to treat 
him with continued forbearance and due consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman