DRN-2322815
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he bought through a Hire Purchase agreement was not of 
satisfactory quality and believes that Close Brothers Limited (CBL) should pay for the repairs 
carried out on his car and for the costs he incurred as a result.
What happened
On 1 April 2017 Mr M entered into a Hire Purchase agreement with CBL for a second-hand 
car. The car was registered on 30 July 2016, which means it was about eight months old at 
the time of purchase. The price of the car was £17,098 and it had travelled 9,446 miles. Mr 
M put down an advanced payment of £1,619 which meant that the credit agreement was for 
£15,479, payable over 49 months.
 
In May 2020, Mr Ms car broke down and was recovered to a garage. At that time the total 
mileage was 30,424. Later that month the garage confirmed, through a diagnostic report that 
the high-pressure fuel pump (HPFP) had failed and that a replacement was needed. He 
was quoted £2,700 for the repairs. On 17 May 2020 Mr M complained to CBL and asked that 
they pay for the repairs. However, in phone call to Mr M, CBL advised that theyd require 
evidence that the fault was present at the time the car was sold to him.
On 10 June 2020 CBL sent their final response letter to Mr M confirming their position that 
they required him to get an experts report demonstrating that the issue with his car was 
present when he purchased it. On 15 June 2020 Mr M advised CBL that hed got his car 
repaired by a certified mechanic as he was obliged to do so for work. The mechanic 
repairing his car provided a report which advised that the fuel pump required an upgrade.
Mr M sent the report and the invoices to CBL requesting that they reimburse him for the 
costs of the repair. CBL confirmed to Mr M that they felt the report didnt go far enough to 
confirm that the issue was present when the car was bought.
Unhappy with their response Mr M brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators 
looked into his concerns. They recommended that CBL cover the costs of the repairs 
because they determined that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
CBL disagreed with the investigators view, explaining that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
points out the burden of proof is on the consumer to show that the issue was present at the 
time of purchase, and that there are many other potential reasons why the fuel pump could 
have failed.
 
CBL requested that this complaint is reviewed by an ombudsman. So, this matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh, and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As 
such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about whether the quality 
of the car supplied by CBL was of satisfactory quality.
 
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from Mr Ms description of events, the report provided and the correspondence 
from CBL addressing the situation. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive had to 
consider whether the problem existed at the time of supply. 
I find it unlikely that a reasonably durable HPFP would fail within the early years of a 
vehicles life. Ive spoken to the authorised repairer that carried out the original diagnostics 
on the HPFP. Theyve confirmed to me that the component is not considered to be a wear 
and tear product, this means it has no scheduled or change intervals; nor is it an item thats 
serviceable. In normal conditions a HPFP like the one in question, is expected to last the life 
span of the vehicle and therefore significantly longer than it did in Mr Ms case. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr M hadnt looked after his car appropriately. He said 
the car had been serviced regularly. So, I cant say that the failure of the HPFP was brought 
on by anything that Mr M had done. When Mr M purchased the car, it was about eight 
months old and had travelled 9,446 miles. When the pump failed the car had travelled a 
further 20,988 miles over 37 months. I dont think this distance is excessive in relation to 
the failure. In addition, the mechanics report said the HPFP was a sealed unit and 
likely to be an internal fault. I think its fair to say that in the circumstances a reasonable 
person wouldnt expect the HPFP to fail after this period of time. From the evidence provided 
I think its more likely than not that the HPFP was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
CBL have referred to the CRA, pointing out that Mr M will need to prove the issue was 
present at the point of sale. However the CRA says that to be considered satisfactory, goods 
should be durable, which taking into consideration the general condition, age and mileage of 
the car I cant say that it was. Having considered everything, on balance I think its more likely than not that the HPFP 
failed prematurely and I think this indicates there was already a problem with the car at the 
point it was supplied. 
In their response to our investigators view, CBL pointed out that the cause of the failure 
hasnt yet been established. For example, it could have occurred due to fuel contamination, 
over heating or the gears in the pump wearing out. I understand that these are just a few of 
the conditions that may reduce or shorten the life of a HPFP. However, as Ive explained 
earlier, from the information provided Ive not been presented with any evidence suggesting 
that Mr M had caused any of these conditions in the three years he used the car. 
Mr M had arranged for the repairs to be carried out prior to obtaining a further report as 
requested by CBL over the phone and in their final response letter. Mr M explained that hed 
received CBLs final response prior to the car being repaired. Mr M explained that his 
employment required the use of a car and he was obliged to repair it. Ive thought carefully 
about this situation. Had Mr M arranged further diagnostics to rule out all other potential 
causes, I cant say with any confidence that the time taken to do so wouldnt have caused 
further delay and potentially some degree of detriment to his employment. I think its fair to 
say Mr M was concerned about the impact this could have his employment. In the 
circumstances I dont think that Mr M acted unreasonably in having his car repaired when he 
did, and I think he mitigated his potential future losses by doing so.
Considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think CBL should reimburse Mr M for 
the repairs and costs involved in diagnosing and replacing the HPFP. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and instruct Close Brothers Limited to pay to 
Mr M:
£60 for the diagnosis carried out by the approved repairer
£97.66 for the recovery of the car to the approved repairer
£1,242.22 for the recovery of the car from the approved repairer and for parts and 
labour in repairing the car 
Close Brothers Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman