DRN-3434456
The complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis), irresponsibly granted her a credit 
card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2021 Miss M entered into an agreement with Vanquis to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. 
Miss M says that Vanquis didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her 
credit card account. She says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable 
for her as she didnt have enough income to make repayments.
Vanquis didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Miss Ms financial circumstances before granting her the credit account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Vanquis didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss M didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Vanquis looked into Miss Ms financial situation. Miss Ms card 
application details showed her as having an annual income of around £13,000 plus monthly 
housing costs of £100. Vanquis then went on to estimate her overall monthly living costs and 
other expenditure and therefor her estimated disposable income. It also completed a credit 
check that showed she had around £1,500 in unsecured borrowing and ongoing credit 
commitments that went with those. There were also no defaults against any of her borrowing 
and nor were there court judgments registered against her. 
Miss M says that Vanquis should have prevented her from continuing to use her card due to 
other loans she had and arrears on her credit file. I think the checks carried out by Vanquis 
ought to have indicated it was likely that Miss M was overly reliant on borrowing and that 
further borrowing may not have been sustainable. I say this having noted that Miss M tended 
to use her card for cash transactions rather than purchases. Had it gone on to increase her 
credit limit I think it therefore would have been proportionate for Vanquis to have got a more 
thorough understanding of her financial circumstances before doing so, but it chose not to 
increase Miss Ms credit limit. And going forward from the opening of the account, I havent 
seen enough clear signs of difficulty for me to have expected Vanquis to have become 
concerned about Miss Ms financial circumstances or to have acted any differently. 
Taking into account everything Ive seen I consider that the checks carried out by Vanquis 
showed it was likely that the credit card account was affordable for her. I say this given that 
Vanquis was aware of Miss Ms income, had taken reasonable and proportionate steps to 
estimate her committed expenditure and daily outgoings, based on which it had set an 
opening credit limit. Vanquis calculated that Miss M would have sufficient disposable income 
to manage her Vanquis card alongside her existing financial commitments. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Miss M has been able to demonstrate that her credit card agreement with Vanquis was 
unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Vanquis ought to have known she would 
struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Vanquis acted unfairly in 
approving her for the card. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman