DRN-3405662
The complaint
Mr H complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (Bupa) didnt tell him that his cover under a 
group private medical insurance scheme had ended. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H had cover through his former employers group scheme. His former employer, 
as the policyholder, asked Bupa in June 2021 to end Mr Hs cover as of May 2021. I 
understand thats because Mr H had left his employment. Bupa did so. 
Although Mr H thinks it was Bupas responsibility to tell him that his cover had ended, 
I agree with our investigator that this was his former employers responsibility. Thats 
because the contract was between Bupa and Mr Hs former employer, rather than 
Bupa and Mr H. 
Bupa paid Mr H £50 as a gesture of goodwill, as he was upset that he was offered an 
individual policy three weeks after Bupa knew his cover under the group scheme had 
ended. The policy terms explain that a member can take out an individual policy 
within three months of the group cover ending, and that they should contact Bupa to 
do so. As it was Mr Hs former employers responsibility to make Mr H aware that his 
cover under the group scheme had ended, it would have been up to Mr H to have 
contacted Bupa if he wanted continuation cover. However, Bupa chose to paid Mr H 
£50 compensation for this, which was its decision. Though I dont find that Bupa did 
anything wrong here.
If Mr H has concerns about not being advised that his cover had ended, he should 
raise these with his former employer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman