DRN-4064540
The complaint
Mr A complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his loan application.
What happened
Mr A says he applied for a HSBC loan of £25,000 which was advertised at 3.4% interest. He 
says the application decision was delayed and he was eventually offered an interest rate of 
over 15%. Mr A says he is a long-term HSBC customer and would like to know why he 
wasnt offered the lower rate and why there was a delay. He says his car purchase 
increased by £2,500 as a result of the delay and says he eventually took out a loan at just 
over 3% interest.
HSBC says it carried out a credit check on the application and offered Mr A the loan but with 
a higher interest rate. It says it made clear the interest rate was indicative and subject to a 
full application. And says it gave Mr A general reasons why it offered a higher interest rate 
but cant provide exact reasons as that information is commercially sensitive.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC made clear the interest rate was indicative and the loan subject to approval 
checks. The investigator also thought HSBC had given Mr A details of the factors it 
considered.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says HSBC delayed the application process to place 
pressure on him to accept a higher interest rate. He accepts the interest advertised may not 
be offered but says his credit score was stable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I can see that Mr A accepts that any loan applicant may not receive the advertised interest 
rate and that any application is subject to credit checks. Im satisfied that HSBC loan advert 
made that position clear before Mr A applied for the loan. So, I dont think HSBC made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by deciding to offer Mr A the rate it did and that it acted as it said it 
would by assessing the application. I have looked carefully at HSBCs records and can see 
that it carried out appropriate credit checks on Mr As application which I am satisfied its 
obliged to carry out to ensure affordability.
I appreciate Mr A says he had a stable credit score but he hasnt provided his full credit 
report and so I cant comment any further on that point. But I have made clear that I can see 
from HSBCs records that it considered Mr As application and credit scored it. I also 
appreciate that Mr A would like to know further details about why HSBC offered the interest 
rate it did. But Im satisfied that HSBC has provided appropriate information to Mr A and isnt 
obliged to disclose what is likely to be commercially sensitive information.
I have not seen any evidence that HSBC deliberately delayed the loan application process to 
place pressure on customers to accept higher interest rate loans. I cant see how HSBC 
would have been aware of Mr As circumstances and cant fairly hold it responsible for Mr 
As car purchase increasing by £2,500.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to HSBC to decide if it offers a loan and at what interest rate 
just as its up to Mr A to decide if he wishes to accept it or take a loan out elsewhere. I dont 
think the delay in HSBC processing the loan application was particular significant and in any 
event Mr A decided not to proceed with it, as is of course his choice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman