DRN-3539736
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt reimbursed payments he made to an 
overseas investment firm, using his debit and credit cards with it.
What happened
Mr J invested with firm E after he found them through an online advert. He says his account 
manager promised to look after him and said hed be able to make money from the trading. 
Between September and November 2020, Mr J sent E £3,500 from his debit cards and 
£1,000 from his credit card.
Mr J has explained that he wanted to withdraw funds but his account manager wouldnt allow 
him to do this until hed deposited more funds. He then says nearly all his money was lost 
and he was contacted by another account manager from recovery, but he was told hed 
need to invest more to do the recovery. Mr J ended his relationship with E at this point and 
reported to Nationwide hed been the victim of a scam.
Nationwide ultimately didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said hed authorised the payments to 
E. It said it didnt hold any liability for the payments. And it said Mr J had no rights under the 
chargeback scheme.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
said that E was a genuine firm that was regulated overseas. She acknowledged that it no 
longer had the authority to operate in the UK, but that it did hold this authority when Mr J 
made the payments. She didnt think the pattern of spending ought to have prompted 
Nationwide to intervene on the payments to E. And she didnt think there was any option of 
recovery as E was a genuine firm. Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
but he didnt specify what he disagreed with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Nationwide has a duty to process payments requested by its customers. Its not in 
dispute that at the time these payments were made Mr J wanted to make them. And 
E was allowed to carry out business in the UK. So even if Nationwide had temporarily 
stopped any payments, it wouldve seen they were going to a firm that had regulatory 
permission to act in the UK  so not an unregulated firm or firm with any regulatory 
warnings against it.
The typical spending on Mr Js current accounts means the payments to E dont 
stand out as particularly high value or unusual. He frequently receives high sums into 
the accounts and sends high value payments. And by the time Mr J sent the highest 
value payment, E was a known payee. Also giving Nationwide no reason to intervene 
at the time the payments to E were made.
The two credit card payments were for £500 each. I dont consider this warranted an 
intervention by Nationwide either as this is relatively low-level spending considering a 
credit card has been used and also the limit Mr J holds.
As Mr J invested with a firm that was allowed to operate in the UK and is regulated 
overseas, there isnt any recovery option for his funds. I accept that he couldnt 
successfully put in a chargeback claim on the debit cards as he used a genuine firm 
to invest and doesnt hold the evidence needed. And the same situation applies for 
credit card recovery  while he may be unhappy with the way his funds were invested 
and that he lost money, this isnt grounds for a successful Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act or chargeback claim. 
I accept Mr J may not have received the service he expected from E and its possible 
they used unethical tactics in order to encourage him to invest. But Nationwide isnt 
responsible for Es actions or how they marketed themselves. I see no reason for 
Nationwide to have stopped any of the payments to E and no way for it to later 
recover these funds for Mr J, so I dont hold it responsible for his loss here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman