DRN-2482354
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS) hasnt 
offered help while they experienced financial difficulties with their mortgage. 
They have recently been given a coronavirus payment deferral (payment holiday) on their 
mortgage and have asked why this help was not offered to them previously. 
Mr G has led the complaint throughout.
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with MAS following advice from a broker. 
Since then, some payments have been missed and the account has fallen into arrears. 
Unfortunately, in August 2017, Mr G had a road traffic accident and as a result, was off work 
for some time. At this point the mortgage was in arrears, and these increased as he found 
himself unable to work. Mrs G suffers ill health and is unable to work. Mr G spoke to MAS 
around this time and explained their circumstances and MAS asked him to provide 
information to assess what support could be offered. 
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs G took a payment deferral on their mortgage following guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. 
They questioned why this support was not offered with their mortgage in 2017 following 
Mr Gs road traffic accident and raised a complaint with MAS. 
MAS replied to say that it didnt receive the information it asked for to assess Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances and so it was limited in what help it could offer. It said that the recent payment 
deferrals have been provided due to the coronavirus outbreak and are not linked to Mr and 
Mrs Gs financial position or account history.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties that Mr and Mrs G have had over the years, Im sure this 
has been a worrying time for them. 
I can understand - in light of the support offered in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic  
that Mr and Mrs G are questioning why there were not offered similar support by MAS when 
they previously experienced difficulties paying their mortgage due to their circumstances. 
They feel let down that this wasnt offered when they needed it most following Mr Gs road 
traffic accident in 2017. 
When the UK entered a nationwide lockdown, the FCA issued guidance to lenders which 
allowed for a three-month payment deferral (later extended to six-months) to support 
borrowers affected financially. The guidance meant that no adverse recording on a 
customers credit file would be made during the time they were in a payment deferral. This 
was exceptional guidance, issued in light of the unprecedented circumstances to support 
borrowers for a limited six-month timeframe and so it would not have been available in the 
same way around the time that Mr G suffered his accident in 2017.
But, more generally, there are obligations on lenders to treat borrowers fairly when they are 
facing financial difficulties and they have a duty to help get the mortgage back on track.
Concessions may be offered by lenders depending on a borrowers circumstances  for 
example in the form of a payment deferral or a payment arrangement. But a borrower would 
need to provide a lender with information as to how any reduced payments could be made 
up before the end of the term. And so, its common for lenders to ask information  such as a 
borrowers income and expenditure  before agreeing to such concessions. 
Ive reviewed the contact between MAS and Mr and Mrs G in 2017. Mr G told MAS about his 
road traffic accident and that he was unable to work as a result. He was hoping to receive 
compensation from a dispute around the accident, but this was uncertain. 
I can see that on several occasions, MAS asked Mr and Mrs G to provide details of their 
income and expenditure to see what it could do to help. This is something Id expect it to do 
before agreeing to a concession to ensure that its affordable overall. Often, Mr G said hed 
call MAS back to provide this information. But when this information wasnt provided, MAS 
couldnt reasonably consider what options would be available to Mr and Mrs G in their 
individual circumstances. 
With this in mind, I dont consider it unreasonable that MAS didnt offer a concession such as 
a payment arrangement or payment deferral as it was unable to establish how this could 
affect Mr and Mrs G without the information it requested. Ultimately, a payment arrangement 
or deferral would still need to be made up. So whilst such concessions provide breathing 
space in the short term, they are not a long-term solution as the missed payments are 
added to the balance owed, with associated interest, and so monthly payments increase 
once the mortgage is re-calculated following the deferral period.
And as Ive explained, any payment deferral or arrangement would not have applied in the 
same way as the coronavirus payment deferrals. These were introduced due to exceptional 
nature of the circumstances and effect on earnings due to the lockdown, which is why the 
guidance stated that there should be no adverse recording to a credit file when the mortgage 
is on a coronavirus payment deferral. 
Mr and Mrs G have also raised concerns generally about how MAS has treated them since 
they took the mortgage out. In summary, they say it has been dishonest, sent several letters 
and demands for payment and not offered any help. 
I can see numerous conversations have happened over the years, along with written 
correspondence. Ive not seen any evidence that MAS was being deliberately unhelpful or 
dishonest but I can see that at times the calls were not convenient for Mr G so he ended 
them as a result. Whilst I accept that letters can be distressing and can see that Mr and 
Mrs G have received several over the years, I dont consider it unreasonable for MAS to 
have sent these reminding them that the account was in arrears and asking for them to get 
in touch. I can see that when Mr and Mrs G did provide details of their income and expenditure to 
MAS, it worked with them to try to help. Ive noted MAS send a field agent in 2019 and that 
Mr and Mrs G provided details around their income and expenditure then. Following this, 
Mr G made a proposal to pay around £9 to the arrears each month, but this wasnt accepted 
by MAS as it would not repay the arrears by the end of the mortgage term and the details 
gathered by the field agent suggested they could pay more.
I dont consider that unreasonable. I say this as its not clear that Mr and Mrs G would have 
been able to pay off the arrears and considering further missed payments, I cant see how 
this would have been in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. Having reviewed the information 
provided, Im unable to say that MAS failed to offer help when they struggled to maintain 
their payments.
Mr and Mrs G also raise concerns about how MAS operates as a company in general and 
has asked our investigator to look into other complaints about it. Our role as a service is to 
look into individual complaints and reach fair outcomes. Mr and Mrs G can direct their 
concerns about how MAS operates more generally to the regulator  the FCA  if they so 
wish. 
I also understand that Mr G has been in touch with our investigator with some further 
complaint points  including the interest rate charged and that he feels he is a mortgage 
prisoner. As our investigator has explained, we can only deal with the complaint thats been 
brought to us so we cant consider those issues here as part of this complaint. But they can 
raise these concerns directly with MAS. They can then refer those matters to us as new 
complaints if they are unhappy with the response from MAS (subject, of course, to our usual 
rules). 
I see why Mr and Mrs G are frustrated and looked to MAS to do more. But having reviewed 
all the information, Im satisfied that MAS took reasonable steps to help them in their 
financial difficulty. I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs G but for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Id remind MAS that it should continue to treat Mr and Mrs G fairly and in line with the 
guidance issued by the FCA about the Covid-19 pandemic as it evolves, offering tailored 
support if the holiday deferral period has been exhausted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman