DRN-4307537
The complaint
Mr P says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance,
who Ill call BPF, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold.
Mr P has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mr Ps submissions I include those made on his behalf.
Mr P entered into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr P or his representatives in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr P purchased a timeshare with a company I will call L in October 2010, using finance
that was provided by BPF. The finance was settled in October 2011.
In January 2021 Mr P complained to BPF. He said the loan was unlawful because L werent
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker finance. He also said the
timeshare agreement had been misrepresented to him and he therefore had a claim under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75) and that there was an unfair relationship
pursuant to section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He suggested
the BPF hadnt carried out the necessary checks to ensure the credit was affordable for him.
BPF thought his claims had been made out of time under the Limitations Act 1980 (LA) and
our investigator agreed. She added that she didnt believe there was sufficient evidence the
loan wasnt affordable and that, as the FCA didnt regulate consumer credit activity until
2014 there was no need for L to be authorised by them.
The PR disagreed. They said that the broker should have held a license from the Office of
Fair Trading at the time of sale and that section 32 of the LA provided for an extension of the
limitation period and meant Mr Ps CCA claims should be considered. They asked for a final
decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I think his claims under the CCA have been made too late
and I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the finance was unaffordable for him
or that the broker wasnt authorised. Its been some time since the investigator issued her
view on this complaint so Im issuing a provisional decision.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act (2000). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has the same right to make a claim against the credit provider as against
the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant to the claim under section 140A of the CCA as the
pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be the responsibility of the
lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair
relationship exists between Mr P and BPF.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr P may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether BPF would be reasonable
to reject Mr Ps claims.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against BPF had to be made within six years
of when Mr P had everything he needed to make such a claim. And in this complaint, I think
that was when he purchased the timeshare in October 2010. After all, he says that he
entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare because of misrepresentations. And
as the upshot of the claim was that he would not have made the purchase but for the
misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was at that time that he suffered a loss because he
ended up borrowing money from BPF. So, Mr P had until October 2016 to raise a section 75
claim with BPF. As he didnt do so until January 2021, and as I cant see a reason why the
limitation period is likely to be postponed (see my comments later) in keeping with the LA, I
think its likely a court would consider his section 75 claim to be time barred. That would give
BPF a complete defence to it.The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that, when
considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here the
limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr P wishes to make is for
repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to
which s.9 LA applies. That meant Mr P would have to bring an action within six years of the
date the credit was repaid. The account statement shows that was in October 2011 and that
means at the latest Mr P would have needed to raise his claim under s140A by October
2017. As he didnt raise his claim until January 2021, and as I cant see a reason why the
limitation period is likely to be postponed (see my later comments) in keeping with the LA, I
think he brought his claim too late  which, in my view, is likely to give BPF a complete
defence to it.
Section 32 of the LA
S32 relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake, or concealment
are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered).
To conclude that there had been deliberate concealment under Section 32(1)(b) of the
LA, there doesnt have to have been a free-standing contractual, tortious, or fiduciary duty
to disclose a fact. It is sufficient if the non-disclosure was part of an unfair credit-debtor
relationship as this was a breach of a relevant duty. That issue was discussed in Canada
Square Operations Ltd v Potter [2021]. A purchaser doesnt have to show that the Supplier
knew that concealment gave rise to a cause of action. Its enough that the concealment was
unconscionable  which means that the Supplier concealed something and was reckless as
to whether it had committed an actionable wrong.
Im not persuaded that Mr P has provided clear evidence of deliberate concealment in his
case.
Its possible that the contractual paperwork accompanying Mr Ps purchase agreement was
lengthy and difficult to understand in places. Its also possible that the Suppliers disclosure
at the Time of Sale wasnt entirely compliant with the relevant rules and requirements at that
time. But that isnt the same as saying the Supplier deliberately withheld information from Mr
P in a way that engages Section 32(1)(b) of the LA. And while Mr Ps representatives have
made a number of allegations in that regard, none of them are reliably corroborated by any
supporting evidence. So, based on the limited information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that
Section 32(1)(b) is likely to be engaged for the relevant reasons Mr Ps representatives have
provided and I dont think a court would find there was a reason to extend the limitation
period.
Was the loan irresponsible? 
Mr P says that BPF were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says they had strict
obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCAs) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those obligations.However, when BPF lent to Mr P, CONC didnt apply to lending of the kind in question (the
FCA began its regulation of consumer credit and issued CONC on 1 April 2014) So, it isnt
relevant here. Whats more, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a
large consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So
even if I was persuaded that BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such
finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that
the credit granted by BPF was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr P suffered a loss as a
result. As theres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what
he was lent by BPF, Im not persuaded it was unaffordable for him.
Was the broker authorised
Mr P argues that L wasnt authorised to arrange the credit agreement on BPFs behalf and
therefore breached the General Prohibition (section 19 of the FSMA). While I dont think its
fair to consider this under a section 140A claim (because it was made out of time under the
LA), I can consider this as a separate, stand-alone issue.
However, our records indicate that L was authorised by the OFT from at least May 2008 as it
fell under our consumer credit jurisdiction at that time and wouldnt have done if it didnt have
an OFT license. So, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint.
The date of the agreement
Theres been some confusion over the date of the finance agreement. Mr P didnt refer to the
date of the purchase when he raised his claim to BPF in January 2021. The PR have
provided a purchase agreement from October 2010 that aligns with the information provided
by BPF about the loan to finance that agreement, and its repayment. The PR have also
mentioned a further agreement that they say was entered into in July 2008. Ive not seen the
purchase agreement that relates to that finance, but I have seen the account statement that
demonstrates that finance was settled in January 2009. As the account was settled even
earlier than the 2010 purchase/finance agreement it would also seem likely that any s.75 or
s.140A claim would be out of time under the LA and that a court would think that was the
case. And if the broker of that agreement was also L (and Ive not seen any evidence to the
contrary) L was also licensed by the OFT at that time.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Neither party provided any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been provided with any additional comments or evidence Ive not been 
persuaded to change my provisional decision. My provisional decision therefore becomes 
my final decision on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman