DRN-1598506
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Miss A. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss A was sold the PPI by phone, a few months after the account was started.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Miss A has said she wasnt aware of the PPI being added and didnt agree to it. AXAs 
records say that the PPI was sold by phone a few months after the account started, and I 
think thats likely to be right. And, given the length of time that has passed, I also cant be 
sure how well Miss A might remember the detail of what happened. There is no recording 
available of that call  which isnt surprising as this happened about 19 years ago. From 
what we know about how AXA usually sold PPI by phone at that time, I think its 
representative would have anyway been told to make clear it was optional and to get the 
customers consent before adding it to the account. And Miss A hasnt told me anything to 
make me think AXA didnt follow its usual process with her. So, without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly conclude that AXA did something wrong in the way the PPI was added to the 
account. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss As 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss A to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Miss A clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know how 
much detail the adviser actually gave on the phone. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference. But in Miss As circumstances at the time, 
even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which I accept she 
says didnt happen.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for 
longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she 
did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman