DRN-3667432
The complaint
Mr G on behalf of L  a business partnership, complains about the cost of ending a card 
terminal hire agreement with Takepayments Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both L and Takepayments. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
L had a merchant services agreement (for a card terminal) with Takepayments since 2018. 
This allowed them to take credit and debit card payments from their customers through the 
terminal. This agreement was initially for a period of 12 months. After this, it renewed for 
further periods of 12 months  unless L let Takepayments know that they wished to end the 
agreement - before renewal.
In late January 2022, L requested that the agreement be terminated. L was unhappy with the 
cost of exiting the agreement and complained to Takepayments. They didnt uphold the 
complaint and L referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator also 
didnt recommend that it be upheld, and as L remained unhappy, their complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The agreement and cancellation terms
The relevant terms here are:
12.7 If the Contract is terminated for any reason (other than termination by 
[Takepayments] pursuant to clause 11.2) before the end of the Minimum Period or 
the relevant Extended Period (as the case may be) then:
12.7.1 the Merchant shall (without prejudice to clauses 12.1 and 12.2) remain liable 
to pay an amount equal to all Rental Charges payable for the remainder of the 
Minimum Period or such Extended Period [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman](as applicable); and
12.7.2 the Card Acceptance Agreement shall be deemed to have been terminated 
with effect from the date of the expiry of the Contract and the Merchant shall (without 
prejudice to clauses 12.1 and 12.2) be liable to pay an amount equal to the 
aggregate amount of the Non-Use Charges per month for the remainder of the 
Minimum Period or such Extended Period (as applicable); and
12.7.3 the Merchant shall pay the Early Termination Administration Charge 
[bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] relating to [Takepayments] processing of 
such termination.
I find that Takepayments have fairly applied the relevant agreement terms. If L wished to exit 
the agreement early without additional charges, the ideal time wouldve been prior to 
renewal in 2021. This wouldve meant the contract wouldnt have renewed - assuming the 
correct notice was given to Takepayments. The terms of their agreement with Takepayments 
do allow for an early exit - after 18 months, notwithstanding the fees/charges outlined above. 
The remit of our Service here doesnt extend to telling financial businesses how to word their 
contracts. Im satisfied that the relevant information was sufficiently clear at the point of L 
entering into this agreement. When L requested to end the agreement early after renewal in 
2021 - Takepayments were entitled to request the fees/charges L disputes here.
The service provided 
Takepayments accept that the service they provided couldve been better when L contacted 
them about the termination issue. Based on what Ive seen, I dont find that this materially 
affects the overall complaint here. I say this because whats at the heart of this complaint is L 
wanting to exit the agreement early without additional usage fees. I dont find the service 
was poor to the extent that compensation would be appropriate. They quickly clarified the 
information afterwards and apologised to L. I consider that a fair and proportionate remedy 
to this part of the complaint.
My decision may disappoint L, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally settle their dispute with Takepayments.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman