DRN-3198178
The complaint
Mr H and Ms H, as trustees of the H Trust, complain about the investment advice Mr H was 
given in 2017 by The On-Line Partnership Limited (OLP).  
What happened
This complaint is about advice Mr H received from an adviser who worked for an appointed 
representative of OLP. OLP have accepted responsibility for the complaint, and for ease of 
reference Ill refer to them throughout this decision as the business responsible for the 
advice given to Mr H. 
Mr H had received advice from the same adviser for some years. In September 2017, 
following a series of meetings with the adviser, OLP recommended that Mr H invest 
£325,000 that he held in a general investment account into a wealth preservation account 
(WPA). The investment was placed in a discretionary trust to reduce the inheritance tax 
(IHT) liability on Mr Hs estate. The trustees are Mr H and his daughter, Ms H, and they have 
brought this complaint jointly in that capacity. 
Mr H complained to OLP in 2019 about the advice he had been given. He said the adviser 
failed to identify that he had made other investments which were chargeable lifetime 
transfers (CLTs). His investment in the WPA therefore created an immediate inheritance tax 
liability of £59,025. Mr H also said the investment led to a capital gains tax liability of £7,231 
which he wasnt made aware of. Mr H asked OLP to refund the tax liabilities caused by their 
unsuitable advice. 
OLP didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said there was no evidence the 
adviser should have known about the other CLTs. And that Mr H had told the adviser his 
other investments werent CLTs.
Our investigator thought OLPs recommendation to Mr H was unsuitable and that his 
complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary: 
Mr Hs aim was to reduce the potential IHT liability for his estate. The adviser 
recommended that investing in the WPA would meet Mr Hs objective provided he 
lived for seven years after its inception. The adviser explained that putting the WPA 
in trust would create a CLT but that an initial IHT charge wouldnt be incurred 
because Mr H didnt appear to have made any other CLTs in the seven years before 
taking out the WPA.
Although Mr H told the adviser he hadnt made any other CLTs, the adviser shouldnt 
have relied on this when making his recommendation. Mr H had asked OLP for 
advice on reducing his IHT liability and the onus was on the adviser to make sure he 
had a thorough understanding of Mr Hs circumstances, including his existing 
investments, before making a recommendation.  
If the adviser had done more to check on Mr Hs existing investments, its likely he 
would have realised that Mr H had made CLTs in the previous seven years. 
The adviser said he wouldnt have recommended the WPA if hed known Mr H had 
made previous CLTs. And Mr H wouldnt have gone ahead with the investment if hed 
known it would create an immediate IHT liability. 
Our investigator also considered what OLP should do to put things right. She said our aim is 
to put customers as closely as possible back in the position they would have been in had it 
not been for the business mistake.
In her initial view our investigator suggested there were two possible ways to achieve that. 
The first would involve unwinding what had happened, with the trust and WPA being closed 
and the proceeds returned to Mr H. The second option would arise if Mr H chose to keep the 
WPA in the trust. Under both options, she said OLP would be responsible for meeting losses 
that Mr H had incurred.
In response, Mr H said that his preference would be to unwind the investment and trust. 
He confirmed that it was possible to achieve this by closing the WPA and trust. Both parties 
then made representations to our investigator about what costs OLP should have to meet to 
put Mr H back in the position he would have been in.
Our investigators final view was that OLP should: 
Refund the CGT incurred by Mr H for assets sold to fund the investment into the 
WPA.
Refund the CGT for assets sold by Mr H to pay for the IHT bill he incurred.
Refund the income tax liabilities Mr H incurred in December 2019, when he paid his 
IHT liability, and in December 2020, when he took up the option of periodic maturity 
on the WPA. 
Undertake to pay income tax on any future chargeable gain on the WPAs 
encashment.
Pay Mr H reasonable professional fees in relation to the advice he sought on the 
impact of OLPs advice on his financial position and how to move forward, including 
the unwinding of the trust.
Pay Mr H £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact OLPs 
advice had on him.
Our investigator didnt think OLP should refund the IHT payment of £59,025 that Mr H made 
because he now has a credit with HMRC for that amount.
OLP disagreed with our investigators findings on the suitability of their advice. They also 
disagreed with some of her recommendations on how OLP should put things right. 
They said:
They should not be responsible for the CGT incurred by Mr H for assets sold to make 
the investment into the WPA. They said Mr H was told by his investment manager in 
August 2017 that due to separate withdrawal requests he had made, the raising of 
£325,000 to invest in the WPA would lead to a small CGT liability. Mr H should have 
brought this to the OLP advisers attention. 
Mr H should provide evidence of any liabilities and charges they are told to pay.  
Mr H agreed with our investigators view on the merits of his complaint but didnt think her 
recommended compensation was sufficient. He thought OLP should also repay:The immediate IHT charge of £59,025 that he incurred because of his investment in 
the WPA.
The initial advice fee of £4,875 that he paid to OLP in relation to the WPA.
An HMRC late payment penalty of £2,000 which he incurred because he was 
unaware of the immediate IHT liability caused by his investment until after the 
deadline for payment.
Accountancy fees of £300 (November 2020) and £1,050 (April 2021) that he has 
incurred. 
As both parties disagreed with parts of our investigators findings, this complaint was passed 
to me to make a final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in November 2021.
OLPs advice to Mr H
I said that OLP were responsible for making sure the investment they recommended was 
suitable for Mr H. In doing so, they should have considered his financial situation, his 
knowledge and experience of investing, and his investment objectives. It was for OLP to 
obtain from Mr H the information they thought necessary to enable them to offer suitable 
advice. 
The adviser spoke to Mr H about his objective to reduce IHT liability and obtained some 
information from him by going through a review form. I thought it was likely that the adviser 
would also have known something of Mr Hs circumstances because of their existing 
relationship.
The adviser recommended that investing in the WPA and placing it in trust would achieve 
Mr Hs objective, provided he lived for seven years. It would also offer the potential for tax 
efficient capital growth over the medium to long term with access to capital payments. In his 
letter to Mr H, the adviser explained that putting the WPA in a discretionary trust would 
qualify as a CLT. He said:
There is an initial charge to IHT when property is settled in discretionary trusts, but 
this only applies if the amount transferred (together with any other chargeable life 
transfers in the previous seven years) exceeds the current nil rate threshold of 
£325,000. As this does not apply in your case, there is no initial charge.
Please note that any other chargeable lifetime transfers you made in the seven years 
before taking out the WPA count towards the IHT calculations. In your case you do 
not appear to have made any of these.
OLP said the adviser asked Mr H if he had made any other CLTs in the previous seven 
years and he replied that he hadnt. Mr H accepted that but said he didnt fully understand 
what the adviser was asking him. He thought the adviser should have done more to 
understand his existing investments and realised that two of them (each of £150,000) would 
have been classed as CLTs.
Whether or not Mr H had made any other CLTs in the previous seven years was an 
important consideration in making a suitable recommendation to him. It seemed the adviser 
recognised this by asking Mr H about it and referring to it in his advice letter. I said the key 
question I needed to consider was whether it was sufficient for the adviser to rely on what 
Mr H had said, or whether he should have done more to ensure he had sufficient information to make a suitable recommendation.
I said the adviser would have known that Mr H was a relatively experienced investor. 
Mr H gave the adviser a list of his existing investments and their values and an estimate of 
his IHT liability. I noted that some of the investments were labelled as in trust, but not the 
two investment bonds that were later identified as creating CLTs. 
In his recollections of what happened, the adviser had said he assumed that Mr Hs 
knowledge of what he had done with his existing investments was as good as mine. 
He therefore relied on Mr Hs answer when he asked him if he had made any other CLTs.
I noted that the advisers letter to Mr H said that he had not conducted a full review of his IHT 
potential liability, but that Mr H was aware it was high due to his substantial wealth. 
Based on what Id seen, I didnt think the adviser obtained enough information about Mr Hs 
existing investments and his IHT liability. Instead, it seemed that he relied on the information 
Mr H had given him.       
I thought the adviser should have done more to understand Mr Hs financial situation before 
making a recommendation to him. Given Mr Hs objectives, I thought it would have been 
reasonable to expect the adviser to check such information as when Mr H had made his 
other investments and which of them were in trust. 
Although Mr H was a relatively experienced investor, I didnt think it was enough for the 
adviser to assume that he would remember all the details of his investments or necessarily 
realise the significance of a question about CLTs. It was up to the adviser to understand fully 
Mr Hs circumstances.
Had the adviser done more to understand Mr Hs existing investments, I thought he likely 
would have realised that Mr H had made other investments that were CLTs in the past seven 
years. When he provided his recollections of the meeting with Mr H, the adviser said that if 
hed known Mr Hs existing investments had been placed in trust, I would not have 
recommended what I recommended.
Mr Hs aim was to reduce his IHT liability, but the investment recommended left him with an 
immediate IHT liability. I didnt therefore think OLPs recommendation was suitable and I 
thought Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I said that my aim should be to put Mr H as 
close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice.
If he had not been given unsuitable advice, Mr H would not have invested in the WPA and 
placed it in trust. Mr H confirmed that the WPA could be surrendered and assigned out of the 
trust back to himself, leaving the trust with no value. Mr H also said that the funds held in the 
WPA were managed in line with the strategy applied to his existing investment portfolio and 
so he was not seeking compensation for any missed growth on those funds.
Mr H also incurred costs related to the advice he was given. I looked at which costs OLP 
should meet, subject to Mr H surrendering the WPA as planned.
IHT charge
I said that Mr H incurred an immediate IHT charge of £59,025 because of his investment in 
the WPA. He would not have had to make that payment if hed been given suitable advice by OLP. The payment to HMRC cannot be refunded when the investment is unwound, but it will 
be held as a credit against future IHT thats payable by Mr H or his estate.
Mr H said that, although he holds a credit with HMRC, hed lost out on the use of that 
money. If he hadnt been given unsuitable advice, he would have invested that money in line 
with his aim of reducing IHT liability. He therefore thought OLP should reimburse him for the 
IHT charge. 
OLP said that if Mr H had not invested his funds in the WPA they would have remained liable 
for IHT. And if Mr H were to pass away within seven years of the investment (2024), IHT 
would still need to be paid on the full amount regardless of whether it had been invested in 
the trust or not. OLP also said that the IHT Mr H had paid would be held as a credit against 
future IHT payable so for them to pay him a similar amount would put him in a better position 
than he would have been in. 
I said it was clear that Mr H had to pay an early IHT charge as a direct result of the 
unsuitable advice he was given by OLP. In this case, however, I didnt think it was possible 
simply to return Mr H to the position he would have been in had nothing gone wrong. 
Unwinding the investment would bring the whole amount invested back into Mr H's estate 
and it would then be subject to IHT again. Mr H had said he would invest the funds to reduce 
that liability, but such investments would likely require some years to pass before they fell 
outside his estate. Mr H also said he had other existing investments to mitigate against his 
IHT liability. 
Based on everything Id seen, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr Hs estate would 
still have an IHT liability that would equal or exceed the credit he has with HMRC. So, I was 
satisfied that his estate would benefit from the IHT credit in the future. I thought asking OLP 
to reimburse the charge would therefore mean Mr H and his estate benefitting twice  Mr H 
would have the benefit of the money now and his estate will benefit from the credit too. 
I wasnt persuaded that was fair. 
On the other hand, I accepted that Mr H had lost out on the use of the money he used to pay 
the IHT charge and on any investment gains it would have generated. In the circumstances, 
I thought it would be fair for OLP to compensate Mr H for those losses.   
In deciding how OLP should compensate Mr H, I said I couldnt be sure how he would have 
invested the funds; nor could I know how many years of growth he would miss out on, since 
that was likely dependent on how long Mr H lives for. I said I would therefore take a broad 
approach with the aim of making sure Mr H is compensated as if he has had the benefit of 
the money. 
Taking account of Mr Hs circumstances, I thought it would be fair and reasonable for OLP to 
compensate Mr H for the investment return he might have expected to get over a ten year 
period from the date he paid the IHT charge. I accepted that OLP and Mr H might feel the 
period should be shorter or longer, but overall, I thought ten years was a reasonable period. 
Mr H would in effect be getting guaranteed assumed growth on his funds all in one go, 
rather than having to wait ten years, and have the benefit of that growth immediately. 
That would give Mr H the opportunity to mitigate the loss of any further growth that might 
have been achieved either during or beyond the ten year period. 
In making the calculation I said OLP should: 
For the ten years prior to the date on which Mr H paid the IHT charge, calculate the 
average annual growth rate on the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return 
index). That is a fair measure for someone prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. 
Estimate the investment returns Mr H would lose out on by applying that average 
annual growth rate over a ten year period to the amount of his IHT charge, from the 
date it was paid.   
CGT charge
Mr H incurred a CGT charge of £7,231 when he sold assets to fund his investment into the 
WPA. Our investigator thought OLP should reimburse Mr H for this charge. OLP disagreed 
because they said Mr H was told by a fund manager in August 2017 that the raising of 
£325,000 would lead to a small CGT liability. OLP thought Mr H should have brought this to 
their advisers attention.
I said that the £325,000 that Mr H invested in the WPA was previously held in another 
investment fund. In the months before making the WPA investment, it seemed that both 
Mr H and the OLP adviser were in contact with the fund managers. In July 2017, the fund 
manager told OLP that there would be no CGT liability on a withdrawal of £325,000. The fact 
find meeting between Mr H and OLP took place in August 2017 and Mr H withdrew £325,000 
from the investment fund in October 2017. 
Mr H contacted the fund manager in August 2017 to request a separate withdrawal of 
£33,000 from his investment fund. On 22 August 2017, the fund manager replied to Mr H 
and told him that because of that separate withdrawal, he was likely to be liable for a small 
CGT charge when he withdrew £325,000 for the WPA. OLP thought Mr H should have 
brought this to their attention before going ahead with the WPA investment.
Although I had seen copies of some emails from the time, I couldnt be sure of all the 
exchanges that took place between Mr H, his fund manager and OLP between July and 
October 2017. But I thought it would have been reasonable for the OLP adviser to have 
checked the position on CGT liability before the investment went ahead, rather than relying 
on what he had been told a few months before. And even if the adviser had checked the 
position, I couldnt be sure whether just knowing that Mr H would face a relatively small CGT 
charge would have changed his recommendation, or what Mr H would have done.
I said that ultimately Mr H incurred the CGT charge because of the unsuitable advice he was 
given by OLP. Although Id taken account of what OLP said, I thought it would be fair and 
reasonable for them to reimburse Mr H for that charge.     
Other costs
I thought OLP should also reimburse Mr H for other costs related to tax liabilities he had 
incurred or might incur as a result of the unsuitable advice they gave him. So, I thought OLP 
should refund Mr H for any CGT he incurred when selling assets to pay for the IHT charge 
he paid. And OLP should undertake to pay income tax on any future chargeable gain on the 
WPAs encashment.
I thought OLP should also reimburse Mr H for other costs he had to meet as a direct result of 
the unsuitable advice he was given. That was the initial advice fee Mr H paid to OLP and 
accountancy fees he paid in November 2020 and April 2021. 
Mr H had also said that OLP should reimburse him for an HMRC late payment penalty of 
£2,000 which he incurred because he was unaware of the immediate IHT liability caused by his investment until after the deadline for payment. I thought about what Mr H had said. 
But while I thought OLP should cover any costs Mr H incurred as a direct result of their 
advice, I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable to hold them responsible for the late 
payment charge. Mr H was responsible for assessing his liabilities in time for the deadline for 
payment. 
I agreed with our investigator that this matter had a significant impact on Mr H. His objective 
was to reduce his IHT liability  something that was clearly of importance to him - but he was 
given advice that meant he incurred an immediate and unexpected IHT charge. He had to 
spend time, effort and money over an extended period to try and put things right. 
To recognise the impact of OLPs unsuitable advice and to compensate Mr H for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him, I thought OLP should pay an additional £750 in 
compensation.  
Summary of compensation
Subject to confirmation that Mr H has unwound his investment in the WPA and trust, and the 
provision of invoices where appropriate, I thought OLP should:
 
Reimburse Mr H for the investment growth he lost out on in relation to the £59,025 
used to pay his IHT charge. 
Reimburse Mr H for the CGT incurred when he sold assets to fund the investment 
into the WPA.
Reimburse Mr H for any CGT charge in relation to assets he sold to pay for the IHT 
bill he incurred.
Reimburse Mr H for the income tax liabilities he incurred in December 2019, when he 
paid his IHT liability, and in December 2020, when he took up the option of periodic 
maturity on the WPA. 
Undertake to reimburse Mr H for income tax payable on any future chargeable gain 
on the WPAs encashment.
Refund the initial advice fee that Mr H paid to OLP.
Reimburse Mr H for reasonable professional fees (including accountancy fees) in 
relation to the advice he sought on the impact of OLPs advice on his financial 
position and how to move forward, including the unwinding of the trust.
Pay Mr H £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact of OLPs 
advice had on him.
responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr H and OLP have responded to my provisional decision, and Ill now consider what 
theyve said.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H has provided information on the professional 
fees he expects to incur. I am grateful to Mr H for providing this information. 
I said in my provisional decision that OLP should reimburse Mr H for reasonable professional 
fees (including accountancy fees) in relation to the advice he sought on the impact of OLPs 
advice on his financial position and how to move forward, including the unwinding of the 
trust. I also said that OLP should undertake to reimburse Mr H for income tax payable on 
any future chargeable gain on the WPAs encashment.   
For clarity, I think OLP should meet the costs associated with encashing the WPA and 
unwinding the trust. I am also asking OLP to refund the initial advice fee they charged Mr H. 
Taking account of that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for OLP also to meet the 
costs of any advice Mr H obtains on where to invest the funds he receives from the 
encashment of the WPA. I havent therefore included any such costs in the compensation 
that OLP should pay. 
OLP disagree with my provisional findings that they should refund the CGT that Mr H 
incurred when he sold assets to fund his investment into the WPA and when selling assets 
to pay for the IHT charge. They say that Mr H would have had to pay the same (or possibly 
more) CGT at some point in the future anyway when encashing the investments. OLP have 
said that was even more likely given Mr Hs stated intention to do something with the monies 
to mitigate IHT.
Ive thought about what OLP have said. I agree that Mr Hs aim was to reduce his IHT 
liability and I accept he might well have had to pay CGT at some point to achieve that. But I 
cant be sure what Mr H would have done differently if he hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice by OLP. He might have made an alternative investment, or he might have decided to 
retain his existing investments at that time. 
As I said in my provisional decision, ultimately Mr H incurred the CGT charges because of 
the unsuitable advice he was given by OLP. And I still think it would be fair and reasonable 
for them to reimburse Mr H for the CGT he has incurred.
My findings therefore remain the same as in my provisional decision. I dont think OLPs 
recommendation was suitable and I think this complaint should be upheld. OLP should pay 
compensation as set out below.    
Putting things right
Subject to confirmation that Mr H has unwound the investment in the WPA and trust, and the 
provision of invoices where appropriate, OLP should:
 
Reimburse Mr H for the investment growth he lost out on in relation to the £59,025 
used to pay his IHT charge. OLP should calculate this amount in the way I set out in 
my provisional decision and repeated above. 
Reimburse Mr H for the CGT incurred when he sold assets to fund the investment 
into the WPA.
Reimburse Mr H for any CGT charge in relation to assets he sold to pay for the IHT 
bill he incurred.
Reimburse Mr H for the income tax liabilities he incurred in December 2019, when he 
paid his IHT liability, and in December 2020, when he took up the option of periodic 
maturity on the WPA. 
Undertake to reimburse Mr H for income tax payable on any future chargeable gain 
on the WPAs encashment.
Refund the initial advice fee that Mr H paid to OLP.
Reimburse Mr H for reasonable professional fees (including accountancy fees) in 
relation to the advice he sought on the impact of OLPs advice on his financial 
position and how to move forward, including the unwinding of the trust.
Pay Mr H £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact of OLPs 
advice had on him.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint brought by 
Mr H and Ms H, as trustees of the H Trust, against The On-Line Partnership Limited. 
 
The On-Line Partnership Limited should pay compensation as set out above. They should 
provide details of any calculations to Mr H and Ms H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman