DRN-2951411
The complaint
Mr A complains that the settlement made to him by Royal and Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) when 
he made a claim on his home insurance was not a fair amount. 
What happened
In March 2020 the water tank in Mr As home overflowed and caused an escape of water. It 
made watermarks on the bedroom ceiling and damage was caused to a bedframe and 
mattress. 
Mr A was not in the country at the date the damage happened, so he made a claim to his 
insurer on his return in August 2020.
A new bed frame and mattress was bought, and the damaged items were disposed of before 
the claim on his insurance policy was made. 
When the claim was made, as the damaged bedframe and mattress had been disposed of 
RSA could not inspect them There were no photos of the damage and no receipts for the 
damaged items and so RSA said it couldnt validate the claim. 
RSA offered a settlement based on their base rates for a bed and mattress plus an amount 
for redecoration.  
Mr A was not happy with the amount offered for the bedframe and mattress so made a 
complaint to RSA, who reviewed the details but did not uphold his complaint.
As Mr A was not happy with RSAs response, he brought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He thought the claim had been paid fairly due 
to there being no evidence available of the bed and mattress.
As Mr A is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was not in the country when the water tank overflowed. He was unable to return for 
some months due to the pandemic. I appreciate that this will have been a difficult time for 
both Mr A, and his wife, who had managed to get home.
Mr A said that his wife did not know where the documents were to raise the claim to RSA at 
the time of the damage so I can see why the claim was not made until he returned home.
I can understand why Mr As bedframe and mattress were disposed of, as I think it would not 
have been realistic to keep them at the house until Mr A returned home . But I think it would 
have been sensible  to take some pictures of the damage in order to prove their claim. 
As the items had been disposed of by the time Mr A made his claim to RSA, it asked for 
receipts of purchase or other evidence, such as a bank statement, to validate the claim. As 
Mr A had bought them approximately 10 years before he no longer had anything to show.
Even though Mr A has provided receipts for the replacement items, RSA had no way of 
knowing if these were a like for like replacement of the damaged bedframe and mattress so 
it offered Mr A the amount of a basic bedframe and mattress. I think  that this was the most 
reasonable solution in these circumstances. 
RSAs terms mean that if it agrees to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what it would have paid its preferred supplier, so the cash settlement they 
have given Mr A is significantly less than he had paid for the replacements. Insurers have 
significant buying power with their preferred suppliers, so get cheaper prices than 
consumers. We think this is fair.
I accept that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons I have explained 
above I dont uphold his complaint and I dont require RSA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman