DRN-2375057
The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (BG) Limited (BMWFS) didnt arrange 
complimentary seven-day car insurance as he believed it would. As a result, he incurred 
costs that he would like refunded.
What happened
The details to this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
I cant be sure what Mr M was told at the point of sale about the complimentary 
seven-day insurance - its difficult for either party to evidence such conversations. As 
Mr Ms own insurance took effect from seven days after collection, I think he did 
believe the complimentary insurance was in place when he collected the car.
I have seen a leaflet for the complimentary insurance which states the policy needs 
to be activated. Mr M has told us he wasnt sent the link to do this prior to collecting 
the car. Had he had this information prior to collection I cant see why he wouldnt 
have activated the link and at that point realised he wasnt eligible for the insurance.
However, the Hire Purchase Agreement Mr M signed clearly states both in that 
agreement and in the key product information that it was Mr Ms responsibility to take 
out and maintain comprehensive insurance. So, I think the onus was on Mr M to 
ensure any insurance, including the complimentary insurance, was appropriate. Had 
he looked into the complimentary insurance he would have realised he had to insure 
the car himself from the date of collection and so avoided the extra costs he incurred.
Whilst is might have been nice if BMWFS had refunded the relatively modest costs 
Mr M incurred as a gesture of goodwill I dont think its appropriate for me to tell it to 
do so. I cant be sure what Mr M was told at the point of sale. And I believe it was his 
responsibility , as stated in the agreement he signed, to appropriately insure the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman