DRN-4004488
The complaint
Mr U complains Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
(Mapfre) has unfairly declined a claim under his guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr U has a GAP insurance policy which is underwritten by Mapfre. 
The policy is designed to cover the gap between the motor insurance settlement 
and either the amount the policyholder paid for the insured vehicle, or the early 
finance early settlement figure if the vehicle is declared a total loss during the period 
of cover.  
The policy started on 18 November 2019 and the period of cover was 36 months. On 
18 November 2022, Mr U was involved in a car accident and his car was declared a 
total loss.  
On 24 November 2022, Mr U made a claim under his policy, but Mapfre declined it 
saying the accident leading to the total loss of his vehicle happened on 18 November 
2022 - by which point the policy had expired. 
Mr U challenged Mapfres decision saying the policy provided cover for 36 months 
and so, was inclusive of 18 November 2022. 
In its final response Mapfre disagreed saying the policy provided cover for 36 months 
 put another way 1095 days - and so, expired at midnight on 17 November 2022. It 
said if the policy expired on 18 November 2022, Mr U would have received cover for 
36 months and 1 day. 
Unhappy, Mr U brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
upheld it. She also said Mapfre should pay £200 compensation for its handling of the 
claim. 
Mapfre disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and so Im upholding this 
complaint  Ill explain why. 
The issue to be decided here is whether the period of cover is inclusive of                     
18 November 2022 - the date Mr Us car accident happened. And in turn, whether 
Mapfres decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Mapfre says the policy expired at midnight on 17 November 2022, whereas Mr Us 
interpretation of the policy term is that the period of cover includes 18 November 
2022.
The policy defines the period of cover as the period from the start date until the 
earliest of the following: a) the end of the period of cover shown on your Certificate of 
Insurance []. 
The Certificate of Insurance states the period of cover as 36 months. It doesnt, 
however, specify the date and time the cover ends  nor does the policy wording 
state that cover ends on the day before the third anniversary year. So applied 
literally, 36 months after 18 November 2019 is 18 November 2022.
Mapfre has said 36 months equates to 1095 days which means cover expired at 
midnight on 17 November 2022. But Im not persuaded by this argument. I say this 
because the period of cover isnt expressed in days rather it says, 36 months and 
I dont consider it reasonable to expect a consumer to calculate the number of days 
to work out when the period of cover ends. 
Our Investigator put to Mapfre that there was a leap year in 2020, and so there was 
in fact 1096 days of cover. And applying Mapfres argument (that the cover should be 
calculated in days) would mean the period of cover does in fact include 18 November 
2022. 
Mapfre said the period of cover is automatically adjusted to take account of leap 
years, and so, it was still correct to say the policy ended the day before the third 
anniversary. But in saying this, Mapfre has seemingly, undermined its own argument 
that days should be used to calculate the period of cover. 
In any event, whats key is that Im not satisfied the point at which the period of cover 
ends is sufficiently clear and so, Im persuaded Mr Us interpretation is reasonable 
based on the period of cover being stated as 36 months. 
Whilst theres no general rule as to how policy terms need to be set out, insurers are 
expected to provide clear and accurate information. And where a term isnt clear  as 
Im persuaded is the case here - this Services approach is that it should be 
interpreted in the consumers favour. So, Im satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome 
here is for Mapfre to accept the claim.  
Our Investigator awarded £200 compensation because she considered Mapfre to 
have caused avoidable inconvenience and distress through its handling of the claim, 
and that this had a greater impact on Mr U owing to the fact he was recovering from 
the car accident. From what Ive read, Mr U has no doubt been caused avoidable 
distress by his claim having not been accepted, and so I agree £200 compensation is 
fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to:accept the claim
pay Mr U £200 compensation*
*Mapfre must pay compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr U accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman