DRN-3400676
The complaint
Mr S complains about interest charged on his Tesco Personal Finance Plc credit card 
account when he was on a COVID-19 payment deferral.
What happened
The background to this complaint is very well known to both Mr S and Tesco. I wont repeat 
in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr S was working abroad at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic  around March 2020. 
Due to local restrictions he was unable to leave quarantine for around 5 months. Mr S says 
this limited his ability to send money to his UK bank accounts. He requested a COVID-19 
payment deferral. Mr S says he experienced various issues trying to get in contact with 
Tesco over the phone and was also having issues accessing his account online. 
The payment deferral ended in October 2020 and Mr S is unhappy with being charged 
interest during this period and Tesco reinstating a direct debit payment.
Tesco didnt uphold his complaint and he referred it to our Service for an independent 
review. Our investigator recommended that the complaint not be upheld - so its been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The COVID-19 payment deferral and interest charged
Mr S chose to apply for a COVID-19 payment deferral and says a third party advised him it 
was his best option. I accept that his options whilst being abroad, in quarantine will have 
been limited - but I also havent explored what options Mr S wouldve had abroad to send 
money to a UK account. 
Im satisfied that Tesco made it clear to Mr S that interest would still accrue during the 
COVID-19 payment deferral period. Mr S also confirms he was well aware that interest 
would be charged on the outstanding balance. This was in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys guidance on payment deferrals. Therefore they havent done anything wrong in 
doing so.
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
Since the final response letter was issued, Tesco have made a commercial decision to 
refund some interest to Mr S. As this is in Mr Ss favour, I wouldnt seek to interfere with it.
The end of the COVID-19 payment deferral period
Mr S is unhappy with a direct debit being reinstated at the end of the payment deferral 
period. Tesco let Mr S know in July 2020 when he requested an extension to the payment 
deferral period that account payments would resume at the end of it. I dont find that Tesco 
have done anything wrong in this regard. The payment needed may have been larger than 
Mr S expected - but as outlined already, interest correctly accrued whilst the payment 
deferrals were in place. 
It was Mr Ss responsibility to be aware of what payment was needed to maintain his 
account in a good standing at the end of the payment deferral period. Ive also noted that 
Mr S says hes had issues logging into his online account. Ive seen no supporting evidence 
(social media contact has been referenced) that he flagged this with Tesco or took 
appropriate steps to try and gain access when these issues arose. 
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
The availability of Tescos services
Theres no doubt that the pandemic caused unprecedented problems for financial business 
as they tried to balance increased demand for their services with the adjustment to remote 
working. Mr S says he tried to contact Tesco numerous times by phone but was 
unsuccessful. Yes, it will almost certainly have taken much longer than usual, but I dont 
agree with Mr S statement that it wouldve been impossible to get in touch with Tesco.
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
My decision will disputing Mr S but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve this dispute between Mr S and Tesco.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman