DRN-1419830
The complaint
Miss F says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in one of the bank's branches in 
2004 at the same time as Miss F applied for the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. I'll explain why.
Miss F says she was led to believe the PPI was mandatory and felt pressured to take it. I 
can't know what was said in the meeting but I've looked at the paperwork from the sale. 
Miss F indicated that she wanted the cover on the application form she signed - the box to 
select PPI was completed. I've thought carefully about her comments, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale took place and how that might affect what she recalls. I 
haven't found enough other evidence to support her claim that she was pressured.
Overall, I think it's most likely Halifax made Miss F aware the PPI was optional, and she 
chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss F so it needed to check if it was right for her given her 
circumstances at the time. I haven't seen anything to show it was unsuitable. She had no 
savings or other insurances and was only entitled to statutory sick pay: the PPI would have 
paid out for up to 12 months for all successful accident and sickness claims. It also gave her 
up to 12 months' redundancy cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Miss F 
if she was sick or lost her job.
I agree its possible the information Halifax gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But it seems Miss F chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. Miss F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations, and 
the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss F 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think she would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I don't think Miss F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
In response to the adjudicator's view Miss F said she'd tried to cancel her PPI policy on a 
number of times but was reassured it was right for her. I note her policy was successfully cancelled in December 2006. And the bank says it has no record she requested 
its cancellation prior to that date. Following my involvement, Miss F's representative asked 
her for more detail of the attempted cancellations, but she has provided no further 
information. So based on the available evidence, I can't find the bank made an error when 
cancelling her policy, or comment further on this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman