DRN-2320920
The complaint
Mr W complains about a decision Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, made not 
to uphold a chargeback request he made or his subsequent claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback or a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that 
in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Barclays but by Visa and the scheme operator 
sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
The chargeback request was defended and, having reviewed the evidence provided from the 
hotel, Barclaycard thought there was little chance of successfully pursuing a claim, I dont 
think they were unreasonable not to arbitrate the matter further.
section 75 
Id then expect them to consider a claim under section 75 and I can see they did that.
Mr W says the wording of the hotels terms and conditions has been changed since he made 
the booking, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence that was the case. The terms say:
CURRENCY CONVERSION
Currency rates are based on publicly available sources and should be used as guidelines
only. Room rates are guaranteed only in US Dollars. Currency quotes are not updated every
day. The currency information supplied by this WEB SITE is believed to be accurate, but
PALACE RESORTS does not warrant or guarantee such accuracy.
I think this was likely to have been the case when Mr W made his booking and that the room 
rate could only therefore be guaranteed in dollars.
Mr W says he paid a sum of $2 to lock in the currency rate. Having reviewed the 
correspondence he had with the hotel I am not persuaded that was the purpose of this 
payment as an email explained:
To confirm your reservation only a $2 deposit is required.
So, I think the purpose of the $2 payment was to confirm the reservation.
Mr W says that the exchange rate used for guidance purposes when he made the original 
booking was 1.43 pounds to the dollar. He says that rate was unrealistic, and the deal was 
therefore misrepresented to him. If I was persuaded that the deal was misrepresented to    
Mr W, and that misrepresentation led him to enter into a deal he would not otherwise have 
entered into, then I may ask Barclaycard to take some further action.
Ive had a look at the exchange rate at the time of booking in August 2018. It was about 1.29 
dollars to the pound and not the 1.43 shown for guidance during the booking process. The 
terms say currency rates are based on publicly available sources and as they dont specify 
exactly what source I think that may reasonably account for the discrepancy. The terms also 
explain that Currency quotes are not updated every day. I can see that rates were even 
lower earlier in the year and, again, I think that could reasonably explain any discrepancy. 
By the time Mr W checked into the hotel a year later his money was worth less as the 
exchange rate had reduced to about 1.21 dollars to the pound. 
So, the conversion shown for guidance may not have been accurate, but the exchange rate 
did deteriorate and as Mr W was paying on arrival he was impacted by that.
Ive thought about whether Mr W would have done anything differently if the exchange rate 
shown for guidance had been closer to 1.29 but I think its likely he would still have entered 
into the transaction.
I say that because:
I think he would have been likely to understand he may benefit from any 
improvement in the rate as well as suffer from any deterioration; Mr W had booked the hotel because he was attending a wedding and I think he 
would therefore have been unlikely to change to another hotel;
If he was concerned about exchange rate fluctuations he could have considered 
paying in full at the time of booking;
Ive considered whether Barclaycard have been fair to Mr W and I think they have. Theyve 
offered £300 to him as a good will gesture and I dont think they had to do that given the 
information that was available to them; that Ive described above. 
Barclaycard also offered to pay Mr W £25 to compensate him for the delays he experienced 
when contacting them. I think, in the circumstances, this was also reasonable. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ws frustration at paying more for his holiday than he wished to I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest, in all the circumstances, that Barclaycard have been 
unreasonable here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman