DRN-3978283
The complaint
Mrs F complains Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined part of her residential property 
owners insurance policy claim.
Mrs Fs been represented for the complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to the actions of the 
representative as being those of Mrs F. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs F made a claim against her Covea residential property owners insurance 
policy. She said a departed tenant had caused extensive damage to her property  including 
the building of a partition wall and changes to the kitchen and bathroom. The insurer 
accepted her claim for damage to a boiler and a passageway  against the perils of 
malicious damage and escape of water respectively. 
But Covea declined her claim for the bathroom, kitchen and partition wall. It said there was 
no cover for that. It described what had happened as poor standard alterations the tenant 
had carried out without permission  but importantly without any intention of causing 
damage.  So it didnt accept the insured peril of malicious damage nor any other applied. 
Mrs F complained but Covea maintained its position. It said the tenant had made the 
alterations to the property to suit their living arrangements. 
Mrs F wasnt satisfied so came to this service. Shes spent more than £13,000 on repairs. 
She wants Covea to cover this as malicious or accidental damage and pay her loss of rent. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She didnt feel the loss could be considered as 
accidental or malicious. Nor did she feel it could be considered to meet any other peril 
covered by Mrs Fs policy. So she said Covea had made a correct decision on the claim. 
Mrs F didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mrs F and Covea have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Mrs Fs policy covers her for damage to the property caused by various listed insured perils 
 up to the sum insured for each item shown in her schedule. The perils include malicious 
persons and accidental damage.
The key consideration is whether any damage should be considered to have been caused 
by malicious persons. The policy doesnt provide a definition. This service generally 
considers damage to be malicious if the person who did it intended to do harm. Standard 
dictionary definitions also refer to an intention to cause harm. 
Coveas accepted the boiler damage as malicious. Its said this was a spiteful attempt to 
cause harm. But it contrasts that with what happened to the kitchen, bathroom and partition 
wall. It denies with these there was an attempt or intention to cause harm or damage. 
Instead it considers them purposeful alterations made to suit the tenants lifestyle or living 
arrangements. 
In summary Mrs F argues Covea are applying a too restrictive understanding of malicious. 
She says harm or damage doesnt need to be the primary intent of the person. Instead 
damage caused intentionally, whether the primary objective or not, is malicious if there is a 
recklessness or disregard to outcome of their actions. 
Ive some sympathy for Mrs Fs argument. But its for her to show that the damage shes 
claiming for is covered by the policy. Unfortunately, even if I accept her definition, she hasnt 
provided enough for me to say what happened with the kitchen, bathroom and partition wall 
was caused by a malicious person. 
Both Mrs F and Covea responded to my request for any photos that might help me 
understand the nature and extent of the damage. Mrs Fs images show the property in a very 
poor condition. However, her images appear to show the property after stripping out for 
repairs had started.  This is demonstrated by the absence of tiling, fittings and other features 
shown in Coveas loss adjusters photos. So, unfortunately, Mrs Fs images provide a very 
limited insight to the nature and extent of the damage caused by the tenant. 
The images in Coveas loss adjusters report show what can fairly be described as poor-
quality unfinished alterations. The loss adjuster provides a description of the kitchen, 
bathroom and partition  including the removal and replacing of fittings. This can also be 
said to describe low standard and unfinished alterations. 
Ive considered Mrs Fs description of the propertys condition, her points about building 
regulations and her expenditure on refurbishment. However, there just isnt enough evidence 
of the condition or standard of the alterations for me to show there was most likely an 
intention to cause harm or a recklessness in the tenants actions. Instead, from what Ive 
seen it seems the tenant had made, or was in the process of making, alterations to make the 
property better suite their lifestyle. That in itself isnt a malicious act. For the same reasons I 
cant fairly say any damage should be considered accidental damage. 
So I cant say Covea unfairly declined the relevant parts of Mrs Fs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman