DRN-2165666
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) told him his tax-free cash 
sum was guaranteed. However, when he received the fund it had dropped in value. Mr T 
also complains that Scottish Widows provided a poor service and taxed his pension 
incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has raised a number of issues of complaint with Scottish Widows, so for ease of 
reference Ill deal with them separately.
The tax-free cash payment
Mr Ts main issue of complaint is regarding the tax-free cash value he was paid. Mr T says 
he was expecting around £72,000. This was the value included on the quote he received 
from Scottish Widows to take his benefits. Mr T believed that this value was guaranteed and 
therefore was very unhappy when he instead received just under £68,000. Scottish Widows 
says theres no evidence it had told Mr T it was guaranteed. But as one call wasnt recorded, 
it paid Mr T compensation because it recognised potentially this couldve happened.
Mr T had a call with Scottish Widows on 21 February 2020 about taking his pension benefits. 
He had already at this time received documentation from Scottish Widows following a recent 
call. The call handler confirmed that this was no longer valid as thirty days had passed and a 
new quote would have to be issued. The call handler confirmed the value of the policy and 
Mr T was surprised to hear it had dropped £700 in a week. The call handler confirmed on a 
number of occasions that the annuity rate was guaranteed for 30 days but the value of the 
policy was not guaranteed. And could go up or down. The tax free-cash sum was stated to 
be £72,000. Mr T asked for documents to be sent so he could consider his options.
Then on 28 February 2020, a second call took place, unfortunately Scottish Widows has 
been unable to provide this as for some reason the recording failed. The call note is also 
very brief. But following this call, Scottish Widows sent a letter confirming the conversation 
the same day to Mr T.
The letter said in bold at the top Please note the values in the letter are not guaranteed. 
It stated the tax-free cash amount as £72,145 and that this was calculated as at 20 February 
2020. There were a number of mentions about guaranteed income but not specifically the 
tax-free cash. However, I can see that this might have caused confusion.
Mr T says that he was led to believe that the quotes were fixed and he would get the value of 
the tax-free cash quoted. Mr T says this is what he was told in the call of 28 February 2020 
and he finds it highly suspicious that this call is missing. And he says that Scottish Widows 
hasnt followed its own procedure, as it says at the start of calls that they will be recorded.
I can understand why Mr T would find the call missing suspicious but where information is 
missing, I have to consider the balance of probabilities and what most likely happened. Up to 
this point, Scottish Widows had in all other communications with him, told him that the values 
werent guaranteed. Its call handlers are trained and have scripts to ensure that the key 
information given is in a specified way. I think its unlikely that in this call the call handler 
would not have followed the same key messages and warnings about his pension values 
and the guarantees as provided in the call of 21 February 2020.
I dont doubt that Mr T expected to receive a value of around £72,000 but I dont think this 
was due to something Scottish Widows did wrong. Mr T had previously been told a number 
of times that the tax-free figure wasnt guaranteed. The fact he was told this prior and it didnt 
register with him or was misunderstood, suggests that if Scottish Widows said this again in 
the missing call, he would still have thought it was guaranteed. 
Furthermore, Mr T then received the letter confirming the details of the conversation. It said 
towards the top of this letter  extract below.
If Mr T had been told in the missing call that his tax-free cash value was guaranteed, I think 
the above ought to have prompted him to realise that was incorrect  as this is contradictory. 
Ultimately I just dont think Mr T had understood, or it had not registered with him, that the 
figure wasnt guaranteed. But I cant hold Scottish Widows responsible for this. And even if 
Scottish Widows had told Mr T something incorrect in the call there was a lot of information 
to the contrary that ought to have made Mr T question what hed been told.
In the event I was to decide that this was something Scottish Widows was responsible for, 
our role is to put a customer back into the position they wouldve been in, if the error hadnt 
occurred. As Mr T is only entitled to the value of his policy at the date all the requirements 
are met and not the value on the quotation, Mr T is not entitled to the £72,000. And so to put 
things right, I wouldnt be awarding him the difference. Instead wed look into whether the 
policy could be re-instated and consider any distress and inconvenience this has caused or 
change of position. Scottish Widows did offer Mr T the opportunity to reinstate the policy and 
return the funds in any event. But Mr T has explained why he couldnt and didnt want to take 
up this option.
As Mr T was unable to take up this resolution, Id need to consider if a payment for distress 
and inconvenience should be awarded and whether his position had been materially 
changed. However, I dont think Scottish Widows was at fault here, it had told Mr T a number 
of times that the values werent guaranteed. And as explained whilst we dont have a record 
of the call, the balance of probabilities suggests that Mr T wasnt told the tax-free cash figure 
was guaranteed in this call. So with reference to this complaint point, I see no grounds to 
award any compensation. Or ask Scottish Widows to do anything more.
Customer service provided and taxation of the pension
Scottish Widows has already agreed to pay Mr T £350 for the trouble and upset caused prior 
to the case being referred our service. This seems to be in relation to the potential that his 
expectations couldve been raised in the missing call. And some confusion caused about 
how the retirement call process would work. And it also acknowledged that its complaint 
manager could have handled the conversation with Mr T more professionally.
Mr T has complained also that Scottish Widows caused a delay as he had to repeat the 
annuity process twice. However, whilst Mr T did have to go through the annuity process 
twice, this was because after contacting Scottish Widows to take his benefits the first time, 
he came back outside the quote guarantee period. So a new quote and process was started. 
So I dont think this delayed matters, although I can understand it may have been frustrating 
for Mr T to have to go through it again. And I recognise in a further call Scottish Widows 
didnt realise that he had restarted the process and began to take him through the discussion 
and script again.
In relation to the tax issue, Mr T says that Scottish Widows incorrectly taxed his pension. 
And hed had issues since with his tax. However, pension providers are reliant on HMRC for 
their tax code information. Scottish Widows has explained and provided evidence that shows 
it initially taxed Mr Ts pension at an emergency rate, as is its process. And then once it 
made HMRC aware of the payments, HMRC sent it the tax code to apply.
Whilst Mr T says he told Scottish Widows his tax situation and rate  this is immaterial. 
Scottish Widows cannot base its taxation on what its customers tell them. Instead it sends 
and receives information to HMRC who will then electronically provide the tax code to use 
for the payments going forward. Before then an emergency rate is used. Scottish Widows 
has shown us that it followed this procedure, so I cant see how it can be at fault if an 
incorrect tax code has been applied. If Mr T thinks hes been taxed incorrectly, he might be 
best speaking to HMRC.
Scottish Widows has accepted it couldve provided better customer service so it has already 
paid Mr T £350 as compensation. Scottish Widows says this has been paid directly to Mr T 
but if for any reason this hasnt been received, Mr T should contact Scottish Widows.
The level of compensation awarded is above what I wouldve awarded had no award been 
made. And as Im not persuaded that Scottish Widows is likely at fault for raising Mr Ts 
expectations, I dont think any further award is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman