DRN-3518968
The complaint
Mr M complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of two claims made under his 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had private medical insurance cover through his employers scheme, provided by 
Bupa. Whilst Mr M was covered under that scheme, he had private treatment for his 
shoulder.
In May 2021, Mr M took out an individual policy with Bupa on a continuation basis. 
Soon after, Mr M made a claim for a consultation relating to his shoulder. Bupa said Mr M 
hadnt told it he had treatment for his shoulder planned or pending when he took out the 
policy. It applied an exclusion for his shoulder.
Mr M then made a second claim as hed experienced stomach pain and wanted to see a 
consultant. As this was shortly after the policy started, Bupa wanted more information from 
Mr Ms GP to confirm when the symptoms began. 
Unhappy with Bupas handling of his claims, Mr M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She explained that she hadnt 
considered whether or not Mr M had misrepresented information about his health when 
taking out the policy, as Bupa hadnt made a finding on that. She thought it had been 
reasonable for Bupa to ask for more information about Mr Ms health before deciding 
whether his claims were valid.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shoulder claim
Bupa is concerned that Mr M may not have answered all the medical questions at the time of 
application correctly. I understand he was asked if he had any planned or pending treatment, 
and he answered no to that question. Shortly after the policy started, he then made a claim 
for a consultation in relation to his shoulder problem. 
When an insurer suspects misrepresentation has occurred, it has a duty to investigate this. 
Bupa has applied an exclusion for Mr Ms shoulder, but has explained that so long as Mr Ms 
consultant confirms that when he last saw Mr M on 30 March 2021, there was no other 
treatment or follow-up planned, then it would remove this exclusion. Im satisfied this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M makes the point that Bupa has covered him since 2008 under previous group 
schemes, and so it holds a lot of information about his health. I appreciate this, and I note 
that when Mr M submitted his application to Bupa, it saw that hed made recent claims in 
respect of his shoulder. It therefore asked Mr Ms broker to confirm with him that his answer 
of no was correct to the question relating to planned or pending treatment. It was confirmed 
to Bupa that Mr Ms answer was correct. I wouldnt have expected Bupa to do any more than 
this.
I note that Bupa had initially applied the exclusion for the wrong shoulder. It apologised for 
its error when Mr M made it aware of this. I think that apology was appropriate.
Stomach claim
Mr Ms claim for his stomach problems was also made shortly after the policy started. Bupa 
has confirmed that its normal process is to request medical information to assess any claim 
made in the first 12 months of cover. 
As our investigator has explained, the policy allows Bupa to request more information when 
a claim is made, and so I see nothing wrong with Bupa doing this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman