DRN-2880035
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him unsuitable advice to transfer the deferred 
benefits of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a personal pension. 
What happened
In 1992 Lloyds gave Mr F advice to transfer the deferred benefits of an OPS into a personal 
pension. 
In June 2020 Mr F complained to Lloyds about the transfer via a complaints management 
company (CMC). The CMC said Lloyds mis-sold Mr F his personal pension as it wasnt 
suitable for him. They said Mr F lost valuable benefits in the transfer including a guaranteed 
income and death benefits for his spouse.
In response, Lloyds said their advice to transfer Mr Fs pension had been included in the 
industry wide Pensions Review. They said Mr Fs pension was reviewed in August 2000 in 
line with the regulators guidance and theyd established that Mr F hadnt suffered a loss due 
to the transfer. So, as the advice to transfer Mr Fs pension had already been reviewed, 
Lloyds said they wouldnt review it again. 
Mr F was unhappy with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to us via the CMC. 
Mr F said he didnt recall ever receiving letters from Lloyds in 2000. Although he said he 
suffered from an illness which meant he could not remember much from before 2007/2008.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said they were 
satisfied that Lloyds completed a review of Mr Fs pension in 2000. And they were also 
satisfied that the review was carried out correctly by following the regulators requirements. 
Our investigator said the review was intended to be a one-off exercise and it wouldnt be fair 
to ask Lloyds to carry out another review.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view, as he said he could not recall receiving any 
letters from Lloyds in 2000 about the review. So, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether I think its likely Lloyds carried out a review of Mr Fs pension in 
2000 given that Mr F doesnt recall receiving any correspondence from Lloyds around that 
time. 
In 1994 the industry regulator ordered a review of sales of pensions between 1988 and 1994 
this was generally known as the Pensions Review. The intention was to invite customers to 
have their pension transfers checked to ensure that theyd been suitable. 
Lloyds havent provided the invitation letter they sent to Mr F but they have given us two 
letters which they say they sent to Mr F in August 2000. The first was regarding Mr Fs 
health. Lloyds said they had obtained a report from Mr Fs doctor regarding his medical 
conditions and had contacted the OPS. Lloyds Pension Review Medical Officer had since 
reviewed the information and concluded that Mr F would not have been awarded an ill health 
early retirement pension from his OPS, so Lloyds would take that information into account 
when they completed their review.
The second letter was dated 15 August 2000 and detailed the conclusion of the review. The 
letter said Lloyds calculations showed there was no cause for concern. The letter also 
included notes that explained the calculations theyd based their review on.
As Mr F has suffered from an illness since 2007/2008 I can appreciate why he cant recall 
receiving correspondence from Lloyds about the pension review. However, based on the 
letters Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds did invite Mr F to have his pension reviewed as part 
of the industry wide Pensions Review. I say that because in order to get a medical report, its 
likely Mr F would have needed to give consent. Therefore, it seems likely that Mr F did 
respond to an invitation from Lloyds to take part in the pensions review. Lloyds have also 
given us the letter they sent at the conclusion of the review. And as decisions to review 
pensions were done having first sought permission from the customer to do so, this supports 
the fact that Mr F likely agreed for his pension to be reviewed. 
Lloyds have also sent us the information and assumptions it based its review calculations 
on. Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in 
hindsight turned out as expected. Thats because investment returns were much lower than 
predicted and annuity rates have fallen. This has caused shortfalls in some personal 
pensions when compared to what policyholders would have got within the OPS. 
But I'm afraid this doesn't mean Lloyds must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the 
Pensions Review, firms were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess any future loss. 
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. Once a firm carried out a Pension Review on a policy, they 
werent required to review it again. 
Businesses carrying out the reviews were also subject to internal and external quality checks 
by the regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out correctly.
I am sorry for the position Mr F finds himself in because of the advice he received to transfer 
his deferred OPS benefits. But as the transfer has been reviewed in line with the regulators 
expectations at the time, Im not able to ask Lloyds to look at it again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman