DRN-3696592
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Estate Capital Financial Management Limited (ECFM) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr J received a letter from BSPS dated 18 September 2017, which showed a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £66,138.82 was offered in return for his deferred 
benefits, reduced by 5% to reflect underfunding of the BSPS, guaranteed until 11 December 
2017.
Mr J had also received a Time to Choose pack from BSPS, and he had until mid-December 
2017 to choose between one of the following options:
Switch to the new British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS 2), providing similar benefits 
as BSPS but with lower future increases; or
Remain with the current BSPS and move into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF); or
Transfer his pension benefits away from the BSPS.
An initial meeting took place between Mr J and an adviser from ECFM on 19 October 2017, 
during which a fact find was completed - this shows his circumstances at the time were as 
follows:
He was 29 years old, single (living with his partner) with no dependants.
He was in good health, a non-smoker, and had no reason to believe he would not 
reach normal life expectancy.
He was employed, with gross annual income of £43,000 and net monthly income of 
£2,200.
His total expenditure of £663 pm provided surplus income of £1,537 pm, although 
this figure didnt include discretionary expenditure.
He held £4,798 in a current account and £4,140 in savings accounts, and £1,989 in
shares.
He owned a property valued at £162,000, subject to a repayment mortgage of 
£78,000 over a remaining term of 21 years, at £463 pm.
He had been a member of the Tata Steel group personal pension scheme since April
2017, into which he was making contributions of 6% a year and his employer was
making contributions of 10% a year  no value was provided.
His attitude to investment risk was recorded as balanced  6 on a scale from 1 to 
10, where 1 was lowest risk and 10 was highest.
Mr Js retirement objectives were recorded as follows:
Retire early at age 60, although his income needs werent known.
He wanted to break all ties with his employer and move funds to an individual plan 
under his control  he had concerns over their financial stability.
He did not consider the BSPS funds represented a significant proportion of his 
potential pension at retirement.
He wanted flexibility at retirement to control the way benefits were paid, depending 
on his circumstances at the time.
He was prepared to risk his benefits in the hope of good returns and the prospect of
retiring early - he was happy to accept a larger degree of risk in exchange for the
possibility of a higher pension in retirement.
In terms of Mr Js deferred benefit entitlement within the BSPS, he had a normal retirement 
age of 65, with a total annual pension of £3,306.58 at his date of leaving the scheme on 31 
March 2017. This figure would increase from his date of leaving to his normal retirement 
age, in line with specified increases, and was estimated to be a starting income of £7,808 pa 
at age 65 or £6,403 a year at age 60, increasing for life.
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was completed on 25 October 2017, indicating the 
amount of growth required by the transferred funds to match those being given up in the 
BSPS. This concluded that the transferred pension funds would need to grow by 6.18% pa 
to match Mr Js full scheme income at his normal retirement age of 65, or 7.05% pa to match 
his full scheme income at age 60. Further, the report concludes the investment would need 
to grow by 4.79% pa to match benefits provided by the PPF at age 65, or 5.41% pa to match 
the benefits provided by the PPF at age 60, in the event of the BSPS moving to the PPF.ECFM recommended that Mr J transfer his benefits from the BSPS to a personal pension 
plan with Nucleus, initially invested in the ECFM Balanced Alpha Edition 27 portfolio. A 
suitability letter was produced by ECFM on 17 November 2017, confirming the reasons for 
the recommendation made and the risks associated with the transfer of Mr Js benefits from 
the BSPS to the personal pension plan.
An illustration was produced and provided to Mr J, which provided projected values of what 
the PPP could be worth in the future, assuming different growth rates. Based upon a mid-
growth rate of -0.40%, after allowing for inflation at 2.5% pa and all charges, the transferred 
funds would be worth £57,000 at age 65.
The illustration also set out the charges applicable to the PPP, including an annual platform 
charge of 0.35% pa and an annual charge for the recommended investment portfolio funds 
of 0.61% pa. In addition, it showed an initial adviser charge of 2% of the CETV would be 
deducted from the personal pension plan at outset and paid to ECFM, with an ongoing 
adviser charge of 0.75% also payable to it.
Mr J signed relevant forms on 21 November 2017 to proceed with the transfer of his benefits 
from the BSPS, which were sent to Nucleus by the adviser from ECFM the following day to 
process the application.
The transfer of Mr Js BSPS benefits took place, with the funds of £66,138 being received by 
Nucleus on 7 March 2018, although these were not invested immediately and remained in 
cash.
A meeting took place between Mr J and the adviser from ECFM on 19 March 2018, during
which it was determined that his approach to the investment of his BSPS funds had changed 
in view of market volatility, and the assessment showed his attitude to investment risk had 
reduced to 3 on the same scale of 1 to 10, indicating a cautious risk attitude  he was 
then advised to invest in the ECFM Conservative Growth portfolio.
Subsequent review meetings have been held between Mr J and the adviser from ECFM 
since the inception of the PPP, and he has since been advised to switch into the ECFM 
Balanced Alpha Edition 35 portfolio, in line with his previously stated attitude to investment 
risk of balanced.
Mr J then raised a complaint about the advice hed received to transfer.
ECFM responded to Mr J with its reasons for disagreeing with him and why it was satisfied 
that the advice he had received was suitable.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr J referred his complaint to this service.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
COBS 2.1.1R within the regulators handbook required a business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
Further, the regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, 
was that it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly 
demonstrated that it was in an individuals best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said that When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, 
pension conversion or pension optout, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 4.7% pa for the more than 30 years up to Mr Js normal 
retirement date (65). This compared to respective required critical yields to match the 
BSPS benefits at 65 of 6.18%, and to match them at 60 of 7.05%. But this didnt 
include the initial advice charge of 2% or the ongoing advice charge of 0.75% pa. 
Had they been included, the critical yields would have been higher.
The pension provider illustration also gave projected rates of growth, with the mid 
band growth rate being 2.10% pa after charges and ignoring the effects of inflation.
Taking these figures into account, the critical yields werent reasonably achievable, 
certainly with Mr Js recorded risk attitude. Mr Js primary objective, as recorded in 
the pension transfer questionnaire, was to increase his pension provision, but there 
was no reasonable prospect of Mr J improving upon the scheme benefits. ECFM 
should have explained to Mr J that the transfer didnt represent good financial value.
Mr J had limited investment experience, owning a relatively small value of shares, 
and hed only been a member of the defined contribution scheme for a few months. 
Mr J wouldnt therefore have had the required risk profile to consider giving up the 
guaranteed BSPS benefits.
Although ECFM had indicated in its final response letter to Mr J that his pension fund 
was on track to meet the target return to match the scheme benefits, the figures had 
been misleading as they didnt include a number of factors such as the adviser 
charges.
The apparent motives for Mr J transferring, such as control seemed to be generic 
rather than specific to him, as required by the regulator. Mr J may have had concerns 
about the BSPS, but these should have been managed, and given the high risks 
associated with the transfer, he should have been advised to remain in it - and then 
transfer into the BSPS 2. 
Risk warnings may have been given, but these wouldnt mean that the advice was 
suitable.
Any flexibility of income needs could have been met by Mr J accessing his accrued 
defined contributions when he came to retire in a tax efficient manner  and would 
have meant that he could defer taking the BSPS benefit until the normal retirement 
age. But the BSPS benefits, if retained, would have formed the bedrock of a 
guaranteed income.There was no justification for Mr J transferring with such a long time to go until 
retirement. It wasnt possible to know what he needs might be at retirement so far in 
advance.
In terms of death benefits, the TVAS showed that the capital value of the death 
benefits before retirement were significantly higher than those which would be 
provided by the PPP for at least the first 20 years after transferring. And the reduction 
in that capital value was particularly relevant as Mr J married in 2021 and his spouse 
would have been entitled to valuable scheme benefits in the event of his death.
Had the scheme benefits moved into the PPF, Mr J wouldnt have been entitled to a 
CETV, but he would have been under the BSPS 2, and could then have made any 
decision about whether to transfer as and when he needed to closer to retirement.
Had Mr Js concerns about the BSPS been appropriately managed, he would have 
viewed things differently  and had he been advised to retain his scheme benefits 
rather than transfer, he would have done so.
The investigator recommended that ECFM undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr J
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Js pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr J, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr J agreed with the investigators findings. ECFM didnt, however, saying the following in 
summary:
A consistent approach should be taken, and comparing the PPP with the benefits of 
the old scheme wasnt viable, and so wasnt indicative of the guaranteed income Mr J 
would receive. If it was to be assumed that the BSPS 2 would have been Mr Js 
choice, then this should be the comparator scheme. But if doing nothing would have 
been more likely to lead to the fund moving into the PPF, then this was the relevant 
benchmark.
The hurdle rates (relevant given that Mr J was single at the time) to match the PPF 
benefits at 65 and 60 were below the discount rate in every scenario.
It had undertaken further financial modelling, which demonstrated that Mr J hadnt 
been financially disadvantaged and has the potential to improve upon his scheme 
benefits.
If Mr J was more likely to access his benefits by drawdown, and that he would take 
maximum tax free cash (as most people do) then the critical yields at age 65 (4.21% 
for the BSPS 2 and 4.25% for the PPF) and 60 were viable.
The illustrations were inflation adjusted, so the fund values quoted were in todays 
terms. The annuity capital value to replicate the annual income from the scheme 
was not in a todays terms figure  it was simply the sum which would be required 
to buy an annuity.The actual likelihood of whether the fund would be sufficient to match the scheme 
benefits depended largely on the level of investment risk Mr J was prepared to take, 
and his capacity for loss.
Mr Js attitude to risk was assessed as being high, and as he was young and making 
substantial defined contributions, he also had a high capacity for loss. Mr J 
acknowledged this at the time.
Mr J also said that he had some investment experience  he was an educated man 
with a good degree of understanding. It had to rely on the response given in the 
questionnaire and any inconsistencies werent so great as to cause concern.
Mr J had largely maintained his balanced risk approach and investment strategy. 
ECFM had written to Mr J since the complaint was made with three options as to how 
he wished to conduct his investment strategy and hed elected to remain in the 
Estate Capital portfolio and pay the ongoing advice charge, so as to benefit from 
regular rebalancing. This demonstrated a willingness to continue to invest and pay 
for the service, despite lower than normal investment returns over the previous six 
years, when he could just transfer the fund to his GPP and pay lower charges.
In terms of the death benefits, it took issue with the comment about the benefits 
which would be payable to Mrs J, as Mr J wasnt married at the time of the advice, 
and so this was with the benefit of hindsight.
Further, Mrs J wouldnt be entitled to the capital value of his CETV, but a 50% 
spouses pension and a return of Mr Js contributions (£13,750). But through the 
PPP, she and any children would receive the full fund value as a lump sum, free of 
tax.
As to the investigators comment that, had Mr J not transferred, he wouldnt need to 
rely upon uncertain future returns to meet his income requirements, he didnt have an 
income requirement at the time of the advice. Further, the critical yield which the 
investigator said demonstrated the lack of financial viability was against the BSPS 
rather than the PPF or BSPS 2.
There was no clear methodology in the investigators assessment, but the critical 
yields werent in any case high or unachievable  and Mr J would have the 
opportunity to greatly improve on the eventual pension fund.
ECFM provided cashflow modelling figures which it said demonstrated the financial 
viability of the transfer. Even though the CETV may have been high, and it 
acknowledged that this wouldnt of itself be a reason to transfer, this still had a 
bearing on viability as the critical yields were achievable given Mr Js risk tolerance  
and were well below the quoted discount rate.
It also provided two reports which it said demonstrated that the pension fund could 
sustain and improve upon the income levels projected by both the PPF and BSPS 2. 
That Mr Js funds had grown in value by more than the rate of CPI demonstrated the 
potential to increase his pension, particularly over the 35 years left to retirement. 
On the basis of its modelling, even replicating the full PPF or BSPS 2 income from 65 
and indexation of 2%, the fund would last until age 90 and leave a healthy residual 
fund value.It acknowledged that there was question over whether it could ever be sufficiently 
clearly demonstrated that a transfer was in a clients best interests when reliance 
needed to be placed upon future growth assumptions over decades. But its approach 
had been conservative and the past performance had been roughly equivalent to the 
reduced critical yields, despite significant market downturns.
There was also a corollary to this, which was that those with long term investment 
horizons had the advantage of time in the market when considering financial viability. 
Returns couldnt be guaranteed, as it set out in the suitability report, but it considered 
the critical yields were low enough that there was a reasonable chance of improving 
on the scheme benefits.
It considered that it had demonstrated how likely it was that the scheme guarantees 
would be able to be replicated, or even improved upon, in the event of Mr J needing 
to access his BSPS-derived pension funds.
ECFM also challenged the basis of the proposed redress calculation, saying that the 
comparator should be the PPF rather than the BSPS 2. In support of this, it said the 
following:
The BSPS 2 didnt exist at the time of the advice and its structure wasnt known 
under the Time to Choose exercise. There were conditions which needed to be met 
for the BSPS 2 to be implemented.
If a member didnt make a decision, then they would default into the PPF. This was 
the only option open to members.
Although the BSPS 2 did then go ahead, any conclusion that Mr J would have opted 
to join that scheme was based on hindsight.
Members were provided with amended CETVs from 11 September 2017, and were 
told that the trustees would only consider a new transfer post 11 December 2017 if 
the member had opted to remain in the BSPS, rather than join the BSPS 2.
The trustees also said that those who opted to join the BSPS 2 wouldnt be able to 
then transfer out until after the BSPS 2 had potentially been created  and that 
transfer values would be lower due to lower escalation rates and increases to 
pensions in deferments in the new scheme.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the investigator said that it would be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator then enquired of Mr J as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his 
preference would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await 
the new methodology for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
Mr J confirmed that hed like any redress calculation to be conducted on the basis of the 
existing guidance, until the new guidance came into force.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require ECFM to use the 
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr J.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Js complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023. Neither party has raised an objection to the use of that calculator.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time ECFM advised Mr J were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like ECFM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, ECFM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Js 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of ECFMs advice to Mr J in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
ECFMs rationale for transferring
Mr J wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and ECFM was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, ECFM could be confident that he would be acting 
upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr J and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Js options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr J would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
I think its fair to say that this represents the mainstay of ECFMs argument for the suitability 
of the advice  that there was a reasonable prospect of Mr J not only matching, but 
improving upon, the pension benefits Mr J would otherwise have received from the scheme. 
ECFM obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Js objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 4.7% pa. And the mid band growth rate used to illustrate the benefits which 
might be payable from a PPP was 2.10% pa. 
The critical yields to age 65, at 6.18% (or 5.34% for tax free cash and a reduced pension) 
and then 7.05% (or 6.1% for tax free cash and a reduced pension) to age 60 therefore 
comfortably exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same 
period, and the mid growth rate used by the pension provider. 
The critical yields to match those which would be produced by the PPF at age 65 were 
4.79% pa (or 4.55% for tax free cash and a reduced pension), and 5.41% pa (or 5.17% for 
tax free cash and a reduced pension) to age 60.
I acknowledge the point made by ECFM that the above critical yields were calculated on the 
basis of the BSPS benefits, rather than the BSPS 2 benefits. And it has asserted that the 
relevant comparator would be the benefits Mr J would have received from the PPF. But I 
dont accept that the more likely course of action for Mr J here would be that he would have 
done nothing, and accepted that his BSPS benefits would move into the PPF. Put simply, he 
didnt do nothing  he sought advice from ECFM and, for the reasons which I set out in this 
decision, my view is that the advice should have been to move into the BSPS 2. 
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr Js own projected benefits, I 
think it ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor 
scheme as well. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming critical yields slightly 
lower than those for the BSPS  and likely somewhere in between those and the critical 
yields for the PPF - wouldnt be unreasonable in estimating those which might be required 
for the BSPS 2. But these would still have been higher than the discount and mid band 
growth rates set out above.
ECFM has said that it was the hurdle rates which were more relevant here, but these 
stripped out not only the spouses benefit, which I accept wouldnt have been unreasonable 
given Mr Js single status at the time (although I think it needed to be taken into account that 
this might very well change, given his age and the number of years to retirement  and 
indeed as did then happen soon after), but also the effect of the escalation in the scheme pension and the guarantee period. So I dont agree that it was a realistic comparison for the 
scheme benefits which Mr J would be relinquishing.
And I think its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on 
year, for the number of years that Mr J had until he reached either early or normal retirement 
age. And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. 
Ive noted the financial modelling that ECFM has done to try to demonstrate that Mr J has 
the potential to improve on the BSPS (or BSPS 2) benefits, but for the reasons given above, 
I dont agree with the premise on which this has been based  that Mr J would have moved 
into the PPF, or that the hurdle rate is a suitable comparator.
Ive also noted the comments that the growth in the PPP funds since the advice has 
outstripped the CPI revaluation rate applicable within the scheme. I dont think I need to 
labour this point, given what is known about inflation since the investigators view and 
ECFMs response to that view, and even though the revaluation rates within the BSPS 2 for 
two years of Mr Js service would have been CPI capped at 4%, with a further four being CPI 
capped at 3%, and the remainder CPI capped at 2.5%, I doubt that this remains the case. 
And this is rather the point. Notwithstanding the fact that it is the critical yields upon which 
more focus needs to be placed, Mr J had over 35 years until his prospective retirement, and 
whilst looking at fund performance and CPI over a few years might suggest that, if that trend 
continued, the funds would perform well, that trend needed to be sustained for a very long 
time. And the reasonable likelihood of that kind of stable environment for that length of time 
was, in my view, low. 
Ive also noted what ECFM has said about Mr Js risk rating, and this being consistent with 
the types of return required to improve on the scheme benefits. But in the suitability report, 
ECFM said that Mr J could best be summarised as a balanced investor. Or, as in the 
following sentence, a balanced to speculative investor. On the basis of a 6 out of 10 
rating, however, where 1 was lowest risk and 10 was the highest, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr J was probably more balanced than speculative. As such, I think his 
level of risk was likely consistent with the mid band growth and discount rate assumptions as 
set out above  both of which were lower than the critical yields required to match the 
scheme benefits.
And I think its also worth noting that it was ECFMs own stated opinion in the suitability 
report that the critically yields would more likely than not be unachievable over the long term 
given the average growth of a portfolio which would be suitable for Mr Js attitude to risk.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Js best 
interests. And in line with my comments above, my view is that the transfer couldnt be 
justified from a financial perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr J 
would be relinquishing.
But I think its also worth pointing out that, even if the critical yields were reasonably 
achievable, the feasibility of achieving them alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirementBefore I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that ECFM did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as ECFM will be 
aware, and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable 
advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this 
also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. ECFM needed to be satisfied, 
before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the 
investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr J.
As Ive said above, ECFMs reasoning for the recommended transfer, alongside the potential 
for Mr J to improve upon those which would have been produced by the scheme if he took a 
higher level of risk, was that Mr J required flexibility of income due to his particular 
circumstances, objectives, and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme. And 
so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr J may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
And as commented above, I also think its quite possible that Mr J had a balanced risk 
rating, given his age and number of years to retirement. I also agree with ECFM that the 
more significant part of his overall pension benefits would be represented by the defined 
contribution scheme accrual. Mr J would likely have accrued a significant amount of money 
purchase benefits given the overall contribution rate (if he remained with the same employer) 
by retirement. But other than BSPS membership and the state pension which wouldnt be 
payable until age 67, Mr J had no other guaranteed benefits. Through transferring, Mr J was 
effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase basket. Any reduction in the 
benefits payable from them would therefore have had an impact on his financial security in 
retirement.
But I also dont think Mr J in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr J would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. 
But other than concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill address 
further below, its unclear as to why Mr J would have wanted or needed such flexibility at the 
cost of such valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the 
transfer, and bearing in mind his balanced attitude to risk and apparent lack of any similar 
historical investment (other than just under £2,000 in shares) which might otherwise indicate 
a preparedness to take risks with his pension income.
Ive also thought about whether Mr J could meet an objective of retiring early whilst also 
retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And in my 
consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr J to take tax free cash 
from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income.
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr J would have accrued around 35 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 30 years by age 60. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the employer and employee contribution rates, 
this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible benefits and his 
OPS/state pension beginning. Its possible that he could have relied on the proceeds of his 
defined contributions plan for flexible access to pension benefits, from whatever age after 
60, and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when 
needed.  Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
left to age 65  although I would say that I dont think the actual income requirement was 
demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any case reasonably have been 
known with any certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr J could then have begun to 
take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr J would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual, 
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this 
way.
Mr J may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher 
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply 
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his child or extended family, 
immediately gift it away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
The suitability report suggested that Mr J was willing to accept the trade-off between a 
secure income and risk to achieve his objectives. As Ive said above, although Mr J didnt 
have any particular financial experience, I think he may have understood the principle of 
risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by ECFM. 
But as Ive noted above, Mr J was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution 
scheme, and given the likely accumulation of funds in that scheme, compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme retirement age, around 35 
years of his pension accrual at age 65 (or 30 at age 60) would likely be derived of the 
defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr J would already by necessity have been taking 
investment risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the 7 or so years up to that point Mr J had been accruing 
defined benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been 
of some value, as commented by the investigator a bedrock of guaranteed benefits, and 
shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which was loosely defined 
around the apparent desire for early retirement and concerns around the employer/scheme. 
And on that particular note, as with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr J 
would have been concerned about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But 
Mr Js concerns around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that 
there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr J distrusted it. Further, although Ive noted ECFMs comments relating 
to the BSPS not yet being in place, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which had 
resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity 
of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and in fact by 
the point of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a 
viable alternative.
As Ive said above, the prospect of Mr Js accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had 
receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided 
him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he 
did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. And so I think that, had Mr Js concerns been better managed, the seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
Mr J simply didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits at 
that point. The prospect of Mr Js accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. 
But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with 
valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in 
fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
Mr Js plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 30 or so 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 60. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Js retirement  and Mr J would have 
been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if needed.
There may have been lower CETVs offered in the future if gilt yields and other market 
factors changed, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr J could have achieved a degree of 
flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all. And even if he did 
ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option  and again, this could 
have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr J or his adviser could then 
assess at that point whether the transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr J to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
ECFM confirmed that the restructuring of the death benefits wasnt recorded as being a 
priority for Mr J. But I would comment that accrued pension provision is intended to provide 
for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for extended family 
members. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Js best interests, 
and I think Mr J himself identified this.
What should ECFM have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Js decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr J. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr J to make any decision
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of ECFM to
explain to Mr J why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive also said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Js scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have 
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point 
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be 
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr J was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr J, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement 
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the
scenario of entry into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Js
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of 
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr J to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 29.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Js concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon 
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise 
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, should Mr Js relationship circumstances change in the 
future (as it did), albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid band
growth rate set out by the pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely
to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, given Mr Js
recorded risk attitude.
Taking account of Mr Js circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 
2 or the PPF, my view is that ECFM should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr J would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr J, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Js recorded attitude to risk 
and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required 
to match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a 
comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr Js options and the future benefits available 
(which could have incorporated an element of both guaranteed and non-guaranteed 
benefits) from both the BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to take 
account of COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr J were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of
scheme benefits which would have been available to him. My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Js recorded attitude to risk with 
regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment 
returns, it was unlikely (as also indicated by ECFM at the time), albeit I acknowledge, not 
impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, could be 
bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, 
ECFM would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring 
wasnt in Mr Js best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
In terms of the option Mr J would have chosen, had he been suitably advised, Ive noted that 
there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.
Regarding death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Js pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But as Mr J was single at the time I dont think this particular 
enhancement over the PPF benefits would have had much resonance for him.
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of 
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have 
been higher with the PPF.
One of Mr Js recorded objectives was the ability to retire early. And so this would have been 
a point which required careful consideration when weighing up whether he should opt for the 
BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move into the PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, even if Mr J envisaged retiring early, I think its likely that, 
properly advised, he could have accessed his defined contribution scheme benefits to make 
up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined 
benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age. The 
advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I therefore consider that Mr J would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. And as Ive set out 
above, given the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr J 
would take his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined 
above, of accessing his accrued defined contributions flexibly if required.Estate Capital Financial Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Estate Capital Financial Management Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr J and our service upon completion of the calculation.
The compensation calculation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Estate Capital Financial Management Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts Estate Capital Financial Management Limiteds offer to calculate how 
much of its redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not 
charge Mr J for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its 
redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Estate Capital Financial Management Limited 
to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Estate Capital Financial Management Limited pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Estate Capital Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Estate Capital Financial Management Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr J could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr J may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Estate Capital Financial 
Management Limited to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman