DRN-1963923
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Following a trip to Gambia in 2015, Mr M agreed to purchase a plot of land from a property 
development company. Mr M says he visited the plots for sale and spoke with the manager 
of the company. He was given various paperwork for the plot, including a brochure, and 
signed a sales agreement for the purchase.
Mr M initially sent £2,500 to the managers UK account in March 2015, as a deposit. He then 
sent six further payments of between £250 and £600 between December 2015 and 
September 2016.
The manager of the development company was emailing Mr M with updates, but these 
emails stopped around 2018. And when Mr M visited Gambia in 2018, he was told the land 
purchase was a scam. He then contacted Nationwide to ask that his money be refunded.
Nationwide investigated but didnt agree to refund the money as it said Mr M had contacted 
them too long after the payments had been made. Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides 
response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
the payments werent unusual or out of character for Mr M, so Nationwide couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to stop them. And that it was unlikely any further action 
Nationwide could have taken would have led to the payments being recovered. Mr M 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwide has acted reasonably in not refunding the payments. Ill 
explain why below.
Its not in dispute that Mr M authorised each of the payments, as he says he made them. So 
while I recognise that he didnt intend the money to be sent as part of a scam, under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mr M is liable for the 
payments.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive considered whether Nationwide should have identified that Mr M was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of any of the payments.
The first payment wasnt for a particularly large amount. There were a number of 
transactions on the account for similar or larger amounts during the previous six months, so I 
dont think the payment was particularly out of character or unusual. It was done as a 
domestic bank transfer, which wouldve have looked particularly suspicious to Nationwide. 
And it didnt leave the balance of the account at an unusual level compared with where it had 
been in previous months.
And the later payments were all for smaller amounts, so I dont think these were out of 
character or unusual either. They were also domestic bank transfers and didnt leave the 
account balance at unusual levels. And there were several weeks or months between all 
these payments, so it would have been difficult for Nationwide to spot any suspicious pattern 
or even to identify that the payments were linked.
So I think its reasonable that Nationwide didnt identify that Mr M was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result of any of the payments. I dont think it acted unreasonably in not stopping 
the payments or carrying out any additional checks before processing them. And so I dont 
think I can fairly say Nationwide should have done more to prevent Mr M falling victim to the 
scam.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide couldve done more to try to recover the money, 
once it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the receiving bank. But it had been more than two years since the 
last payment when Mr M told Nationwide about the scam. So I think its very unlikely 
Nationwide could have done anything further to recover the money and I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.
I sympathise with the position Mr M has found himself in. And my decision shouldnt be 
taken as saying I dont think he was the victim of a scam or that he was treated fairly by the 
property development company. But I cant hold Nationwide responsible for him falling victim 
to a scam or require it to take specific action against the people who carried out the scam. I 
can only look at whether Nationwide has acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Ms complaint. 
And, for the reasons given above, I think it has.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman