The complaint
Mr A complains about two whole of life policies he has with Phoenix Life Limited (trading as 
Sun Life). In particular hes unhappy that it wont provide him with the paperwork to assign 
the benefit of the policies to his son. Hes also unhappy that his funeral cover benefit cant be 
moved from one policy to another and that he wont get any money back if he cancels the 
policies.
Whats happened so far
Mr A raised his concerns with Phoenix Life in February 2018. It gave him its answer on 13 
April 2018. It explained that the funeral benefit option (FBO) couldn't be moved from one 
policy to another and it accepted that it had given him incorrect information as to which 
policy had that benefit. It also said that it couldn't issue trust documents to him.  It paid him 
£50 as an apology for the problems he had encountered.
Phoenix Life then explained in subsequent correspondence with Mr A about assigning the 
policies, that this had been addressed in its response sent to him in April 2018.  
Mr As concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. He explained that we couldnt 
investigate Mr As concerns about the FBO and assigning the policy. This was because 
those aspects of his complaint had been made out of time. He went onto explain why he 
didnt think Phoenix Life had done anything wrong in telling Mr A that he wouldnt get any 
money back if he cancelled the policies. Mr A didnt agree so the complaint has been passed 
to me for review.
Can we look at all of Mr As concerns?
When coming to a decision, I must apply the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, as set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules set out (amongst other things), the 
time limits in which a complaint must be brought to this service. DISP rule 2.8.2R is relevant 
to this complaint. It says that, where a business doesnt consent, I cant consider a complaint 
which is referred to me more than six months after the date it sends the customer its final 
response letter advising them, they may refer the complaint to this service. 
Phoenix Life issued its final response on 13 April 2018. The response covered Mr As 
concerns about trust documentation not being provided, which Mr A wanted Phoenix Life to 
provide so his son could take the benefit of the policies. It also answered his concerns about 
the FBO. So, Mr A had until 13 October 2018 to refer his complaint about these issues to 
this service. But he didnt refer his complaint to us until 29 August 2019. So, Im satisfied 
these aspects of his complaint have been referred to us out of time under the rules that 
apply.
I am, however, permitted to investigate complaints made outside of the usual time limits 
where I think the failure to comply with the time limits was a result of exceptional 
DRN-1382285circumstances. Mr A has said he was waiting for the business who sold him the policies to 
respond to the mis-sale complaint he had made against it, which is why didnt pursue the 
complaint about Phoenix life. 
But Im not persuaded this constitutes exceptional circumstances and that Mr A wasnt able  
to refer his complaint to us before he did so.  I say this because the example of exceptional 
circumstances given in the rules is that of a person being incapacitated, so physically not 
able to refer their complaint in time. So, to be satisfied exceptional circumstances apply, Id 
need to be convinced that the reasons explain why Mr A was unable to bring his complaint to 
this service in time. 
Im satisfied that Mr A realised the complaint about Phoenix Life was a separate complaint 
from the complaint he made about the business who sold him the policies.  And Im also 
satisfied he was aware of the time in which he needed to bring his concerns about Phoenix 
Life to our service, as the referral terms were clearly outlined in the final response letter from 
it. And its subsequent correspondence with Mr A it made clear that it had given him its final 
response. So, I think (for the reason hes told us), Mr A chose  not to bring his complaint to 
this service rather him not being able to do so. 
What I think and why
I can look at is Mr As concerns about not getting the premiums he has paid into the policies 
back, if he cancelled them. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why. 
When Mr A took out the policies, he would have been provided with a policy summary which 
set out the terms and conditions. Section 7 was headed How do I cancel the Plan? This 
says:
You can change your mind within 30 dayscomplete and return the form within 30 
daysSun Life will refund any premiums you have paid. After this you may cancel your plan 
at any time in writing. If you do cancel, your life cover will stop and you wont get anything 
back. 
So, as Mr A enquired about cancelling his policies outside the 30-day period he had to 
change his mind, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life gave Mr A correct information about the 
cancellation terms for his policies.
My understanding is that Phoenix Life gave Mr A a period of grace to reinstate cancelled 
policies.  Its a matter for it as to whether it allows Mr A to reinstate any cancelled policies.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Simon DibbleOmbudsman