DRN-3090302
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Metro Bank PLC have unfairly refused to reimburse money he lost as 
part of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr Z fell victim to a scam where he gave remote access to his 
online banking to a scammer purporting to be from his broadband company Sky. The 
scammer knew his name and details and said they were calling to test the speed of his 
connection. 
The scammer said that Mr Z was due a refund due to his sub-par connection speed. He was 
instructed to download remote access software on his mobile and access his online banking 
so the refund could be verified. However, Mr Z was unaware that by doing this, he had 
allowed the scammer access to his online banking, where the following payments were then 
made from his account without his knowledge:
 
Date Event Amount
18/03/2021 Outward SWIFT Payment
gopinathan nair jayasankar
SW- INGBPLPW€1990.00
+€20 transaction 
fee
18/03/2021 Outward SWIFT Payment
gopinathan nair jayasankar
SW- INGBPLPW€1970.00
+€20 transaction 
fee
18/03/2021 Outward SWIFT Payment
gopinathan nair jayasankar
SW- INGBPLPW€1965.00
+€20 transaction 
fee
18/03/2021 Outward SWIFT Payment
gopinathan nair jayasankar
SW- INGBPLPW€1969.00
+€20 transaction 
fee
18/03/2021 Outward SWIFT Payment
gopinathan nair jayasankar
SW- INGBPLPW€1900.00
+€20 transaction 
fee
  Total (including transaction fees) €9,894.00
Metro offered to refund the transaction fees Mr Z was charged, but declined to refund the 
money he had lost to the scammer, as it believes that Mr Z initiated and authorised the 
payments, even though he was duped into doing so, such that he is liable for loss. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mr Z had likely authorised the 
transactions, and neither did he think he was grossly negligent in allowing the payments to 
be made. Metro Bank disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. 
Metro Bank are aware of the relevant considerations and approach this service takes to 
unauthorised scams and its obligations under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs 2017). It has had several decisions setting this out in the past, so I do not intend to 
repeat it all again here. 
Metro submit that Mr Z authorised the payments that were made from his account on 
18 March 2021. But in order for a payment to be regarded as authorised it is necessary for 
Mr Z to have given his consent to the execution of the relevant payment transactions. And, 
according to Regulation 67 of the PSRs 2017, consent must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service 
provider.
In this instance, the scammers asked Mr Z to input a series of codes into his phone. It turns 
out that these codes were in fact payment amounts being entered into his online banking for 
the payments to be made. But Mr Z was unaware that he was inputting details for a 
transaction to be made from his account. He was told that the codes would allow the refund 
to be paid to his account once the digits had been entered. Metro has also said itself that it 
was part of the scam to mislead Mr Z into believing he was following a process rather than 
making a transfer. So, it follows that he cant have given his consent to the execution of the 
payment transactions, as he was under the impression that money would be paid into his 
account, not being transferred out of it. 
The payment services directive itself (which the PSRs 2017 implement) states that in the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. 
Therefore, given I dont consider Mr Z provided his consent for these payments to be made 
from his account, Im satisfied they are to be considered as unauthorised for the purposes 
of the PSRs 2017.
I note that Metro has cited certain provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code). However, the CRM Code only applies to authorised push payments where the 
customer has given consent for a payment to be made. As outlined above, I do not consider 
there was any consent given in this instance, so the payments cannot be regarded as 
authorised, meaning the CRM Code does not apply. Even if these payments could be 
considered as authorised, the Code would not apply in any event given Mr Zs account was 
not denominated in GBP. So, Ive therefore considered these payments as unauthorised in 
line with the regulations set out in the PSRs 2017.
Did Mr Z act with intent or gross negligence  particularly taking into account the 
terms and conditions of his relationship with Metro Bank and the obligations set out 
in the PSRs 2017?
I dont think Metro Bank have suggested that Mr Z failed to comply with his obligations under 
Regulation 72 of the PSRs with intent, and neither have I seen any evidence that would 
suggest this either. So I do not intend to explore this point any further.
However, I have considered whether the actions Mr Z took fell so far below the standard of a 
reasonable person that he could be said to have failed with gross negligence to take all 
reasonable steps to keep his security information safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account. Gross negligence is not an abstract concept. Its important to take into account all the 
circumstances when considering whether an individuals action amount to gross negligence. 
Scams such as the one experienced by Mr Z are very sophisticated, and its likely the 
fraudster used a range of social engineering techniques to trick, deceive and manipulate him 
into following their instructions and inadvertently allowing access to his internet banking and 
confidential security information.
Mr Z has explained that Sky is his broadband provider. So, when they contacted him to test 
his connection speed and explained that he was due a refund, he didnt think he had any 
reason to doubt the legitimacy of the person he was speaking to, particularly as they already 
knew his name when the contacted him. Mr Z had also said that the scammer sounded very 
convincing, and that it sounded like they were in a real call centre. I dont think it was entirely 
implausible for Mr Z to think he might be due a refund if his connection speed was operating 
below an acceptable standard. And it was all of these circumstances combined that led Mr Z 
to trust the person he was speaking to, and to follow their instructions to download the 
remote access software and input codes in order for his refund to be processed. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Z followed the fraudsters instructions and downloaded the apps to 
his phone that likely allowed them to take control of his device, I dont think he knew this 
software would allow the fraudster to do this. And given Mr Z thought he was dealing with a 
business he knew, trusted, and had dealt with before, I think a lot of people would have 
believed what the scammer was saying. 
So, I think its most likely that Mr Z thought the apps he was downloaded and the codes he 
was inputting were to assist him in obtaining the refund he thought he was due from Sky. It 
was in this context he took the steps that he did, and I think a lot of people in a similar 
position wouldve behaved in a similar way in those circumstances. It therefore follows that I 
dont think the actions Mr Z took fell so far below the standards of a reasonable person, such 
that he failed with gross negligence to keep his personalised security details safe or to 
comply with the terms and conditions of his account. And so I conclude that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Metro Bank to provide a full refund to Mr Zs account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to refund 
the full amount Mr Z lost to the scammer, including any associated transaction fees. Metro 
Bank should also add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman