DRN-4346499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their storm damage claim.
Mr and Mrs B jointly held buildings and contents insurance underwritten by AXA. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr B throughout.
What happened
During strong winds, Mr Bs garage roof blew off and landed in the neighbouring garden. He 
claimed under his policy.
AXA appointed a surveyor who reported that the garage roof hadnt been held down by roof 
straps. AXA declined the claim for the garage roof under the policy exclusion of poor 
workmanship.
Mr B complained to AXA. He said the garage had been there long before he moved in less 
than a year earlier, and his home survey report hadnt highlighted any problems.
AXA sent a final response to Mr Bs claim confirming its decision to decline his claim, so Mr 
B brought his complaint to us.
After seeking further information from AXA, our investigator didnt think it was fair to rely on 
building regulations which the garage pre-dated. She said AXA should settle the claim.
AXA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator.
Both parties are aware of the three considerations when looking at a complaint about a 
storm damage claim:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
Theres no dispute that there were strong winds on the day which significantly exceeded the 
55 mph policy definition of a storm. Nor is there any dispute that such winds can cause roof 
damage. So Ill address the main issue of dispute which is whether the wind was the main 
cause for the roof blowing off the garage.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by a storm?
The evidence shows wind gusts of at least 78 mph on the day. Reliable weather data 
sources refer to this as a hurricane. To put this into perspective, a storm is a wind speed of 
55-63 mph, described as causing damage such as uprooting trees and considerable 
structural damage. A hurricane is anything above 73 mph and is described as causing 
devastation.
Based on the wind strength alone, I think its reasonable to say that the storm couldve been 
wholly responsible for the garage roof blowing off.
Ive looked at why AXA declined the claim. It said the roof hadnt been secured with straps in 
line with regulations. Mr B had two roofers provide quotes for repair. One confirmed there 
hadnt been any roof straps, so AXAs evidence is not disputed. But the roofers also said 
roof straps might not have been required when the garage was built around 40 years earlier. 
AXA provided evidence of building regulations which related to 2017 and later, so I cant say 
AXA has demonstrated that the poor workmanship exclusion applies.
Mr B provided evidence in the form of photos, a witness statement, and two roofers reports 
which confirm the roof blew off in the storm. But I dont find that AXA has shown the 
exclusion it relied on applies. Its description of the garage refers, mainly, to the standard of 
blockwork. But as the garage stood for around 40 years, I dont find that a credible reason to 
decline the claim. 
Mr B also provided a copy of his home survey from when he bought the house earlier in the 
year. It doesnt highlight any issues with the garage roof.
Its reasonable to expect that a well-maintained home should withstand all but the most 
severe weather conditions. The photos show that the garage roof came off in one piece 
during a storm, also bringing down what appears to be the concrete lintel. Given the wind 
speed at the time, Im satisfied that its reasonable to say the hurricane can be classed as a 
severe weather condition. Therefore, its also reasonable to say that the garage roof, more 
likely than not, blew off mainly because of the storm. 
I dont find that AXA fairly declined the claim.
Putting things right
As Ive decided AXA unfairly declined the claim, it must put matters right. Im satisfied that it 
should accept Mr and Mrs Bs storm damage claim for their garage roof.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
settle the claim for storm damage to their garage roof.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman