DRN-1802132
The complaint
Mrs E says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs E took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2006 at the same time as 
she applied to re-mortgage on the phone. The plan included PPI which gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for the cover. She also 
selected life and critical illness cover. This complaint looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete 
(as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities  so, on what 
I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we know about how Halifax 
sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs E told us she wasnt made aware of the PPI, but shes also said she cant remember if it 
was suggested. She says she would have declined it due to her circumstances. There is no 
call recording available, so I cant know what was said on the call. But this isnt surprising or 
unreasonable as it was so long ago  and it doesnt automatically mean the PPI was mis-
sold. Based on what we know about the banks sales process, I think its most likely Mrs E 
selected which elements of the cover she wanted after discussion with the bank. I say this as 
Halifax has provided a sample of the script it used when selling TMPP at this time. And I 
cant find enough evidence to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process for this 
sale. 
It has been able to provide the letter it sent Mrs E after the call which starts Thank you for 
choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan. This suggests to me it had been 
presented as optional to Mrs E on the call, and that she had agreed to take it. The letter 
confirmed that her application for PPI had been accepted and asked her to get in touch if 
any of the information was wrong. So had she not wanted PPI I wouldve expected her to 
contact the bank then.
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mrs E had a choice about PPI - and she 
opted to take it out. I can understand she might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was. Mrs E asked, in response to our adjudicator - who made the same finding, why have we 
decided in the banks favour without more evidence. But this isn't the case. Ive weighed up 
the available evidence from both sides. As I said earlier, as its incomplete without the call 
recording, Ive reached my conclusion based on what I consider is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Theres no 
benefit for me to find in the favour of one party over the other - as an independent and 
impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks.
Mrs E says Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to her. The bank has said it did. And I have 
reviewed the sale on that basis as it means the bank had more obligations to meet during 
the sales process: it means they had to check if the PPI was right for Mrs E. I know she feels 
strongly it wasnt, but I think it seems to have been suitable based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs E told us she was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her work 
benefits for up to 12 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. And it also 
offered redundancy cover for up to 12 months. This would have allowed her to protect any 
lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mrs E said she had a small amount of savings but the PPI wouldve allowed her to use these 
to cover other living expenses whilst not working or to keep them intact for her future needs. 
Mrs E also says she had another insurance covering accident, sickness and death so didnt 
need PPI. I can see she had life and critical illness insurances that she took out at the same 
time as this policy. But these covered different events and wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
Mrs E was borrowing a large sum over a long period of time, secured against her home, and 
given the consequences of missing mortgage payments I think the PPI wouldve been useful 
if Mrs E was sick or lost her job. 
Mrs E says she wasnt told about the cost or benefits, or the exclusions and limits. I agree 
that its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs E all the information she needed before deciding to 
buy PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mrs E 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when 
it first made the cost clear, but the policy was fairly priced in the market and offered a 
competitive benefit level. So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve 
changed her mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mrs E has lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman