DRN-2261083
The complaint
Mr V is complaining about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) refusing to meet a claim hes 
made for damage caused by spilled paint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in September. In summary, this is what I 
said:
Mr V made a claim for damage caused by spilled paint  he thinks a container of paint stored 
on a cabinet in his bedroom exploded, spraying paint around his room and damaging some 
clothing, paintwork and the carpet.
Ageas said it would consider Mr Vs complaint, and suggested he get his clothing 
professionally cleaned straight away. Mr V didnt think that was right  but I said I thought it 
was a sensible suggestion, given that its often more successful if stains are cleaned straight 
away. And I also said I thought that it was reasonable for Ageas to suggest this, as the terms 
and conditions of Mr Vs policy allowed Ageas to try to repair items.
Ageas had a report produced about what had happened, based on photos of the damage 
and his description of what he thought might have happened. In summary, Ageas said it was 
very unlikely that the temperature and weather conditions would have caused the container 
to explode  and the paint splatters didnt match what would be expected if the container had 
been knocked off the cupboard it stood on. It said it wouldnt meet Mr Vs claim as he hadnt 
shown that the damage was accidental. I thought it reasonable for Ageas to rely on the 
report as it was comprehensive and persuasive.
Ageas also said it thought Mr V might have exaggerated his claim  which would be a 
reason for Ageas refusing to meet the claim. If Ageas had relied on this point to refuse the 
claim it would need to show evidence that this was the case. I havent seen anything that 
suggests Mr V was exaggerating the claim even if he hasnt been able to show the damage 
was accidental. However, this wasnt the reason why the claim was refused, and Ageas 
hasnt taken any additional steps available to it if it did show the claim was exaggerated. So I 
cant say this has had an effect on Mr Vs insurance. I didnt look at this further other than to 
say if Mr V was affected by this at some point in the future he would be able to make a fresh 
complaint to Ageas on this point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Ageas said it would accept it.
Mr V initially contacted us to say no-one visited him to look at the damage as Id said in my 
provisional decision. I should have said the report was produced based on the photos Mr V 
provided. Im sorry for any confusion, but I think there were enough clear photos to show the 
extent of the damage, and I dont think this undermines the content of the report.
Mr V says hes angry that his word hasnt been taken  and I do understand that. And I dont 
doubt he thinks this might have happened. But he says no-one was in the room when the 
damage occurred, so he cant be sure of how or why it happened. And unfortunately he 
hasnt been able to provide any additional evidence to support his suggestion that the paint 
container did explode  or was moved in some other way so it would fall and cause the 
damage shown in the photos.
Without additional evidence Im not persuaded to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman