DRN-3423020
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt refunded a payment of £49.99 
which she says she didnt make.   
What happened
Both parties are aware of the details of what has happened, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. In summary, Mrs M gave her debit card to her partner, Mr M, so that he could 
purchase a game on a games console. A few weeks later, an additional payment of £49.99 
was taken by the games console company (GC) which Mrs M says she didnt authorise. 
Our adjudicator said the payment was for a subscription service in Mr Ms name and was 
therefore a genuine transaction, so he did not uphold the complaint. Because Mrs M 
disagreed with this, the complaint was then passed to me.
I considered all the evidence available to me and came to a different outcome to that of the 
adjudicator. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows:
Firstly, Ive considered whether the payments themselves were authorised by Mrs M. 
Generally, the starting point is that BoS can hold Mrs M liable for the disputed transaction if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. This 
position is confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and 
conditions of her account.
In this case, the genuine card details were used to make the transaction, and so the 
payment was correctly authenticated. But this alone doesnt mean that Mrs M is liable. She 
also needs to have consented to the payment  either by making it herself or allowing 
someone else to act on her behalf. So, I need to consider whether BoS has acted fairly in 
concluding that she did. 
Mrs M has confirmed that she gave her authority for Mr M to use her debit card to make a 
one-off purchase on the game console for around £7 on 4 May. She has confirmed that she 
was unaware her card would be saved onto the console and that it was possible for it to be 
used for further purchases. She has confirmed the console is not hers and she has never 
saved a payment card onto it before. Looking at Mrs Ms statements, I cant see any 
payments made to GC prior to 4 May 2021. Mr M has also said he was unaware that the 
card had been saved onto the console and hes never saved a card to the console 
previously. This ties in with evidence Mr and Mrs M have submitted showing previous 
payments for Mr Ms subscription service was provided by a third-party company and paid 
for via Paypal. 
Ive considered Mrs Ms comments and I find them plausible. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs M was unaware her card details had been saved onto the console 
and could therefore be used to make further purchases on it. It therefore follows that I do not 
think Mrs M gave her authority for the card to be added to the console and used to make the 
purchase on 24 May 2021. Instead, I think its more likely she gave her authority for a one-off 
purchase to be made and then she took her card, and therefore authority, back. So, based 
on what Ive seen so far, I currently do not think BoS has acted fairly in holding Mrs M liable 
for the transaction of £49.99 made on the account. 
It should also be noted that following the dispute being raised with BoS and them contacting 
GC, Mr Ms subscription was then cancelled meaning he had to buy another one. So there 
has been no benefit from the unauthorised £49.99 that was charged.
Ive gone on to consider the relevant regulations related to this complaint including section 
77(4)(d) of the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs). This sets out that, except where a 
payer has acted fraudulently, they arent liable for unauthorised transactions where the 
payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance contract (other than an 
excepted contract). 
A distance contract is a transaction that is completed without the merchant or consumer 
being physically present. Here, the transaction was made via a games console. So, Im 
persuaded that Mrs Ms debit card was used in connection with a distance contract  and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that its an excepted contract. 
As Ive explained, section 77(4) establishes that Mrs M is only liable for unauthorised 
transactions in connection with a distance contract where shes acted fraudulently. Based on 
what Ive seen, theres no indication that Mrs M has acted fraudulently here. So, taking 
everything into account, my current thinking is that Im satisfied this was an unauthorised 
transaction, where Mrs Ms debit card was used in connection with a distance contract (that 
wasnt an excepted contract). 
It follows that shes not liable and Im intending to instruct BoS to put things right  by 
refunding Mrs M the £49.99 alongside simple interest at 8% per annum to compensate her 
for the time shes been out of pocket.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms comments about thinking GC has fraudulently created 
documents to hold them Mrs M liable for the transaction. Ive seen nothing to suggest this is 
the case and regardless, Ive focused on the actions of BoS and not GC.
BoS responded to my provisional accepting my findings in light of the points I had raised. 
Mrs M responded and accepted my outcome but felt that compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the issue had caused was warranted. She said that considering the stress, 
amount of telephone calls, cost of fuel and general time spent trying to fix the issue, she felt 
£500 compensation was acceptable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my findings in relation to the refund of the £49.99, I see no reason 
to deviate from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
I have considered Mrs Ms comments about compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused her. 
This is something that I had previously considered when reaching an outcome that I thought 
was fair. While I can understand that this has been stressful to deal with, I have to consider the impact alongside what Ive recommended to put the complaint right, the actual loss that 
Mrs M incurred and the actual error made by BoS. 
Mrs M reported the disputed payment on 24 May and BoS gave her a temporary credit of the 
funds the following day. I can see they contacted the merchant soon afterwards to find out 
more about the payment and were active in responding to them. They were then in regular 
contact with Mr and Mrs M to ask them questions about the payment. So, I dont think they 
caused unnecessary delays in the investigation of the disputed transaction. 
While I do agree that BoS came to the wrong outcome on this case and should not have 
held Mrs M liable for the transaction, I do think they reached this outcome in good time. And 
I note BoS paid Mrs M £24.20 on 1 July 2021 to cover any petrol and call costs she incurred 
when dealing with the claim, so they have covered the related costs that Mrs M incurred. 
This was paid into her BoS current account in two payments of £17 and £7.20. Ive also 
considered the fact that the amount in question is £49.99, which is a relatively low amount 
and wasnt higher than some regular transactions Mrs M was making at the time. 
Considering all if this, I think the refund of the £49.99, plus 8% simple interest and the 
£24.20 already paid to Mrs M is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Scotland plc to refund Mrs M the £49.99.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman