DRN-3455310
The complaint
Ms B complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
rejecting a claim under her pet insurance policy because of a pre-existing condition.
This decision covers, firstly, Ms Bs complaint to this service in January 2022 about Red 
Sands declining a claim (£5,248) for surgery to her dog. After her complaint, a second claim 
(£732) for an overdose of medication (which was related to the surgery) was also declined. 
Red Sands agreed both could be considered by this service as one complaint.
What happened
Ms B took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in December 2019. In October 2021 the dog 
had surgery for intervertebral disc extrusion (a condition affecting the spine). Ms B made a 
claim for the cost of treatment. In assessing the claim, Red Sands asked for the dogs 
medical history, which was provided. However, Red Sands declined the claim, saying it 
related to a pre-existing condition, so was excluded under the policy. Specifically, they 
referred to notes in the medical history, firstly about a hindleg tremor before the policy 
started and (immediately prior to the surgery) that disc disease was the most likely cause. 
Ms B challenged the decline, and the vet who performed the surgery gave their opinion the 
surgery wasnt related to a pre-existing condition. The vet said the hindleg tremble could 
have many causes, which may not have been neurological in origin. The vet also noted that, 
regarding the hindleg tremble before the policy started, no diagnostic tests were carried out 
(nor were any neurological defects noted at the time). Therefore, the two conditions could 
not be definitively linked (so the disc extrusion couldnt be said to be caused by a pre-
existing condition). As such, the surgery should be covered under the policy.
Given the view from her vet, Ms B complained to Red Sands, but they didnt uphold her 
complaint. In their final response they said they deemed the hindleg tremor to be the first 
clinical sign of the intervertebral disc extrusion and as such this meant the condition was pre-
existing. They also noted the dog subsequently presented with muscle trembling in its hind 
legs (and muscle weakness) and this also supported their conclusion the issue was pre-
existing. While they considered what Ms Bs vet said about the disc extrusion being due to 
inflammation/infection, they thought this less likely. Based on these considerations, they 
confirmed their decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy at Red Sands response, Ms B complained to this service. The main part of her 
complaint was that Red Sands had unfairly declined her claim. She maintained, based on 
her vets opinion, the surgery on her dogs disc wasnt related to a pre-existing condition. 
She asked for Red Sands to reimburse her for the cost of the surgery.
In respect of the decline of the second claim, Red Sands referred to an additional exclusion 
theyd added to the policy (after the decline of the first claim). That referred to cover for all 
claims with respect to anything to do with the hindleg muscle tremors that occurred before 
the policy started and resulting conditions (with effect from December 2019).
Our investigator upheld Ms Bs complaint, concluding Red Sands hadnt acted fairly. As 
theyd relied on exclusions for a pre-existing condition to decline the claims, she thought the 
onus was on Red Sands to show the exclusions applied. On the balance of probabilities, she 
concluded Red Sands hadnt shown the surgery was linked to a pre-existing condition, as the 
hindleg tremor didnt seem linked to the disc extrusion. She thought the views of Ms Bs vet 
indicated the dogs condition wasnt the result of a neurological issue, based on the medical 
history after the policy was taken out (but before the disc surgery). Regarding the second 
claim, the she thought the policy should cover the cost, as it didnt apply exclusions for 
conditions claimed for since the policy started (which would include the surgery). To put 
things right, she thought Red Sands should cover both claims (less any applicable policy 
excess or co-payment). Because of the distress and inconvenience suffered by Ms B, the 
investigator thought Red Sands should pay £150 in compensation. 
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, they maintained their view that the hindleg tremor 
noted in the medical history before the policy started was the first sign of the disc extrusion, 
so a pre-existing condition (and excluded from cover). They said the dog later presented with 
muscle trembling in the hind legs and diagnosis of disc extrusion (an age-related 
degenerative condition). They also referred to publicly available information on the condition 
indicating clinical signs can include hind limb weakness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands has acted fairly towards Ms B.
 
The main issue in Ms Bs complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying a policy 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions to decline, firstly, the claim for the surgery on the disc 
extrusion and, secondly, the subsequent claim for the medication overdose (the medication 
related to the surgery). Ms B says, based on the views of her vet, the surgery wasnt the 
result of a pre-existing condition. Red Sands say the hindleg trembling was linked to the disc 
surgery, referring to the medical history and to information on intervertebral disc disease 
indicating a symptom of the condition can include hind limb weakness (trembling).
Ive considered both views carefully. Where a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on 
them to show that an insured event applies. In this case, theres no doubt that Ms Bs dog 
had a condition that required surgery (and subsequent medication) for which she made 
claims. But where an insurer relies on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on them to 
show the exclusion applies - it isnt for the policyholder to show that it doesnt apply.
The wording of the exclusion applied by Red Sands is contained within Section 1: Vet Fees 
of the policy, under the heading What is not Covered?, which states:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, 
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement 
of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date. 
Red Sands maintain the hindleg trembling was linked to the disc surgery, referring to the 
medical history and to information on intervertebral disc disease indicating a symptom of the 
condition can include hind limb weakness (trembling). Having considered this view, 
alongside the medical history references theyve cited, Im not persuaded (given the onus is 
on them) theyve shown there was a pre-existing condition (the disc extrusion) for which the 
hind leg trembling was the first clinical sign. So, Ive concluded they didnt act fairly and 
reasonably in using the exclusion to decline the claim for surgery. Ill set out why Ive come 
to that conclusion.Red Sands refer to the medical history of the dog, specifically to a reference in May 2019 to 
Hindlimb stationary tremor (but not lame). The medical history doesnt mention the same 
issue again until February 2021 (muscle trembling in the back legs) and October 2021 
(Muscle weakness). There are issues recorded in August 2020 (though trembling isnt 
mentioned). Ive also noted reference in the report on the surgery in October 2021 from the 
vet diagnosing disc disease as the most likely cause (other, less likely, causes are 
inflammatory/infectious and neoplasia). The report also records the disc intrusion following 
an MRI scan. The report also records intermittent episodes over the previous year of 
suspected spinal pain. 
Taking these points together, on the balance of probabilities I think its likely (particularly 
given the degenerative nature of the disc extrusion issue) the condition had been present for 
some time before the surgery, perhaps a year given the reference from the vet report about 
the surgery (and the reference to muscle trembling in February 2021). However, Im not 
persuaded Red Sands have shown the condition was present as far back as May 2019 (the 
first reference to tremor), particularly given the absence of any clear further reference until 
February 2021. As the policy was taken out in December 2019, then Im also not persuaded 
the disc condition was present at that point. In coming to that conclusion, Ive also placed 
weight on the opinion of the vet that performed the surgery in October 2021.
Having concluded it was unfair for Red Sands to use the exclusion for pre-existing conditions 
to decline the claim for surgery, then Ive also concluded they acted unfairly in declining the 
second claim for treatment, given the medication concerned was (as I understand it) 
prescribed as a consequence of the earlier surgery. As Ive concluded Red Sands acted 
unfairly in applying the pre-existing conditions exclusion, then it follows they acted unfairly in 
adding the additional exclusion relating to all claims with respect to anything to do with the 
hindleg muscle tremors that occurred before the policy started and resulting conditions (with 
effect from December 2019).
 
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that Red Sands havent, on the balance of 
probabilities, done enough to show that they acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exclusions to decline both claims. Given this conclusion, to put things right I think Red Sands 
cant rely on the exclusions to decline the claims and should settle both claims in line with 
the remaining terms of the policy (less any applicable policy excess and co-payment, given 
the age of Ms Bs dog).
On the issue of compensation, considering all the circumstances of the case I think £150 for 
distress and inconvenience is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Settle both claims in line with the remaining terms of the policy (less any applicable 
policy excess and co-payment, given the age of Ms Bs dog).
Pay Ms B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Red Sands Insurance (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Ms B accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman