DRN-1913575
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by The Cooperative Bank Plc trading as Britannia (The 
Co-op).
What happened
In March 1999 Mr and Mrs I took out a joint mortgage with The Co-op. At the same time they 
took out a joint PPI policy to cover them both for a proportion of the benefits of the cover if 
either of them was unable to work due to unemployment, accident or sickness. 
Mr and Mrs I have complained that the PPI was mis-sold. The Co-op didnt agree the policy 
was mis-sold, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with that 
decision and brought their complaint to this service. They are represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what The Co-op had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs I remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Is case.
Mr and Mrs I have told us when they took out the mortgage and PPI, the PPI was never 
discussed. They say no details of the policy were given and they didnt know what PPI was. 
The cost was just added on top of their payments and they would never have agreed to the 
policy if they had been properly informed. They have also said neither of them was eligible 
for the policy and it was far too expensive.
The Co-op has been able to provide a copy of the application form that was completed for 
the mortgage and also the separate application form completed for the PPI. The PPI 
application form offered cover for one or both of joint borrowers and the benefit could be split 
in proportions, as required, if both borrowers wanted some cover. 
The form has been completed for both Mr and Mrs I to take out the cover, and the benefits 
were split on the basis of their incomes, so it was 78% of the cover benefit for Mr I and 22% 
for Mrs I. There is also additional information collected on the form for them each individually 
relating to their personal employment circumstances, current health etc.
Mr and Mrs I both signed this PPI application form. This signature section declared that the 
information they had given was true to the best of their knowledge and also confirmed that 
the terms and conditions of the PPI had been fully explained to them.Although Mr and Mrs I do not recall any discussion taking place about the PPI, this 
application was made over 20 years ago and their memories may have faded. Some 
discussion must have taken place in order for the personal data about them both to have 
been collected and in-filled on this separate application form. Also, they made decisions 
about who should be covered by the PPI and how the cover should be split. So again, some 
discussion about this must have taken place. 
I cannot know exactly what was said in that meeting, but I think the completion of this 
separate application form should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs I there was a choice 
whether to take out the PPI or not. And I think at the time they were told about it and chose 
to take it out.
I have considered if the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs I.  I note they say they were not 
eligible for the policy, but they both met the essential criteria to be eligible, being in 
employment and within the required age ranges. 
I cannot be sure exactly what was said at the time of the sale and if full details of the terms 
and conditions of the policy was discussed. But looking at Mr and Mrs Is circumstances 
when they took out the PPI, it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover. For example, neither of them has indicated they were suffering 
from any pre-existing medical conditions, so they would not have been caught by restrictions 
on claims relating to medical issues. 
So, I think they would both have been able to make claims on the policy and the PPI would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
I have noted their comments that if the business didnt provide clear information, it is unfair 
to assume this would not have affected their decision. But as it is unknown exactly what was 
said at the meeting, then some sort of assumptions must be made to reach a decision. 
If something wasnt mentioned that affected either Mr or Mrs I, then it would be fair to 
assume that if they had known about this, it is probable they would not have taken out the 
policy. But if nothing in the restrictions affected them, it is fair and reasonable to assume that 
information about things that didnt affect them, would have made no difference to their 
decisions.
I cannot know exactly what was said, and how much information was provided about the 
terms of the policy. But Mr and Mrs I were not affected by any of the restrictions. So I think it 
is fair to assume not being told about the restrictions in full, when those restrictions didn't 
affect them, would have made no difference to their decision whether to take out the policy.
Even though they both had employment benefits if they were off sick, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to this and would have enabled other income to pay for other household 
and living expenses at what could have been a difficult time. So, it would have been useful 
for Mr and Mrs I to have the cover. 
They would have been given information about the cost and benefits at the meeting. For the 
first 12 months they paid nothing for the unemployment cover, so the monthly payment was 
£9.12. This was taken by separate direct debit to their mortgage. It seems when the 
premium increased, to pay for the unemployment cover, the direct debit was cancelled and 
so the PPI was cancelled due to non-payment.
This would suggest that when the cost increased, Mr and Mrs I decided they no longer 
wanted the cover. Which would also indicate they knew the policy was optional and made 
decisions about the cost and benefits as it affected them. In summary, I have seen nothing to show the PPI with this mortgage, taken out in 1999, was 
mis-sold to Mr and Mrs I. I think at the time they did agree to take it out as they felt it would 
be of benefit to them should they need to claim. They were not caught by any restrictions in 
the terms and conditions, so further information would not have had any effect on their 
decision at the time to take out the policy, and at the time I think it was affordable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by The Cooperative 
Bank Plc trading as Britannia to Mr and Mrs I and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 9July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman