DRN-2813236
The complaint
 Mr B complains about his insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). Mr B is 
unhappy at the way Admiral handled a claim under his motor insurance policy for water 
damage to his vehicle.
References to Admiral also include their agents.
What happened
 Mr B was away in December 2020 and on his return his vehicle wouldnt start. The vehicle 
was found to be waterlogged, damaging the electrical and mechanical systems. Mr B had 
the car collected by a garage and contacted Admiral to lodge a claim. Admiral arranged for 
the vehicle to be collected so they could inspect it and assess the claim. Admiral made a 
settlement offer of £5,440 (less the policy excess) which Mr B accepted. Mr B changed the 
vehicle registration document to transfer the vehicle to Admirals salvage agent.
 
Admiral then told Mr B that they were cancelling payment of the settlement figure as their 
engineer said the cause of the damage was wear and tear which wasnt covered under Mr 
Bs policy. Mr B was unhappy at the change of position and complained to Admiral. Admiral 
appointed an engineer to inspect the vehicle and report on the cause of the damage. Admiral 
then contacted Mr B to say the engineers report supported their decision to decline the 
claim, as the cause of the damage was a failure to keep the vehicle in good order.
Mr B complained again to Admiral because he didnt think the engineers report supported 
Admirals decision. Admiral upheld Mr Bs complaint, saying that they hadnt investigated Mr 
Bs first complaint correctly. Admiral said that they had commissioned a further engineer 
report to determine the cause of the damage. Mr B was unhappy at this, as an assessment 
had already been carried out that didnt support Admirals decision. Admiral then contacted 
Mr B again to say that a second assessment had taken place, which did conclude that the 
cause of the damage was wear and tear and so not covered by Mr Bs policy.
Mr B then complained to this service. He was unhappy at initially being made a settlement 
offer that was withdrawn, and that he was offered the salvage value of the vehicle. Mr B 
asked for compensation for the delays in handling his claim and subsequent complaints, as 
well as his being misled about the initial engineers report findings. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. He concluded that while Admiral had reached the 
right decision to decline Mr Bs claim as the cause of the damage wasnt covered by his 
policy, they hadnt treated Mr B fairly. The investigator said that Admiral should put things 
right by offering Mr B £400 for the salvage value of his car (offered to Mr B by a scrappage 
company) plus £100 Mr B had to pay the company to remove the car and cancel the offer. 
The investigator also thought Admiral should pay £300 for time and inconvenience to Mr B 
and a further £300 for the way that they handled his claim.
Admiral disagreed with the investigators conclusion on paying the £400 salvage offer for the 
vehicle, as they said that the value of the vehicle under their contracted salvage rates was 
£108.80. But they agreed to offer £600 in compensation and the £100 paid by Mr B to the 
salvage company. Mr B was unwilling to accept this offer and requested that an ombudsman 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The first issue in this complaint is whether, having initially offered Mr B a settlement for the 
value of the car, Admiral acted fairly in then changing its position and declining his claim on 
the basis that the cause of the damage wasnt covered under the policy. From the case 
notes provided by Admiral, it seems that the settlement offer was made before any engineer 
assessment of Mr Bs vehicle was carried out. Admiral have said that when making the offer, 
it was conditional on a subsequent assessment to confirm that the cause of the damage was 
an insurable event under the policy. Mr B says that this wasnt made clear to him. 
Looking at the case notes, it seems that when Mr B contacted Admiral about making a claim, 
it was over a month after he had returned to find his vehicle wouldnt start. And that he had 
already contacted a scrappage company in respect of disposal of the vehicle. At that point 
Admiral took over the vehicle with a view to inspecting it and assessing the claim. The case 
notes record the settlement figure being raised but then cancelled and the engineer 
assessment process initiated. Theres a comment two days after the claim was made noting 
that the damage was caused by failure of seals, allowing water to enter the vehicle, and that 
this would be mechanical failure and not an insurable event. The need for a further 
inspection was noted, and this was advised to Mr B the following day.
Its also clear from both the case notes and the report itself that the initial engineer 
assessment didnt provide a clear conclusion as to the cause of the damage. It was only 
subsequently, during Admirals consideration of Mr Bs second complaint, that a separate, 
specialist engineer inspected the vehicle and identified the cause of the water getting into 
the vehicle (defective sunroof seals). Im persuaded that this was the cause of the damage, 
and that it wasnt an insured peril under the terms of Mr Bs policy. So Ive concluded that 
Admiral acted reasonably in declining Mr Bs claim.
However, the sequence of events to arrive at that conclusion took significantly longer than it 
should have done (over three and a half months from when Mr B initially made his claim). 
And it was only when Mr B saw the first engineer report that he noted that it didnt provide a 
clear conclusion on the cause of the damage and therefore didnt support rejection of his 
claim. I agree that in this respect, Admiral didnt act fairly towards Mr B.
Its also clear from what happened that Admiral took much longer than it should have done in 
handling both Mr Bs claim as well as his complaints. Admirals response to Mr Bs second 
complaint acknowledged that the first complaint wasnt handled correctly, and this is 
supported by the case notes. Its also clear that Mr B spent a considerable amount of time in 
contact with - or trying to contact - Admiral, and they acknowledge that this is very possible 
to have been the case. This may in part have been due to the impact of the covid pandemic 
and the consequent restrictions that were in place for at least part of the period.
Having concluded that Admiral didnt act fairly towards Mr B, Ive considered the question of 
what Admiral should do to put things right. Ive noted that our investigator suggested Admiral 
pay £300 for time and inconvenience caused to Mr B and a further £300 for the way that 
they handled his claim. Admiral have accepted these sums. Taking account of the 
circumstances I agree that these are fair and reasonable amounts.A further aspect of cost relates to the salvage value of Mr Bs vehicle. Ive noted that Mr B 
said that he had an offer for the salvage value of the vehicle before Admiral took over the 
vehicle when he lodged his claim. And that subsequently Mr B paid the salvage company 
£100 to cancel the offer. Our investigator thought that Admiral should pay Mr B this sum and 
I note Admiral have agreed. Again, I think thats fair and reasonable.
The aspect that isnt agreed is the salvage value of the vehicle. From the evidence Ive seen, 
the cost to repair the vehicle was going to be high enough to render it a total loss. It appears 
Mr B had already contacted a scrappage company, suggesting he was intending to dispose 
of his vehicle. Mr B was also provided evidence of the scrappage company offering £400 for 
his vehicle. While the vehicle was transferred to the salvage agent when Admiral took over 
the claim, had that not happened (and given that Admiral then declined the claim) then I 
think its reasonable that Mr B should receive a fair salvage sum for his vehicle.
Admiral have said  and offered to pay Mr B  what they describe as the value of the vehicle 
under their contracted salvage rates. However, given the evidence provided by Mr B of the 
offer he had received from the scrappage company, Im persuaded that this is what he 
otherwise would have received for the vehicle had he not lodged his claim with Admiral. So, 
to put Mr B in the position that he would have been, Ive concluded that Admiral should pay 
the figure offered to Mr B by the scrappage company (£400) rather than their own contracted 
salvage rates figure.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr B £300 for distress and inconvenience and £300 for how they handled his claim.
Pay Mr B £400 for the salvage offer made by the scrappage company for his vehicle, as 
well as the £100 fee for cancellation of the offer. 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the sums within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Mr B accepts my final decision (unless they have already made any payments 
to Mr B).  If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the costs from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman