DRN-3974517
The complaint
Mr O complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) have undervalued his car following a 
claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O insured his car with esure in September 2022. Following the theft of his car, esure 
accepted his claim and made a settlement offer to him. He was initially offered £80,257 as 
market value for his car and this was later increased to £82,465. Unhappy with this 
valuation, he raised a complaint. His key complaint points are:
- that esure failed to consider the specifications of his high value car which were rare to 
find and costly to replace (where this was possible),
- that the valuation esure provided was based on cars which were not of a similar 
specification and so were unreliable,
- that the baseline cost of the car bought new without the options was around £120,000 
whereas the cost with the extras was around £150,000 so they could not fairly value 
the cars at the same level,
- it was rare to find this car with the number and combinations of options it had so it 
would obtain a considerably higher price, 
- they had significantly undervalued his car which he believes should be around £90,000 
to £95,000. 
Mr O provided detailed information about the specifications of his car and said the cost of 
these rare optional extras was in excess of £30,000. 
After consideration esure decided to maintain their offer. They issued a final response letter 
in October 2022, explaining how the valuation was reached using the average of four 
commonly used valuation guides. They say the valuation fairly reflected the market value of 
the car which isnt necessarily the price that he paid for the car.
As they didnt uphold his complaint, Mr O brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered esures valuation but didnt think it had fairly taken into account 
the high specifications of the car. She obtained a bespoke valuation from one of the 
valuation guides to include the additional optional features, and they increased the valuation 
to £88,605. She upheld Mr Os complaint and asked esure to increase their valuation 
accordingly. 
esure agreed with the investigators outcome but Mr O said the valuation still didnt fully 
consider the extra specifications which he felt resulted in the valuation being slightly low. 
He gives an example of a car with £3,000 worth of options listed for £88,900 in October 
2022. As he didnt agree with the outcome, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
 As a service, we dont value cars, but check that the insurers valuation is fair and 
reasonable and that it is in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. The 
terms and conditions of Mr Os policy defines market value as the amount he could 
reasonably expect to sell his car for on the open market immediately before the loss. They 
base the value on cars of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage at the time of 
loss. This may not be the price that Mr O paid when he purchased the car, and the terms 
clearly state this.
To establish whether the valuation is fair and reasonable, we use valuation guides that are 
widely recognised to be persuasive as their valuations are based on nationwide research to 
show likely selling prices. They are updated regularly to consider new models and the used 
car market. 
I considered the valuations esure provided which formed the basis of their valuation  which 
provided a range of between £79,100 and £86,230. However, like the investigator, I wasnt 
satisfied the valuations did include all the optional extras that were on Mr Os car. So, Ive 
further considered the bespoke valuation the investigator obtained. 
The bespoke valuation from CAPs gave an increased valuation at £88,605. I note Mr Os 
concerns regarding this and have reviewed the information hes provided. I have considered 
in detail the list he provided this service and what has been used to obtain the bespoke 
valuation to ensure all the optional factory fitted extras and relevant details had been 
included. Having looked at this, I am satisfied that the optional extras were included in the 
instructions for the bespoke valuation and that the valuation was based on market value in 
August 2022 with accurate mileage.
I appreciate Mr O feels the value is still too low and should be in the region of £90,000 to 
£95,000, and he provided an Autotrader advert from January 2023 which shows a car of 
similar specifications to his own, listed at £88,900. The advert does not appear to have many 
of the optional extras that his car had, and this adds to his view that the optional extras 
would increase the value of his car. 
Whilst I can take into consideration adverts for similar cars on sale, I must also take into 
account factors such as higher/lower than average mileage of the car and the date of 
valuation prior to the incident, which have a significant impact on the value of it. Mr Os car 
has 38,263 mileage, whereas the average for a car at that time was around 24,000. In 
addition to this, retail list prices are generally considered to be higher than the price we 
expect a sale to be agreed at allowing some room for negotiations.
Im also not persuaded that all options added to the car increase its value for re-sale 
purposes or that the amount paid for these means there will be a comparable increase in the 
market value. However, as Ive mentioned above, I am satisfied that all relevant information 
and optional extras have been included to establish the updated valuation. It follows that I 
am satisfied the increased valuation to £88,605 is reasonable and fair market value for the 
car. 
Putting things right
To put things right, esure should pay Mr O any outstanding amounts up to the increased 
valuation of £88,605, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. esure also needs to add 8% simple interest to what they pay, calculated from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement.
If esure considers they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr O how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr O a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure 
Insurance Limited should pay Mr O as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman