DRN-3272790
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2014, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In December 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £7,550 to mislead Mr B, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £12,135.60;
Mr B was promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,213.56 but was not made aware 
that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit of £722.20;
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost Mr B a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said that it was inconsistent with the 
decision made by an ombudsman in another case  which it said had been decided on very 
similar evidence  in which the complaint had nevertheless been upheld. It argued that this 
meant that Mr Bs case should be upheld too.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The other decision referred to by the CMC
When I read the excerpt from the decision which had been provided to us by the CMC, 
I agreed that it did appear to have been decided on similar facts and evidence to Mr Bs 
case. While our decisions are not binding in the same way as court precedents are, 
nevertheless, I agree with the CMCs argument that our decisions and our approach to 
similar cases should be consistent. However, now that I have I read the full decision, I do not 
agree that the cases are similar after all. That other case was actually upheld based on a 
key difference between the facts of the two cases, and so I do not think that it assists Mr B.
This is what the other ombudsman wrote about why he upheld that other complaint:
The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,750 kWh a year and 
this in turn would generate the income Mrs W could expect to receive by way of FIT 
payments and savings in her energy bills.
Ive calculated that, on average, the system should generate 7.53 kWh of energy 
each day. Mrs W has provided her FIT statements which show that between March 
2014 and December 2020 the system generated 14,537.39 kWh which equates to 
5.94 kWh a day or 2,168.10 kWh a year. This is significantly less that the 
estimations provided at the point of sale.
Im satisfied that the estimated generation, and the related FIT payment and 
electricity savings, would have induced Mrs W into entering the contract. The actual 
generation and therefore income are significantly lower than she was promised so 
she has suffered a loss  Therefore, based on the information we have on file 
I think its more likely than not that the system is underperforming and this amounts 
to a mis-representation. So, I think this case should be upheld.
As I have explained below (under the heading Performance), I have decided that Mr Bs 
system was not underperforming. So I dont think these cases are similar. There is a very 
clear reason why the outcome is different in each case.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled System Performance and 
Returns. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Bs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr B makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £12,135.60. This sets out that the cash price of the system was £7,550, the 
total amount of credit is the same amount, the total charge for credit is £4,585.60, and it 
goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £12,135.60.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr B more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr B has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr B has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £590.16.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £262.52 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr B, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,166.52. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed PSP Scheme Repayment Options with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £101.12. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £101.13, but the difference  1p  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £101.12, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for the first year, which is highlighted in red.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 1p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments).
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The System Performance and Returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 6 the overall benefits that Mr B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the cash price of the system.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 6, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,008 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,920 kWh a year. This is only slightly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale  97% of the estimate (compared with 79% in Mrs Ws case)  so Im satisfied that the 
system is performing as expected.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr B to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
