DRN-2787849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have unfairly 
declined their claim for legal expenses insurance.
Great Lakes uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance on its behalf, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are complex and well known to both parties, so 
I will not repeat everything in detail here. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have been involved in a 
long running dispute with their neighbours concerning a boundary dispute and encroachment 
on to their land, which has resulted in numerous claims being made with other insurers, as 
well as several complaints being made to this service (which have been addressed in final 
decisions issued by other ombudsmen).
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about Great Lakes concerns a professional negligence claim they 
wanted to pursue against its panel solicitors (DAS Law) for an allegedly negligent legal 
assessment issued in October 2016 on the prospects of success of Mr and Mrs Ms 
nuisance/trespass claim against their neighbours. They claim that they have suffered a loss 
as a result of the solicitors negligence.
Great Lakes originally said there was no agreement or contract in place between Mr and 
Mrs M and DAS Law for the provision of a legal assessment of their claim, and also said it 
would be excluded in any event as a result of a policy term that excludes claims relating to 
the settlement payable under an insurance policy. 
A complaint was originally referred to our service in September 2018 about Great Lakes 
refusal to cover the claim. The ombudsman considering the complaint was not persuaded 
that the insurance settlement exclusion applied, and he said that Great Lakes should 
instruct its solicitors to consider the documentation submitted by Mr and Mrs M for a legal 
opinion on whether there was a contact in place between them and the solicitors. 
Great Lakes agreed to reconsider the claim. They did not refer the contract issue to their 
panel solicitors, however, and continued to decline the claim on the basis that there was no 
evidence of an agreement between Mr and Mrs M and DAS Law. 
Mr and Mrs M made a further complaint and another final response was issued, so the 
matter was referred back to our service. Great Lakes subsequently agreed that there was in 
fact a contract between Mr and Mrs M and DAS Law. However, the insurer said that the 
claim still wouldnt be covered because they hadnt seen evidence of any financial losses 
above £100 (as required by the policy) that could be attributed to the alleged negligence of 
DAS Law. 
Mr and Mrs M presented a list of what they considered their losses to be, but Great Lakes 
didnt accept these as valid.   
Our investigator recommended that Great Lakes pay £100 compensation for its handling of 
the claim following the first complaint that was referred to our service, as it continued to 
decline the claim on the same basis despite what had been set out by the previous 
ombudsman. However, the investigator did not think there was enough basis or evidence to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs M had sustained any real financial loss that could be attributed to 
DAS Laws negligence, so she didnt think Great Lakes had to take any further action in 
respect of the claim. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that it is now accepted by both parties that Mr and Mrs M had an agreement in place 
with DAS Law, it is no longer necessary to consider this point any further within my decision. 
The issue that remains to be determined, however, is whether Mr and Mrs M have sustained 
a loss in line with the requirements of the policy terms and conditions.
The policy terms and conditions state that Great Lakes will cover:
Legal costs incurred in bringing a claim or beginning civil proceedings against a third 
party or organisation for:
. the provision of services for your private or personal use
However, the policy terms and conditions also set out that the insurer will not cover any 
claims where:
the amount in dispute is less than £100.
Mr and Mrs M submit that they have suffered the following losses as a result of DAS Laws 
negligent prospects assessment of their claim:
Loss of £50,000 indemnity on their trespass/nuisance claim, as Great Lakes refused 
funding as a result of the legal opinion provided by the solicitors; 
Legal costs incurred in December 2016 to serve a boundary report on their 
neighbours; 
Surveyors fees (for reporting on the trespass) as shown in an invoice dated 
2 August 2017; 
Mileage for driving to the police station to collect a warning letter from the police;
Unspecified damages for emotional distress, which has resulted in stress related 
conditions in Mrs M.
Loss of indemnity limit
Mr and Mrs M say they have lost their £50,000 indemnity limit from Great Lakes for the 
trespass/nuisance claim against their neighbours. However, Mr and Mrs M have since had 
their £50,000 indemnity reinstated for this legal action from a claim theyve made with 
another insurer (the third-party insurer), following a final decision issued by another 
ombudsman on a separate complaint. So, they havent lost their indemnity, as the claim has been covered for the same amount on another policy. Great Lakes policy terms and 
conditions also set out the following clause in relation to claims that are covered by other 
insurance policies:
General exclusions applicable to the Legal Expenses section:

If at the time a claim is made by the [sic] you under this policy there is any other 
insurance covering the same liability, the insurer will not be liable to pay or contribute 
more than our proportion of any claim and the legal costs in connection with this.
This is a common term found in most types of insurance policy in my experience, which 
ultimately prevents the policyholder from benefiting from double recovery for the same loss. 
So, Mr and Mrs M would never have been able to obtain two separate limits of indemnity 
from two separate insurers for the same claim. The most they could ever claim for in relation 
to the same trespass/nuisance claim was £50,000, which has been covered by the third-
party insurer. So Im not persuaded that a loss of indemnity from the Great Lakes policy for 
the same claim can be considered as real loss attributable to the solicitors alleged 
negligence in these circumstances.  
Invoices
Mr and Mrs M submit that they have suffered a loss of around £750 in having to pay invoices 
for their solicitor and surveyor for services relating to their legal claim against their 
neighbours. I appreciate that they may have instructed these services privately. But they are 
inextricably linked to the trespass/nuisance claim that is being covered by the third-party 
insurer, who I note have agreed to consider reimbursing these costs from the remaining 
indemnity upon submission of reasonable evidence of them being incurred. Therefore, these 
losses have not actually crystalised at this juncture because, if they are reimbursed by the 
third-party insurer, then I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to expect Great 
Lakes to fund legal action to recover the same costs again from the solicitors, as this again 
would result in double recovery and betterment. 
Great Lakes have also said that, if it transpires that the indemnity limit with the third-party 
insurer has been exhausted, such that the invoices cannot be reimbursed, then it will 
reconsider its position in treating these costs as a loss caused by DAS Laws alleged 
negligence. I think this is a reasonable position for the insurer to take, given that no actual 
loss can be said to have yet crystalised.
Mileage
Mr and Mrs M say they had to drive to their local police station to collect a warning letter 
from the police relating to their neighbour. I do not see how this can feasibly be linked to the 
solicitors alleged negligence, however, as it seems this was largely a result of the 
deterioration of Mr and Mrs Ms relationship with their neighbour and wouldve likely occurred 
with or without any negligence on DAS Laws part. In any event, even if it could be attributed 
to the solicitors act or omission, Ive seen nothing to suggest that such costs would be in 
excess of £100, or that it would be proportionate to commence legal action to recover it. So, 
I do not think Great Lakes has acted unreasonably by failing to recognise this as a valid loss 
either.
Damages for pain and suffering
Mr and Mrs M further submit that they are claiming for an unspecified amount in damages for the emotional distress inflicted upon them, which has resulted in a stress related condition 
manifesting in Mrs M. Im sorry to hear that Mrs M has been suffering with stress and poor 
health. But Ive seen no independent medical evidence to suggest that this was as a result of 
DAS Laws alleged negligence. She has submitted a letter from a doctor, which says that 
that Mrs M mentioned she was stressed due to family issues and the dispute with the 
neighbour. But there is nothing to link her pain and suffering to the solicitors prospects 
assessment. So I do not consider Great Lakes has acted unfairly by refusing to acknowledge 
this as a loss either.
Potential losses
Mr and Mr M say that Great Lakes should instruct a solicitor to provide a legal opinion on 
whether there are any other losses that can be linked to DAS Laws negligence. However, it 
is for Mr and Mrs M as the policyholders to prove that they have a valid claim before Great 
Lakes are obliged to take any further action (such as incurring costs by instructing solicitors 
to determine whether the claim has prospects and is proportionate to pursue). 
I would not expect the insurer to have to incur costs before Mr and Mrs M have shown that 
they have actually sustained a loss. And, given that there are no real or crystalised losses 
over £100 that can feasibly be attributed to the solicitors negligence as their proximate 
cause, I do not think they have been able to show that they have a valid claim that meets the 
remaining requirements of the policy. 
However, Mr and Mrs M may wish to instruct their own solicitor to determine if there are any 
losses that can be linked to DAS Laws alleged negligence. But given that the burden of 
proving the claim falls on them, this would need to be at their own expense. 
Should any losses eventually crystallise in the future, then Great Lakes would be expected 
to consider these further. But again, it will be for Mr and Mrs M to demonstrate with 
reasonable evidence that such losses have been caused by DAS Laws alleged negligence 
(and what that negligence consists of) before the insurer would be expected to instruct a 
solicitor to assess the claim any further.
Compensation
Finally, I do acknowledge that Great Lakes handling of Mr and Mrs Ms claim could have 
been better. For example, it continued to decline the claim based on the insurance 
settlement exclusion (despite the findings made by previous ombudsman) and also 
continued to deny that there was a contract in place between Mr and Mrs M and the 
solicitors, despite having the information available to determine that there was such a 
contract (as has since been conceded). 
I appreciate that this would have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M, so I do consider that an 
award for distress and inconvenience is warranted. Our investigator awarded £100, which 
Great Lakes have agreed to pay. And, having considered all the evidence, I also consider 
this to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
So, I will therefore be directing Great Lakes to pay this amount to Mr and Mrs M. However, 
for the reasons given above, I will not be asking it to take any further action with regards to 
their legal expenses claim, as I consider that the insurer has declined it fairly on the basis of 
there currently being no amount in dispute over £100. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman