The complaint
This complaint is about two secured personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies taken out in 1995 and 1997. Mrs C says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
Mrs C took out two secured personal loans in 1995 and again in 1997. At the same time PPI 
was added to each. Mrs C says she remembers things happened by phone - but Nationwide 
doesn't know how the sales took place. 
Each policy provided protection for Mrs C's loan payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policies would pay out for up to 
12 months per claim for unemployment and up to 24 months per claim for accident and 
sickness. They cost around £13 and £19 a month respectively.
At the time of the sales Mrs C was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of 
six months' full followed by six months' half-pay. She told Nationwide she didn't have any 
savings she couldve used to make her repayments - but said she could've relied on her 
partner for help. She told us she had savings and money from an endowment policy, which 
matured shortly after she'd taken out her mortgage. She said she was in good health at the 
time.
Nationwide's records show the second loan account ended in 2000 (it's assumed the first 
loan ended when Mrs C took out the second loan.)
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there was 
limited evidence from the time of the sale. But they thought it likely Mrs C chose to take out 
the cover on both occasions.  And there was nothing to indicate PPI was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs C disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs C's complaint.
DRN-1862658Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mrs C's was hoping for, Ive decided not 
to uphold her complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mrs C have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
Mrs C says she wasn't aware she had PPI. She says the paperwork at the time didn't show 
separate figures for the loan and PPI - the payment was all-in-one. I've therefore considered 
this carefully.
I've already said that Nationwide can't say how Mrs C took out the loans and PPI - 
it doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sales. And this isn't surprising given how 
long-ago things happened  businesses aren't obliged to keep records indefinitely and its 
been almost 20 years since the second loan account ended.
But Nationwide has provided an example of the loan agreement it says Mrs C would've seen 
when she took out her loans. And looking at these I can see despite what Mrs C says, the 
loan and the PPI monthly costs were set out separately - the PPI was also described here as 
'optional'. Nationwide says PPI would've only appeared here if a customer chose to take it 
out at the application stage.
Taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that something 
very different happened in Mrs C's case, I dont think I can fairly say that Nationwide more 
likely than not misrepresented the policies as not being optional or that Mrs C didn't agree to 
take them out - although I can understand why she cant remember this.
the information 
Nationwide says it didn't advise Mrs C or recommend the cover to her. And from what we 
know about how sales like this were carried out - and because I've not seen anything which 
persuades me otherwise - I don't think Nationwide recommended the cover on either 
occasion. 
This means Nationwide didn't have to ensure the policies were right or suitable for Mrs C. 
But Nationwide did have to give Mrs C enough clear and timely information about it, so she 
could make that decision for herself.
Given the limited available evidence for both sales, I accept its possible the information 
Nationwide gave Mrs C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found 
above, I think she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And based on her circumstances each time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for her 
- for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions 
on or limits to the cover, such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances; and despite her existing means it still seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs C off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs C has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Nationwide 
doesn't have to pay back to Mr C what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - including the points she made in response to 
the adjudicator's assessment. But these points dont change my decision. 
 Mrs C says she had some savings, including funds from an endowment policy, which 
matured shortly after taking out her mortgage. I think Mrs C's mortgage was taken out after 
the loans in question, so these weren't available when Mrs C took out the loans. And while 
Mrs C might have had savings each time - I'm mindful she told Nationwide she didn't have 
any - the policy would've paid out regardless of any existing means (sick pay and/or 
savings) allowing these to be retained for future use or used to help meet other ongoing 
household expenditure.
Ultimately Mrs C was taking on extra debt secured against her home, so I think she would've 
found the policies useful had the insured risks become a reality.
With regard to the point Mrs C's made about her redundancy in 1998, including why 
Nationwide didn't inform her that PPI was on the loan and that a claim could be made. I've 
already said I think Mrs C chose to take out the policy - so I think she was aware of its 
existence even if she's now forgotten about it. And to the specific point about making a claim 
for her redundancy - from what I've understood, it appears Mrs C chose to take voluntary 
redundancy in 1998. If so, this wouldn't have been covered by the policy - only claims for 
involuntary redundancy.
But if I've understood things incorrectly, then as the adjudicator said, Mrs C can explore with 
Nationwide the possibility of making a retrospective claim - albeit I cannot comment on the 
chances of success of such a claim.
I can see Mrs C has indicated she was at risk until 2005 of suffering from an inherited 
disease. It's not clear from what she's said whether she understood this at the time of 
each sale. But in any event, from how the existing medical condition policy limitation was 
worded, I don't think Mrs C would've been caught by it - it was only conditions / diseases she 
knew of or reasonably knew about at the start date and which occurred again within 12 
months of the start date. So, as I said above, I don't think clearer information about the cover 
would've put Mrs C off taking it out.
Once again, I know Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons I've set 
out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman