DRN-3487302
The complaint
Mr M complained he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland).
What happened
Mr M took out the PPI in October 1996 when he applied for a credit card. Bank of Scotland 
said it couldnt confirm how the PPI was sold, but had considered the complaint on the basis 
that the sale took place in a branch of the bank and that Mr M was advised to take the cover. 
Mr M said he wasnt advised to take it. He complained that the PPI was added to the card 
without his knowledge and consent. 
The policy cost 71p per £100.00 owed. If Mr M had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when he stopped work. This wouldve carried on until the balance was repaid or 
Mr M returned to work. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that Bank of Scotland mis-
sold the policy, and therefore didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked that it 
be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland sent in a copy of Mr Ms credit card agreement. The document shows a 
tick in a box to say that Mr M wanted PPI  and theres another equally prominent box that 
couldve been ticked to confirm he didnt want it. 
Mr M is adamant that he didnt tick the box to agree to PPI. Ive thought about everything he 
told us about that. However, its not clear whether Mr M or the adviser completed the form  
although if the latter I think it reasonable to think that Mr M wouldve looked over he form 
before he signed it. I also have copies of Mr Ms first credit card statement and one from 
December 2000, and I can see that the PPI is listed separately as credit care insurance and 
credit card repayments insurance respectively, I think if Mr M had not agreed to the PPI, he 
would not have expected to see it on his credit card statement, but theres no evidence to 
suggest he queried it at the time. 
As neither Mr M nor Bank of Scotland has been able to tell us much about what happened 
when Mr M applied for his credit card, Ive also taken into account what we know about other 
Bank of Scotland PPI sales alongside credit cards at around the same time. But I havent 
seen particular problems with PPI being added without consent in other, similar Bank of 
Scotland sales.
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about this, but looking at all of the evidence, I cant fairly 
say that its more likely than not that the PPI was added without Mr Ms knowledge and 
consent, which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold his complaint on this point. I 
simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened.
As I mentioned, Bank of Scotland and Mr M disagreed about whether the policy was 
recommended for him. Ive considered this complaint on the basis that Bank of Scotland 
advised Mr M to take out the policy  which holds it to a higher standard in that it shouldve 
made sure it was suitable for him. I think it was.
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy. But I cant see that Mr M wouldve been affected by any of 
these. 
Mr M said he wouldve been entitled to sick pay of six months full pay and six months half 
pay from his employer, as well as redundancy pay. He also said he had savings, although 
the amount he mentioned was minimal relative to his salary. Taking all this into account I 
think Mr M couldve found it difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once his sick 
pay reduced or if he lost his job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out until 
the balance was repaid or Mr M returned to work  potentially longer than his employee 
benefits wouldve lasted. So on balance I dont think there was anything wrong with Bank of 
Scotland recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that Bank of Scotland mightve given Mr M. As Ive said, 
I cant know how the adviser explained the policy, or what information might have been 
provided at the meeting. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits may not 
have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, from the evidence I have, I dont think more detailed information about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed Mr Ms decision to take the policy. It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed been unable to work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman