DRN-3043505
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt provided him with loan records from 1989  1995. 
What happened
Mr D made a PPI mis-sale complaint in 2017. In response, Lloyds upheld his complaint and 
paid redress of over £1,500. Lloyds explained it only had limited records and so some 
assumptions had been made. During this, Mr D had been incorrectly told that the loan had 
started in 1989. As he was sure a loan in 1989 had been refinanced, Mr D requested that 
further compensation be paid for any further PPI.
It was explained that Mr D had been given the wrong information and the loan had in fact 
started in 1995. But Mr D didnt accept that and wanted a copy of Lloyds records around his 
loan holdings. Lloyds explained it didnt have any records of any loans prior to that in 1995, 
and it didnt hold any bank statements from prior to 2000. But Lloyds did agree it hadnt 
handled the matter well and offered Mr D £150 compensation. Mr D rejected that offer and 
asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it. She explained that businesses werent required to keep 
customer information for longer than necessary and that the only information available 
suggested a loan start date in 1995 finishing in 1996. As Mr D had previously asked for this 
from Lloyds to no avail, we provided an extract of the screen record showing that. Mr D 
highlighted that the start date was shown as 1997 with a statement audit date of 1995 and a 
closure date of 1996. So he wanted more information about that and an explanation  he 
argued that a statement audit date of 1995 suggested the loan had been in existence prior to 
that date. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view and Mr D asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
It was referred to me and I asked for a further explanation from Lloyds about the information 
in the screenshot. Unfortunately, despite numerous attempts, no further information has 
been forthcoming. Lloyds explained it has provided all it can, and any staff that knew more 
information about this particular screen shot no longer work for it. As it doesnt appear any 
further efforts will elicit a different response, its now appropriate to complete this final stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background, evidence and arguments made, I would 
like to reassure both Mr D and Lloyds that I have considered what has been provided. My 
role is not to respond to every point made, or comment on every piece of evidence. Rather 
my role is to fairly decide this complaint, and in doing so, I will focus on the crux of this 
matter - has Lloyds responded fairly to Mr Ds requests or should it do more. 
The investigator is right, under existing and prior data protection legislation, a business 
shouldnt keep customer data for longer than necessary.  Mr Ds complaint concerns a loan 
he believes was taken out in 1989 and later consolidated into another loan around 1991. So 
this concerns loans that were taken out some 30 years ago. Whilst I accept Mr D feels 
strongly that Lloyds should have information, Im not surprised it doesnt.  The lack of 
information so long after the event is typical where information requests are made many 
years later and is in keeping with a business data retention obligations.  
Lloyds has provided evidence of the searches it has carried out to try and locate anything 
further. Im satisfied those searches have been reasonable and they havent shown the 
existence of further loans. In the absence of any persuasive evidence of those loans, and Mr 
Ds testimony isnt persuasive on its own, I dont find there is anything further it should do in 
relation to this. 
A screen shot has been provided that shows a loan was in existence between 1995 and 
1996 and it was this loan that Lloyds paid PPI compensation in relation to.  However, the 
screen shot itself is rather confusing, not least because a start date is recorded as 1997, but 
also has a closure date of 1996. So at the very least the start date isnt correct. And matters 
werent helped when Lloyds incorrectly told Mr D that this loan had started in 1989, which in 
fact turned out to be a date input as a result of a system migration. I fully understand how 
frustrating it has been for Mr D not to have seen this screen shot until we became involved. 
Furthermore, Lloyds has been unable to shed any light on where the information set out has 
come from; there isnt any explanation as to how it knows the start date was 1995 when that 
is recorded as a statement audit date. We have tried to gain more detail from Lloyds about 
that to no avail. In the absence of any other information, I accept this is the only evidence 
and explanation we have to rely on. Mr D can contact the Information Commissioners Office 
if he wishes to purse this particular point further. 
Whilst I accept it is possible the loan may have started at a different time, this is the only 
information either party has in relation to it. And so this is the best information available. In 
order to uphold a complaint, I would need to be persuaded the business had done 
something wrong. But without evidence this loan started before 1995, or any documentary 
evidence that any other loans existed before this (that also had PPI), I dont find Lloyds 
needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
I appreciate this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr D, not least because of 
how long it has taken to get to this point. Lloyds did offer Mr D £150 for the way this matter 
had been handled. I understand Mr D rejected that offer. I havent upheld this complaint; Mr 
D will need to contact Lloyds about the offer if he now changes his mind  but as he rejected 
it, it may no longer be open for acceptance.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before 8 February 2022. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman