DRN-3034545
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) didnt carry out adequate 
checks to ensure that, when he transferred his pension pot from Phoenix to an unregulated 
scheme, the transfer was suitable. Mr S also says that Phoenix should not have allowed the 
transfer to go ahead.
Mr S is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
In late 2011 and early 2012, Mr S asked Phoenix to provide a transfer value for the pension 
pot he held with it to two different businesses. I understand that one of the businesses was 
an appointed representative of a business authorised by the industry regulator at that time, 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA). This business is no longer authorised.
In January 2012 Phoenix sent Mr S, and the appointed representative he had given it 
permission to provide information to, a transfer value quote. In the information it sent to Mr S 
it said, under the heading Advice:
Deciding what to do about your pension is a very important decision and we recommend that 
you speak to your financial adviser directly. If you do not have a financial adviser, the 
Important Information sheet enclosed with this letter contains details of how you can find 
one.
It also set out under the heading, Important information:
People have all sorts of reasons for wanting to transfer their plan. Transferring may not 
always be the best option for you. We recommend that you speak to your financial adviser 
directly. If you do not have a financial adviser please contact our Customer Care Team.
In early March 2012, Mr S again asked Phoenix to provide a transfer quotation. The 
information included with the quotation again set out that Mr S should speak to a financial 
adviser before deciding whether to go ahead with a transfer.
In July 2012, Mr S asked Phoenix for another transfer quotation. Phoenix provided an up-to-
date transfer quote and again encouraged Mr S to seek financial advice before transferring 
his pension pot. 
At around the same time Phoenix received a transfer request from the scheme 
administrators for Dewshill Pension Scheme. The scheme administrator provided evidence 
to show that the scheme had been registered with HMRC in 2011 and it said Mr S had joined 
the pension scheme in June 2012.
In July 2012 Mr S transferred the pension pot he held with Phoenix of around, £59,500 to the 
Dewshill Pension Scheme.
Our investigator spoke to Mr S about the transfer. Mr S said he didnt recall the businesses 
involved. He said he thought he had been contacted by the scheme itself and was told he 
could release a lump sum, or take out a loan. Mr S confirmed that he had received a 
£29,000 lump sum, and said he thought the remaining funds were going to be invested in a 
SIPP. 
There is nothing to show that Phoenix was aware that Mr S intended to take a loan or lump 
sum from the pension pot when he transferred it.
In 2019 Mr Ss representative complained to Phoenix. It said, in summary that if Phoenix had 
acted with   due skill, care and attention, the transfer to Dewshill Pension Scheme would 
not have been allowed.
Phoenix did not uphold the complaint and Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to this 
service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. Having considered matters he 
said he didnt think Phoenix had acted incorrectly when it allowed the transfer to go ahead. 
He said he was of the view that at the time of the transfer, in mid-2012, Phoenix had taken 
reasonable steps to encourage Mr S to seek advice and there was nothing that could 
reasonably have led it to suspect that the scheme was a scam or a fraud. He also noted that 
at the time the transfer went ahead there was a lack of clear and substantive guidance for 
providers to follow when acting on transfer instructions.
Mr Ss representative did not accept our investigators view. It said it felt that given the 
recent establishment of the scheme, combined with the fact the scheme held no regulation 
and there was no regulated financial advice provided [or] sought at the time, there was 
reasonable suspicion that the transfer was high risk and not in our clients best interests. 
There should have been sufficient reason to believe that our client should have been 
properly warned of the exposure that would occur to his pension funds should the transfer 
continue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Phoenix acted incorrectly in this matter. Ill explain why.
rules and guidance in place at the time of the transfer
At the time Mr S requested the transfer of his pension no specific guidance had been issued 
by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) on how businesses should deal with transfer requests. 
However, there was a growing awareness in the financial services industry of pension scams 
and fraud and there is evidence that the Financial Services Authority (FSA, now the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were 
becoming increasingly concerned about the dangers of, so called, pension liberation 
schemes.
In particular, on 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the 
dangers of pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invested money overseas (often in property) to avoid paying UK tax and/or 
result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the fees charged 
and the potential for investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was working 
closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged affected 
consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
In December 2011 TPR announced that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and had 
closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning and factsheet, about pension liberation. The 
FSA was involved in the campaign to raise public awareness about pension liberation. But 
no new requirements were introduced for transferring schemes to follow. The warnings 
highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold callers that encouraged consumers 
to transfer their pension pots in order to receive cash or access a loan.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Principles for Businesses
The pension Mr S transferred was a personal pension. There werent any specific FSA/FCA 
rules on the checks transferring providers needed to make before transferring from a 
personal pension, but the FSA (now FCA) Handbook set out the Principles and Rules that a 
business must adhere to. Businesses are required to apply the Principles, even when 
specific rules and guidance from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  
as was the case with pension liberation/scams/fraud.
The FSA Handbook set out 11 Principles. In particular, Mr Ss representative has referred to:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Did Phoenix follow these Principles?
As I have already noted, there was some knowledge of pension liberation and scams when 
Mr S requested the transfer of his pension, so I think it is reasonable to say that Phoenix, as 
a regulated business, would have known of the emerging issues and would have been 
aware of TPR announcements. 
In the absence of any specific rules or guidance in this area, Phoenix was required to act in 
line with the FSAs Principles when handling pension transfer requests at that time.
When Mr S transferred his pension, providers would typically check that the receiving 
scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that 
the transfer was, in some way, suspicious. Phoenix checked that the Dewshill Pension 
scheme was registered with HMRC and it has provided this service with a copy of the 
letter/HMRC certificate confirming this. This document also shows the Dewshill scheme was 
registered in September 2011. 
I am mindful that providers are now alert to transfers into schemes that have recently been 
registered, but at the time Mr S transferred his pension in 2012 this wasnt a widespread 
concern. I have reached this view as although the FSA and TPR were becoming increasingly 
concerned about liberation schemes in 2012, their response was primarily aimed at closing 
liberation schemes and raising consumer awareness about cold calls, accessing pension 
funds early, overseas investments and scams. Important though this activity was, it didnt 
flag that transferring to a recently registered scheme was something transferring schemes 
needed to be mindful of when dealing with a transfer request. I have also carefully considered the information Phoenix sent Mr S from January 2012 when 
he first contacted it about the possibility of transferring his pension pot. As I set out above, 
from the first time Phoenix wrote to Mr S about his request for a transfer quotation it 
encouraged him to seek financial advice about what to do. It also provided details of its 
customer care team if he had any queries. 
It reiterated that Mr S should seek financial advice before deciding whether to transfer his 
pension pot when it wrote to him in March 2012 and again in July 2012. And it encouraged 
Mr S to consider very carefully whether this is the right choice. 
Taking all of this into account as well as the time the transfer request was made, I think 
Phoenix provided Mr S with sufficient opportunities to check whether he was happy with the 
risks involved in the transfer. 
I accept that Phoenix did not make any reference to potential fraud. But, as the transfer was 
carried out before regulators issued any specific guidance to transferring schemes on this, I 
dont think this was a failing on Phoenixs part.
Likewise, I note that Mr S told our investigator that he took a £29,000 lump sum (or possibly 
a loan) from his pension. But there is nothing to suggest that he told Phoenix in 2012 that he 
wanted to go ahead with the transfer in order to access a lump sum or liberate his pension 
in some way. As this is the case, I cant reasonably say that it could have been aware that 
Mr Ss transfer request was likely to be high risk or not in Mr Ss best interests as his 
representative has suggested.
The FSA Principles for Businesses
I am mindful that Mr Ss representative has said Phoenix didnt adhere to the FSA Principles 
and regulatory requirements when it processed Mr Ss transfer. But I dont think the 
Principles can be interpreted to mean that Phoenix should have investigated the transfer to 
the level of detail that Mr Ss representative has said should have been carried out. Nor was 
there any requirement for Phoenix to ensure that it was satisfied that the Client had 
received appropriate independent financial advice before you accepted and executed the 
transfer request, as Mr Ss representative has claimed.
In reaching this view I have taken into account that when the regulators first introduced 
guidance in this area  the scorpion guidance they didnt require providers to conduct the 
detailed enquiries on every transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to have expected Phoenix to be suspicious of all transfers 
when the regulators, after considering the issue carefully, didnt think this was necessary.
Furthermore, whether I can reasonably say these rules should have led Phoenix to carry out 
an investigation into Mr Ss transfer, to protect him from possible liberation, largely depends 
on how likely it was viewed at the time that any particular transfer was at risk of this activity. I 
say this because there was always the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up in 
indiscriminate enquiries. And as I have already noted, at this stage, the regulators and 
HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to find out more about the 
problem.
So, on balance, I dont think its reasonable to give the FSA Principles and Rules the context 
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Mr S had 
transferred his pension pot. TPR did later come to the view that regulators and other 
agencies couldnt tackle the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was 
necessary. But this wasnt the position at the time of Mr Ss transfer. Having carefully considered this aspect of Mr Ss complaint, I think Phoenix met the 
requirements of the FSAs Principles when it handled Mr Ss transfer request. I am satisfied 
it provided Mr S with the information he needed and made it clear that transferring was an 
important decision and he should obtain advice. And I am satisfied the information was clear 
and easy to understand. However, there was no requirement on Phoenix to insist that Mr S 
took advice before allowing the transfer to go ahead.
I dont think Phoenix acted unfairly or unreasonably on this occasion by proceeding with the 
transfer in the absence of any obvious signs of liberation in Mr Ss request, or from industry 
intelligence it had received.
Although I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position, at the time of his pension transfer the issues 
that have subsequently come to light werent considered enough of a cause for concern for 
providers across the board. This was a rapidly emerging issue. So individual providers, who 
would only have seen a small proportion of all activity in this area, wouldnt necessarily have 
had a comprehensive enough view of pension liberation schemes to have appreciated what 
the potential risk factors were before the scorpion guidance  which did begin to catalogue 
these risk factors  was issued. 
Of course, some providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of 
the scorpion guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in 
transfer requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes 
me think Phoenix had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness in Mr Ss case.
Having carefully considered this complaint I am satisfied that Phoenix acted in line with the 
requirements in place at the time Mr S requested the transfer of his pension. As this is the 
case, I cannot reasonably find that Phoenix acted incorrectly in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman