DRN-2734415
The complaint
Miss Y says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home credit loans Morses provided to Miss Y between July 2017 
and November 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 18/07/2017 £400 33 06/04/2018
2 01/12/2017 £400 33 20/07/2018
3 20/07/2018 £400 33 22/03/2019
4 21/12/2018 £300 52 22/11/2019
5 22/11/2019 £500 53 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Morses shouldnt have 
approved loans 4 and 5. This was because she thought the lending pattern had become 
unsustainable by that point.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that there was no indication that 
Miss Y was struggling financially at loan 5. And it verified that each of the loans were 
affordable before it issued them. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss Y 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ys complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss Y didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss Y had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 and 5 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Miss Y, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Ys case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
Miss Y had been indebted to Morses for around 17 months and there seemed to be 
no indication that she would be able to fully repay her loans in the near future. 
Miss Ys first loan was for £400 and loan 4 was for £300. But Miss Y hadnt repaid 
loan 3 at this point, which was also for £400, so her indebtedness seemed to be 
increasing. 
Right from the start Miss Y was provided with a new loan very shortly after the 
previous one had ended or while she was still making repayments to the loan she 
had. 
Taking all of this together Morses ought to have known that Miss Y was borrowing to 
meet an ongoing need and it was more likely than not that Miss Ys indebtedness 
was unsustainable. Miss Y wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out over two years after Miss Ys first. Miss Y had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Miss Y lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ys indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Miss Y borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss Y from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss Y may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss Y in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss Y would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss Y loans 4 and 5.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss Y towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss Y 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss Y originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss Y as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss Y having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss Y. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss Y. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Ys borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Ys 
credit file. Morses does not have to remove loan 5 from Miss Ys credit file until these have 
been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about these 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ys complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman