DRN-2182498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group (ZBV) has turned down 
a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R booked a holiday in August 2018. They were due to travel in June 2019. They 
took out a travel insurance policy online through a broker on 19 February 2019. The policy 
was underwritten (insured) by ZBV. 
Unfortunately, in May 2019, Mr R was diagnosed with cancer. So Mr and Mrs R had to 
cancel their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
ZBV turned down the claim. It had considered medical evidence from Mr Rs GP and his 
treating doctors. Based on that evidence, it believed Mr R had been under investigation for 
the condition causing the claim since October 2018. So it considered the condition to fall 
within its definition of a pre-existing condition, which is specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. 
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with ZBVs decision. They said Mr Rs diagnosis in May 2019 
was nothing to do with the symptoms and investigations hed had in October 2018. He 
provided evidence from his treating doctors which appeared to support this position. And 
which stated that Mr R couldnt have been aware of his eventual diagnosis when hed taken 
out the policy. Mr and Mrs R asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator thought it was fair for ZBV to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. She accepted 
that the symptoms Mr R suffered in October 2018 werent linked to the condition hed 
ultimately been diagnosed with. 
But she noted that Mr R had been referred for a CT scan on 7 February 2019, which was 
only a couple of weeks before hed taken out the policy. It was the results of this scan which 
highlighted that Mr R had an unexpected lesion. So the investigator felt it was fair for ZBV to 
conclude Mr R had been undergoing investigations at the time he and Mrs R took out the 
policy. And that therefore, he had been suffering from a pre-existing medical condition at that 
point. This meant she felt it was fair for ZBV to rely on the pre-existing medical condition 
exclusion to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They felt the condition they were claiming for had only been 
discovered during an MRI scan. But the scan had been organised to check up on a benign 
condition Mr R had previously been diagnosed with. They provided a further letter from Mr 
Rs treating specialist which said it isnt clear if the cancer diagnosis was linked to Mr Rs 
original symptoms. But he certainly hadnt been aware of the malignancy until May 2019.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for ZBV to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. Ill explain 
why. 
The relevant regulatory rules say that an insurer must handle claims fairly and promptly. And 
that it mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered all that both 
parties have said and sent us to decide whether I think ZBV treated Mr and Mrs R fairly. 
Mr and Mrs R took out a policy online through a broker. The policy they took out doesnt 
cover any pre-existing medical conditions. It says: You will not be covered under this policy 
for any claims arising directly or indirectly from a pre-existing medical condition. 
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as: Any medical condition where you have been 
prescribed medication, including repeat prescriptions, or received treatment or attended a 
GP or specialist as an outpatient or inpatient in the last 2 years or for which you are currently 
on a waiting list for treatment or investigation. 
I think ZBV set out the exclusion clause clearly in the policy wording. I also think the Travel 
Insurance Information Document clearly set out that pre-existing medical conditions werent 
covered. So I need to consider whether I think Mr R had a pre-existing medical condition 
and whether it was reasonable for ZBV to apply the policy exclusion to the claim. 
Ive looked closely at the timeline of events. Its common ground that Mr R saw his GP in 
October 2018 with a sore throat. His consultant surgeon (in their most recent letter) said Mr 
R had the feeling of something in his throat intermittently for around two years and that was 
the reason for the GPs specialist referral in October 2018. An ultrasound at that point 
diagnosed benign thyroid nodules and I understand a follow-up was scheduled for around 
six months later to check if the nodules had grown. At this point, there was nothing to 
suggest Mr R had a serious health condition. 
On 7 February 2019, Mr R saw a private consultant who arranged a CT scan for early March 
2019 to check on the growth of the nodules. It isnt clear what prompted him to visit the 
private doctor or why an earlier check-up of the nodules by CT scan was arranged a couple 
of months earlier than planned. (Although I appreciate Mr R says he had private medical 
insurance which he was taking advantage of.) But it is clear that this CT scan, which was 
arranged on 7 February 2019, found an unexpected lesion. This meant Mr R needed to 
undergo substantive further testing and ultimately resulted in the diagnosis of cancer. 
So at the point Mr R took out the policy on 19 February 2019, I think it is fair to conclude that 
he was undergoing specific investigations. While I accept he didnt expect malignancy to be 
found, I do think these investigations were directly linked to the cause of the claim. 
Ive also looked very carefully at the medical evidence the specialists and Mr Rs GP have 
provided. All are clear that Mr R wasnt aware of his eventual diagnosis when he bought the 
policy. I appreciate this mustve come as a real shock to Mr and Mrs R and how distressing 
this mustve been for them. 
But Mr Rs consultant surgeons letter of 4 June 2020 does appear to suggest a link between 
Mr Rs original investigations in October 2018 and his diagnosis. Thats because he stated 
that the symptoms Mr R initially saw his GP about  the feeling of something in his throat - 
had persisted and he said: for that reason an MRI scan of his neck was carried out in March 
2019. (Evidence from Mr Rs GP suggests this MRI was carried out because the CT scan 
carried out earlier in March 2019 found a lesion). It was then that the tumour was found. The consultant surgeon also said that it is impossible to sure whether the feeling of 
something in the throat was caused by thistumour. Given it seems the treating consultant 
surgeon believed the MRI was scheduled due to the persistence of Mr Rs original 
symptoms, it does appear they felt there may be a link. Even if there wasnt though, Im still 
persuaded that Mr R was undergoing specific investigations when he took out the policy. 
Considering all of the evidence, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Rs position, given the 
nature of the investigations, I think it was reasonable for ZBV to decide they fell within the 
scope of the pre-existing medical condition definition. And as these investigations were 
directly linked to Mr Rs eventual diagnosis and cancellation of the trip, I think it was fair for 
ZBV to rely on the policy exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions to turn down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman