DRN-3865121
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster) handled his request to be 
removed as a signatory for a bank account that was owned by a sports club.
What happened
Around October 2020 Mr M says he contacted Ulster to be removed as a signatory of the 
sports club bank account. Mr M says as this had still not been actioned, from February 2021 
he repeatedly asked Ulster to remove him as a signatory from the account. 
Mr M was eventually removed as a signatory of the account on 24 June 2021. However, he 
says he still had access to the club account via his online banking afterwards.
To remove Mr M from the account, Ulster removed Mr Ms access to his online banking and 
Mr M was then required to re-enrol for online banking, which he did on 10 September 2021.
Mr M says that after he did this, he could still see a list of payees of the sports club account 
in amongst his own personal payees. Mr M also says that an arranged overdraft facility was 
removed from his personal account.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Ulster apologised and said it was willing to pay Mr M £100 
to put matters right. It did add however, that a signatory of the club account will need to 
complete any further forms to update the account details, as Mr M was no longer associated 
with the sports club.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they thought that the offer to pay Mr M 
£100 was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr M disagreed with this, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I can see that Mr M has raised a number of questions. And Mr M has also 
asked that our service provide guidance to Ulster on how it should improve or change its 
processes in a number of areas.
I think it may help to explain that our service is not a regulator. As such, we do not monitor 
the systems and processes that financial businesses use. Nor is our service able to instruct 
financial businesses to change or improve their systems or processes. Its also the case that 
our service isnt able to punish or fine a business if it has breached any rules or regulations  
again that is the role of the regulator. 
Instead, our role, where matters have not gone as they shouldve (as is the case here), is to 
consider what impact this had on the person complaining. And if its appropriate to do so, to 
instruct the business to put matters right.
Because of this, I would like to manage Mr Ms expectations and make it clear that our 
service is not able to do a number of things that Mr M has asked us to do to resolve this 
complaint. Ultimately, Im limited to only considering whether anything went wrong, and if it 
did, what impact this matter has had on Mr M specifically and how Ulster should put matters 
right.
Club account being accessed via Mr Ms online banking access
Mr M has raised concerns that he was able to access the sports club account via his 
personal online banking login details. 
I appreciate that Mr M is dissatisfied with this and asked our service to look into this practice. 
But overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the fact he was able to view the sports 
club account through his personal online banking log-in adversely affected Mr M. And as 
outlined above, our service is unable to instruct Ulster to change how it operates. Although I 
would add that I dont think that it is particularly unusual or unreasonable practice that 
someone is able to see all of the accounts they have access to with the same bank via a 
single log-in.
Delay in removing him as a signatory
Looking through what has happened, it is clear that there was a delay in removing Mr M as a 
signatory of the sports club account. 
Mr M says he contacted Ulster again in February 2021, and Ive no reason to doubt him on 
this. But for some reason that is still not clear, it looks like Ulster didnt pick up his request to 
be removed as a signatory until June 2021. Ive not seen any explanation as to why this 
delay occurred, but I agree with Mr M that this delay was not reasonable.
Ulster did eventually remove Mr M as a signatory of the account in question on 24 June 
2021. However, based on what Ulster has provided, it appears that whoever processed this 
didnt complete all of the steps of the removal process. This led to the account still appearing 
on Mr Ms online banking, even though he was no longer a signatory of the account. 
Again, this was clearly an error, and had things gone as they shouldve, that shouldve been 
the end of the matter for Mr M. But beyond the annoyance caused to Mr M in having to 
chase Ulster about this again, I cant see that this had a significant negative impact on Mr M.
Mr Ms online banking access removed
I understand that Mr M contacted Ulster again after 24 June 2021, to explain that he could 
still see the sports club account when he logged-in online. 
Ulster (eventually) recognised the error that it had made and the process to remove the club 
account from Mr Ms online banking log-in was finally fully completed on 8 September 2021.
Ulster has explained that its processes to remove a signatory from a business account, is to 
essentially reset the individuals online banking credentials so that the business account no 
longer appears in their list of accounts. And once that is completed, the individual is then 
required to register again for online banking.
Unfortunately, it seems that this process wasnt actually explained to Mr M before it took 
place. Mr M says he discovered this by chance when he went to log in to his account on 10 
September 2021. 
Fortunately, Mr M was able to register (again) for online banking on the same day. 
Therefore, although its clear Ulster failed to forewarn Mr M about this, and I recognise it 
wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr M to register again, in the circumstances I 
cant see that this mistake had either a significant or protracted negative impact on Mr M. 
Continuing to have access to the Payee information
After the account was removed, Mr M says that some of the payees from the sports club 
account were still included in the list of his personal payees. 
I do understand Mr Ms concerns surrounding this. But having said that, I cant reasonably 
say that the existence of the sports club payees information remaining on his personal payee list has adversely impacted Mr M. Nor can I say that it has led to a breach of Mr Ms 
personal data being disclosed incorrectly. 
So I dont think an award is warranted to Mr M for this aspect of his complaint. Although I will 
add that Mr M is free to take his concerns to the information commissioners office, the 
details of which have already been provided by the adjudicators.
Loss of overdraft 
Finally, Mr M has said that when his online banking access was reset, a £3,000 overdraft 
was removed from one of his accounts.
Our adjudicators investigated this further with Ulster. Ulster has provided screen shots from 
its system records, and it says that it has no record of Mr M having such an overdraft on the 
account in question (account number ending in an 8). Ulster provided bank ledgers for this 
account, which go back to 2012. Looking through these, there appears to be minimal use of 
the account, with it largely remaining within a small credit balance. But there is no evidence 
(such as overdraft interest or charges being applied) that there was ever an overdraft on the 
account in question. The evidence that Ulster has provided shows that an overdraft of £600 
was present on one of Mr Ms other accounts, and this looks to have been unaffected by him 
resetting his online banking.
I have to say it would be highly unusual that someone changing or resetting their online 
banking credentials would have any impact on any of the features of their accounts. After all 
the online banking credentials are only needed to be able to view remotely the information 
that is stored on the banks servers. 
So taking everything into account, and as there is a distinct lack of evidence that even 
suggests an arranged overdraft was on the account, let alone removed from it, Im unable to 
conclude that this was likely to have happened. 
Conclusions
Its clear that there was an unreasonable delay in Ulster removing Mr M from the sports club 
account. And it seems that when Ulster did this, it then failed to explain to Mr M what he 
would need to do i.e. register again for online banking. And Ulster failed to follow its own 
processes correctly, which led to Mr M still being able to view the account in question online, 
after hed been removed as a signatory on the account.
I can see that this matter has caused Mr M a fair amount of inconvenience and frustration in 
having to contact Ulster on a number of occasions to rectify matters. However, Im also 
mindful that some of the issues Mr M raised (such as whether Ulster breached data 
protections laws regarding the sports club payees) were not strictly about him, and so were 
matters that I could not consider within this complaint. So when considering everything that 
does form part of this complaint, I think that Ulsters offer of £100 to reflect the 
inconvenience this matter has caused Mr M is not unreasonable. 
Therefore, whilst Ulster clearly got things wrong, I think that this is a reasonable amount of 
redress to put matters right in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Ulster Bank Ltd need to do anything more, 
beyond what it offered in its email of 1 November 2021, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Thomas WhiteOmbudsman