DRN-4099294
The complaint
Mr O complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, restricted and hasnt returned the funds 
held in it to him or the source account. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Pockit in my decision. 
What happened
In June 2020, Pockit reviewed Mr Os account and later asked him for information relating to 
the source of funds. Later in December 2020, following its review Pockit restricted Mr Os 
account. Pockit says that following this review, it decided to return any remaining funds in 
Mr Os account back to the source they had come from. 
Mr O says £815 that were held in the account were returned to him after he had cancelled a 
previously booked holiday. 
Pockit adds that it sent the funds back to the holiday company in late 2021. Mr O says this 
money hasnt been returned as Pockit say. Pockit closed Mr Os account in 
September 2021. 
Unhappy with Pockits responses, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Mr Os complaint. They upheld the complaint and in summary 
found: 
- Payment Service Providers (PSP) are under numerous legal and regulatory 
obligations
- Theyre not able to share Pockits reasons, but it acted fairly when closing Mr Os 
account 
- The funds were from a legitimate source  cancellation of a holiday  so Mr O was 
entitled to them. As Pockit havent returned the funds as it says it has to source, it 
should pay them directly to Mr O 
- As its been well over 18 months since Mr Os account was closed, this delay is unfair
- To put things right, Pockit should pay Mr O the principal sum of £815 plus 8% interest 
from April 2021 to the date of refund. It should also pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused
Mr O agreed with what our Investigator said. In its response Pockit said it doesnt agree as 
the funds had been returned to the sender. 
As Pockit didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Os complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Review of account 
Regulated businesses in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
I note Pockit say it carried out a standard review of Mr Os account, and later asked him for 
information about his source of funds. As Ive said Pockit has obligations under which it must 
work. So I dont think its unfair it carried out a review and placed restrictions on the account 
whilst it did so. 
But I do question why it originally placed the account under review in June 2020 and then 
sought information about the source of funds in December 2020. This is an excessive delay. 
Pockit point to COVID challenges around the time for why it took this long. I can understand 
this, but given this was a customers account, I think it should have acted with more speed 
and prudence. 
Funds returned to source 
Pockits statement of account that Ive been given shows Mr O receiving his refunds from the 
holiday company in April 2021, and them being returned to source in August 2021.  This 
again is a severe delay on Pockits part. But I need to address whether I think Pockit acted 
fairly in deciding to return Mr O funds to source  or whether it should have given him access 
to them. 
Pockit initially asked Mr O to explain the source of his funds in June 2020  well before the 
refunds from the Holiday company in April 2021. Mr O explained that he used his account 
mainly for his lodger to pay his rent into, so as to keep it separate from his main current 
account. He added that he spent the money on incidentals like kids pocket money, a family 
holiday and other such things.  
Pockit hasnt been able to give any more information about what Mr O provided it with to 
show entitlement to the funds going into the account and the account remained under 
review.  
Mr O has given me information which Im satisfied shows he had cancelled his holiday and 
that the funds were being refunded to him  partly into his Pockit account. Pockit then 
decided to return these funds back to the holiday company as it had concerns about Mr O. 
Having looked at the information Mr O and Pockit have given me, Im persuaded Mr O was 
entitled to these funds. Thats because Pockit hasnt shown enough evidence that it had 
valid concerns about any money coming into Mr Os account  and that the funds refunded 
to Mr O did come from a legitimate source. Nor have I seen anything else that would indicate 
Mr O wasnt entitled to the funds. 
Because of this Im satisfied Pockit didnt have grounds enough to return the funds to the 
holiday company. 
Mr O has sent me emails from the holiday company which show they havent received the 
funds. Our Investigator enquired about this and Pockit said in an email dated December 2022 that the funds were due to be returned to the merchant, but as it doesnt 
have the merchants details, its holding on to them. 
In response to our Investigators findings, Pockit have sent a screen shot which it says 
shows the funds were returned in November 2021.  Firstly, Im not persuaded Pockits 
screenshot is evidence enough to show the funds were returned to the merchant. But more 
importantly, it told us in December 2022 that it couldnt return the funds and that it is holding 
on to them. 
So it follows that Im not satisfied the funds were returned to the merchant  that is, the 
holiday company. Given I dont think Pockit had reason enough to return the funds to source, 
and as Im satisfied it is still holding them, it should return these funds to Mr O.  
Mr O has been deprived of these funds which he should have had since they were refunded 
to him in April 2021. Because of this, Pockit should pay simple interest on them of 8% from 
April 2021 up until settlement. 
Mr O says hes not concerned about the account being closed. So this isnt something I need 
to make a finding on. 
Distress and inconvenience 
Mr O says he used his Pockit account for incidental expenses like holidays and pocket 
money for the kids. So Im satisfied the loss of its services didnt impact him that much. Hes 
also said he had a current account  presumably with a third-party bank.  
But I do think the protracted nature of Pockits investigation, albeit tempered by COVID 
challenges, and him having to regularly chase up the matter wouldve caused him some 
distress and inconvenience. Because of that I think Pockit should pay him £100 
compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Pockit should: 
- Pay Mr O the funds held in his account of £815 
- Pay 8% simple interest of these funds from 19 April 2021 up until settlement*
- Pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
* If Pockit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct PayrNet Limited to put 
things right as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman