DRN-3039940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) unfairly cancelled their 
home insurance policy, resulting in financial losses for them.
What happened
Soteria had provided Mr and Mrs C home insurance cover for many years. Soteria decided 
to re-write its policy and attempted to transition Mr and Mrs C across to the new policy 
around the renewal date. Mr and Mrs C seemed unaware of the changes. There was an 
issue with the transition which resulted in Mr and Mrs C unknowingly missing a payment on 
the policy in May 2019.
Soteria shouldve requested the missing payment, but there isnt evidence that this 
happened. Due to the missed payment, Soterias IT system automatically cancelled the 
policy. There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs C were notified of the cancellation. Soteria 
upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, it said its clear the policy was cancelled in error. As 
confirmed above, our Underwriters have advised any claim would've been covered (subject 
to the Terms and Conditions of the policy at that time). In recognition of any concern caused, 
Ive also arranged for a payment of £75.00 to be sent to Mr and Mrs C as an apology.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the resolution. They said due to the cancellation, they were 
without insurance for 18 months and during that time their roof was damaged by a storm. Mr 
and Mrs C had the roof repaired and they want to be refunded for these costs.
Mr and Mrs C wanted to make sure they were insured. But, Soteria couldnt reinstate the old 
policy and it said it was no longer offering insurance cover for properties of a size like Mr and 
Mrs Cs. So, Mr and Mrs C took out a new policy with a new insurer, but the premiums were 
much higher. Mr and Mrs C want to be recompensed for the higher premiums.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the compensation Soteria offered 
was fair for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C suffered when they realised they 
werent insured. He didnt think Mr and Mrs C had suffered any other financial consequence 
due to the cancellation. He said what Mr and Mrs C saved in premiums wouldve covered the 
cost of the damaged roof and he thought the higher premiums wouldve materialised 
anyway. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Soteria has accepted responsibility for cancelling the policy in error. Mr and Mrs Cs decision 
to escalate the complaint to our service is because they dont think theyve been fairly 
compensated for the consequences of the error. I have looked at each point separately.
Claim for roof repairs
Mr and Mrs C want the cost of their roof repairs to be refunded. Soteria said I cant see any 
reference to a potential claim, and this wasnt highlighted within the initial complaint. There 
was a call from the Third Party wanting to discuss the complaint and the complaint handler 
called back, leaving a message for the Third party to contact him but no further contact. as 
part of its escalation to our service indicated.
I have considered this further. I have carefully reviewed the call Mrs C made to Soteria when 
she realised she was uninsured. On the call she explained she had spoken to her bank and 
recognised there was an issue with her insurance. Soteria explained clearly to Mrs C what 
had happened which led to the policy being cancelled. Its also clear that Mrs C understood 
what she was told. She understood her policy was cancelled. Her only concern at that time 
was getting a new policy set-up. I think if Mrs C was worried about damage to her roof 
caused by a recent storm, I think its likely she wouldve mentioned it on this call.
As Soteria said, there was no mention of a claim. Therefore, I dont have any evidence to 
suggest a storm did cause the damage to the roof. Normally, when a claim is made for storm 
damage, the insurer would have opportunity to assess and validate the damage. Mr and Mrs 
C had the damage repaired before it could be assessed. So, for this claim, Soteria hasnt 
had the opportunity to assess the damage.
Given the claim wasnt raised with Soteria and it didnt have opportunity to validate the 
damage, I dont think its fair to expect it to cover these costs. Soteria also said As the cost 
of the claim was £1,200, it appears the amount of premiums that would be deducted, along 
with the excess would put the customer in the same position. I think what Soteria has said is 
reasonable, I dont think Mr and Mrs C wouldve suffered financial loss as the costs theyve 
incurred in repairing the roof has been offset by the savings it has made in not paying 
insurance premiums during the uninsured period. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
Higher premiums
Mr and Mrs C believe they have been penalised by having to take out a new insurance 
policy at a higher price. I dont agree and Ill explain why. Soteria said, the reason it was 
changing their policies originally was because it could no longer offer the same cover at the 
same price. In other words, it couldnt make any profit on these types of policy. Its important 
to recognise that its the insurers decision whether to offer a policy at renewal or not, and this 
will normally be down to commercial reasons. Therefore, its not unreasonable for Soteria to 
stop offering a policy at renewal or to change its price.
Insurers will normally renew cover with customers every year. At each renewal, the insurer 
will decide the risk it is taking on by covering a customer and set the price accordingly. This 
is done across the industry and competition between insurers ensures prices dont become 
unfairly distorted. When Mr and Mrs C obtained their new policy from a new insurer, they 
wouldve done this in a competitive market. They may even have had access to a new 
customer discount.
Therefore, whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs premium may have been higher than what 
they previously paid. I dont think its likely that the price was higher than it wouldve been 
with Soteria or for that matter any other competitively priced policy. Therefore, as I dont 
think Mr and Mrs C have been penalised, I wont be upholding this aspect of the complaint.    
Distress and inconvenience
Soteria offered £75 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs Cs 
insurance was cancelled around May/June 2019, but they said they didnt realise they were 
uninsured until January 2021. I can appreciate that when Mr and Mrs C learnt that they werent insured, it wouldve caused some stress for them. However, as they werent aware of 
this for the period they were uninsured, I dont think this wouldve lasted for a long time. Mr 
and Mrs C wouldve needed to arrange a new policy, so I can see this will have been 
inconvenient for them. However, as Soteria were no longer offering this kind of policy, Mr 
and Mrs C wouldve needed to switch to a new insurer anyway so I dont think there has 
been that much more inconvenience. Therefore, I think Soterias offer of compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be upholding this aspect of the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C are still entitled to claim this offer of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Soteria Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman