DRN-3714041
The complaint
Mr L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited mis-sold him a Worldwide Health Options 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2014, BUPA sold Mr L a Worldwide Health Options policy which included Worldwide 
Medical Insurance (WMI), Worldwide Medical Plus (WMP) and Worldwide Evacuation 
cover. 
Mr L complained to BUPA about various issues in 2017, 2018 and 2019. In September 2019, 
BUPA acknowledged that Mr L was given incorrect information about how the deductibles for 
WMI and WMP applied to different inpatient and outpatient treatments. BUPA said it had 
waived some deductibles and added them as a credit to Mr Ls account. BUPA also paid Mr 
L £200 compensation for this and other complaint points. Following the receipt of this letter, 
Mr L cancelled his WMP cover and increased the deductible payable under his WMI from 
$1,700 to $8,500. 
In February 2021, Mr L complained to BUPA that his policy had been mis-sold to him. He 
said that, if BUPA had given him correct information about the applicable deductibles, he 
would not have purchased WMP at all and wouldnt have taken out WMI with as low a 
deductible as he did. 
BUPA sent Mr L a final response letter in April 2021, addressing his complaint about the mis-
sale of his policy. BUPA again acknowledged that Mr L had been given incorrect information 
about how the deductibles would be applied and also said it had given Mr L incorrect 
information about one of the available policy benefits. BUPA reviewed all of Mr Ls claims 
since 2014 to determine which ones were affected by the incorrect advice and offered to 
refund him the deductibles which hadnt been applied as BUPA has explained they would 
when the policy was sold. BUPA also added interest and paid Mr L $275 for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. Following an error by BUPA in making this payment to Mr L, 
it recalculated the interest due and increased the compensation payment to $400.00. 
Mr L was unhappy with how BUPA calculated the redress for its error when selling the policy 
and brought a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint was referred to me. I 
made my provisional decision about Mr Ls complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
BUPA initially queried whether Mr Ls complaint had been brought to us with the six-month 
time limit set out under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules. For the 
avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that it has. 
BUPAs final response letters dated 12 December 2018 and 17 December 2018 arent 
relevant to the subject matter of this complaint. Although the final response letter of 
September 2019 addressed the information about deductibles provided by BUPA during the 
sales call (amongst other things), this issue was re-investigated and addressed again in 
BUPAs final response letter of April 2021 which contained referral rights to our service. Mr L 
referred the matter to us within six months of April 2021, so Im satisfied that this complaint is 
one which I have the power to consider. 
The sale of Mr Ls policy 
BUPA has indicated that the sale of Mr Ls policy was advised. Regardless of whether the 
sale was advised or non-advised, under the relevant industry rules, BUPA needed to give Mr 
L information about his policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. If the sale was advised, 
BUPA also needed to ensure that Mr Ls policy was suitable for his demands and needs. 
I havent been able to listen to the call during which Mr L was given incorrect advice by 
BUPA. But I dont think I need to. It isnt in dispute that BUPA gave incorrect information to 
Mr L. 
Mr L has said, when he bought the policy from BUPA, he was seeking WMI cover with a 
mid-range deductible ($1,700) in the event of an unexpected serious illness requiring 
significant and potentially expensive in-patient treatments. Mr L says he was historically 
healthy with a low claims history, active, wealthy and debt-free with no dependents so he 
was willing to take on an element of self-insurance in this regard. Mr L says he wanted WMP 
with the lowest possible deductible ($170) to cover smaller, outpatient expenses. Mr L says 
he was told that the WMP cover was for all outpatient costs and that no outpatient expenses 
were covered by the WMI. BUPA has acknowledged that the explanation given to Mr L in 
2014 didnt accurately reflect how his policy operated.  
I dont think the information given to Mr L by BUPA was clear. I think the information was 
misleading and, based on the evidence available to me, I dont think the policy was suitable 
for Mr Ls needs. So, regardless of whether the sale was advised or non-advised, Im 
satisfied that BUPA mis-sold Mr Ls policy to him. 
The fact that Mr L had a cooling-off period in which to cancel the policy and/or the content of 
any renewal documents which were sent to Mr L in the years following 2014 doesnt change 
this. Nor does the fact that Mr L didnt take BUPA up on its offers to discuss his needs in 
subsequent years. The policy documentation wouldnt necessarily have clearly alerted Mr L 
to the fact that the deductibles didnt apply in the way that BUPA had explained to him. Mr L 
was entitled to rely on the information provided to him by BUPA when the policy was sold in 
2014. 
Generally, when a policy has been mis-sold, the fair and reasonable remedy is for the 
consumer to be put back in the position they would have been in if the error had never 
happened. This means, if the consumer would never have purchased the policy, the policy 
should be treated as never having existed and the consumer should receive a refund of the 
premiums theyve paid, less the value of any successful claims, together with interest. 
Mr L says, if BUPA had made it clear how the policy operated, he may have looked for a 
different private medical insurance option elsewhere in the marketplace. However, at the 
very least, he says he would have moved further towards self-insuring and not taken the 
WMP element of cover at all. Mr L says he would instead have taken the WMI with a higher 
deductible. 
I cant conclude with any certainty exactly what Mr L would have done differently if BUPA 
had given him correct information. However, Mr L has provided what I think is persuasive 
evidence about his financial capacity to self-insure and his risk-appetite. I also think Mr Ls decision to cancel the WMP and increase the WMI deductible to $8,500 in 2019 supports his 
testimony as to what he is likely to have done if the policy hadnt been mis-sold. 
BUPAs position of crediting and/or refunding the deductibles applied to Mr Ls claims puts 
Mr L in the position he would have been in if the incorrect information given at the time of the 
sale had been true. It doesnt, despite BUPAs repeated arguments on this point, put Mr L 
back in the position he would have been in if the correct information had been given to him  
which is what BUPA needs to do. As such, I dont think BUPA has provided fair redress to 
Mr L in the circumstances. 
But, it also wouldnt be fair for BUPA to refund all the premiums Mr L paid in a situation 
where he has had the benefit of claims under the original policy, and when I think its likely 
hed still have gone ahead and taken out cover with BUPA in some form if hed been given 
correct information. So, Ive outlined what I currently think is fair redress below.
BUPAs handling of Mr Ls complaint 
I understand that Mr L has spent considerable time and effort in corresponding with BUPA 
about this complaint, and his failed attempts to seek what he sees as fair redress from BUPA 
as a result of its mistake will have caused him distress and inconvenience. 
But we dont usually make a specific compensation award for someones time, and we cant 
seek to punish or fine businesses through our awards as were not the regulator. We 
wouldnt generally award compensation at the level which Mr L is seeking for errors of this 
nature. 
Ive taken into account our published guidance on the payment of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience and, overall, I think the compensation which BUPA has already paid to 
Mr L in respect of this complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the impact of 
its actions on Mr L.
So, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I said I intended 
to direct BUPA to treat the WMP as never having existed and calculate the premiums which 
Mr L would have paid if hed taken out a Worldwide Health Options policy with Worldwide 
Medical Insurance (with a deductible of £8,500 from the outset) and Worldwide Evacuation 
cover only from 2014 to 2019. I said that BUPA should refund Mr L the difference between 
the above and the amount he actually paid for his original policy from the date of inception in 
2014 until the date the policy was amended in 2019. I also said that BUPA could deduct the 
value of any claims paid (including any deductibles previously credited to or refunded to Mr L 
together with any interest) from the settlement and that it should add interest to the premium 
refund at 8% simple per annum from the date the original policy was taken out in 2014 until 
the date the settlement is paid.
BUPA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr L 
replied with detailed submissions as to why I should amend my interest award. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Mr L has said, but I wont be changing my provisional direction. 
In cases like this, which dont involve borrowing, we generally think that a rate of 8% simple 
interest per year is an appropriate award to reflect the cost of being deprived of money in the 
past. I see no reason to depart from that here. If there is any subsequent dispute about the calculation of BUPAs settlement then this 
would need to be the subject of a new complaint, first to BUPA and then to our service if the 
matter remains unresolved. 
Putting things right
BUPA Insurance Limited needs to put things right by doing the following:
Treat the WMP as never having existed and calculate the premiums which Mr L
would have paid if hed taken out a Worldwide Health Options policy with Worldwide
Medical Insurance (with a deductible of £8,500 from the outset) and Worldwide
Evacuation cover only from 2014 to 2019;
Refund Mr L the difference between the above and the amount he actually paid for
his original policy from the date of inception in 2014 until the date the policy was
amended in 2019;
BUPA Insurance Limited can deduct the value of any claims paid (including any
deductibles previously credited to or refunded to Mr L together with any interest) from
the settlement;
BUPA Insurance Limited should add interest to the premium refund at 8% simple per
annum from the date the original policy was taken out in 2014 until the date the
settlement is paid1.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against BUPA Insurance Limited and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If BUPA Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 