DRN-4431097
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim he made on a group 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M is insured under a group private medical insurance policy. In September 2022, Mr M 
called Vitality to discuss arranging a consultation with a doctor because hed been 
experiencing symptoms of fatigue. He felt the symptoms could be caused by sleep apnoea. 
Vitalitys call handler told Mr M that although sleep apnoea wasnt covered by the policy, he 
would be covered up to diagnosis.
Subsequently, in February 2023, Mr M called Vitality again regarding a diagnostic 
consultation. However, at this point, two members of Vitalitys staff told Mr M that the 
consultation wouldnt be covered. This was followed-up by emails which stated that the claim 
had been turned down because his GP suspected that sleep apnoea was the cause of his 
symptoms.
Mr M was very unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he complained. He was also unhappy as 
hed spent some time on the phone and in communicating with Vitality.
Vitality issued its first final response to Mr Ms complaint on 21 March 2023. It acknowledged 
that the claim shouldnt have been turned down and it offered to cover the cost of Mr Ms 
consultation and diagnostics. It also offered Mr M £150 compensation.
Mr M remained unhappy with Vitalitys position and he continued to contact it to ask for 
further clarification about why the claim had been incorrectly turned down. Vitality didnt 
respond to Mr Ms concerns and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
While the complaint was with us, Vitality reviewed Mr Ms further emails and issued a second 
final response letter addressing his further concerns on 7 July 2023. Vitality acknowledged 
that it wasnt clear why its staff had previously incorrectly assumed that Mr Ms consultation 
had been aimed at a diagnosis of sleep apnoea. And it acknowledged that the information its 
staff had given Mr M in February 2023 was wrong. It confirmed that it had reimbursed Mr M 
for the costs of his consultation and diagnostic tests. And it offered to pay Mr M total 
compensation of £200.
Our investigator felt Vitality had made a fair offer to settle Mr Ms complaint. She accepted it 
had made mistakes when it had wrongly informed Mr M that his claim wouldnt be covered. 
But she felt that £200 was fair compensation to reflect the time and trouble Mr M had been 
put to as a result of Vitalitys error.
Mr M disagreed. Briefly, he didnt agree that Vitality could have made an assumption that 
hed been diagnosed with sleep apnoea when it had repeatedly been told this wasnt the 
case. He questioned why four members of Vitalitys staff had all declined the claim on the 
wrong grounds. He said he hadnt seen anything to support or substantiate the conclusion 
that any of Vitalitys staff had made mistakes and he questioned how the investigator had 
reached this conclusion.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think Vitality has already made a fair 
offer of compensation and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Vitality accepts both that it didnt handle Mr 
Ms claim promptly or fairly and that it turned down the claim unreasonably. Its accordingly 
offered Mr M compensation for these failings and so I think the key issue for me to decide is 
whether its offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
It's clear that Mr M has real concerns about the reasons why multiple members of Vitalitys 
staff wrongly reached a conclusion that the consultation was aimed at a diagnosis of sleep 
apnoea and why those staff members told him that his consultation wouldnt be covered. Im 
satisfied though that Vitalitys second final response to Mr Ms complaint clearly suggests 
that Mr Ms claim was wrongly declined because the staff dealing with the claim had 
incorrectly assumed that Mr M had an existing diagnosis of sleep apnoea. The second final 
response also stated that it was unclear why those staff members had reached this particular 
conclusion. In my view, Vitality has explicitly acknowledged that a clear mistake was made 
on this point and I think the second final response letter sufficiently explained what had likely 
gone wrong. I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Vitality was deliberately seeking to 
turn down a valid claim, or to deter Mr M from pursuing his claim further.
Vitality has now accepted and settled Mr Ms claim, as it should have done from the outset. 
But I can understand why Mr M was frustrated by the misinformation he was repeatedly 
given by Vitality. And its clear he was put to some unnecessary time, trouble and 
inconvenience in trying to resolve things. Its clear too that even after Vitality issued its first 
final response to Mr Ms complaint, further communications from him werent responded to 
until July 2023  some months after the complaint had first been made. Again, I appreciate 
that this is likely to have caused Mr M further frustration, upset and time which could have 
been avoided had Vitality responded to his additional concerns in a timelier way.
I appreciate Mr M doesnt feel that £200 compensation is enough to recognise his time and 
trouble in dealing with Vitalitys errors. However, our role isnt to punish or fine the 
businesses we cover. And neither do we generally award compensation in line with a 
consumers usual hourly rate. In my view, compensation of £200 is a fair, reasonable and 
proportionate award to reflect the likely material adverse impact of Vitalitys mistakes on Mr 
M between February and July 2023.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I find that Vitality has already taken fair and 
reasonable steps to put right its mistakes. And so it follows that I find its existing offer of 
£200 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its now open to Mr M to 
contact Vitality directly if hed like to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Vitality has already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman