DRN-2335245
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.  
What happened
 Mr A took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a credit card in one of the 
banks branches. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint. HSBC disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC recommended the policy to Mr A so it had to check it was right for him. It also had to 
provide Mr A with information on the PPI in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so he could 
make an informed choice about whether or not he wanted to take it. I dont think its shown it 
did either of these things properly.
The policy terms say that the cover provided by this policy and all benefit payments will end 
if any of the following happen: You reach 65 years of age (amongst other things).
Mr A would have been 65 around 20 months after the policy was sold. So, looking at the 
policy terms, it seems clear that he only had a limited time to benefit from the cover. And 
even if he managed to make a successful claim before he was 65 the benefit wouldve 
stopped when he reached his 65th birthday. So Mr A had a limited chance of benefitting from 
the policy, and I think theres a real risk that he wouldnt have been able to get the full benefit 
he mightve expected.
HSBC knew Mr A was approaching 65 and I dont think its shown that it considered this 
when making its recommendation, or that it did enough to make Mr A aware how this would 
affect being able to claim on the policy. HSBC argues that the PPI would have been of use 
to Mr A for a period of time and he had no alternate cover in place. But I think that if HSBC 
had better advised and informed Mr A that he would only have a limited time to benefit under 
the policy he mightve wanted to look elsewhere for cover that could protect him beyond his 
65th birthday, particularly - as the bank says - as it seems he didnt have other means to 
cover his repayments if he wasnt working. So I think its most likely he wouldnt have taken 
this cover.
It follows I think Mr A has lost out as a result of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
 HSBC should put Mr A in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr A would have owed when he closed his credit card
account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as 
well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
HSBC should then refund the difference between what Mr A owed when he closed his
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. If Mr A made a successful claim 
under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes 
him.
B. HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr A would have
owed when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when HSBC works out what Mr A would have owed each month without PPI  Mr A
paid more than enough to clear his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest on
the extra Mr A paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr A
would have owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr As complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman