DRN-1965038
The complaint
Miss B complains about the delays and poor handling of her claim following a car accident 
by her motor insurer Zenith Insurance plc.
 
What happened
Miss B was involved in a road accident in June 2016. The other driver told her insurer that 
the accident was Miss Bs fault. Miss B said she wasnt to blame.
In July 2016 Zenith paid the other driver on a without prejudice basis for their car. Zenith 
instructed solicitors in November 2016 but said Miss B wasnt happy with their handling of 
her case and it instructed other solicitors in January 2017. Zenith said there were long 
delays in the solicitors handling of the case until it got to court in November 2018 and the 
court decided that the other driver was wholly responsible for the accident. In March 2019 
Zenith attempted to recover its payment from the third party, but said as it hadnt recovered 
this the claim was still open, but it subsequently allowed Miss Bs No Claims Bonus (NCB). 
Miss B said the evidence showed that the other driver was to blame, and Zenith shouldnt 
have made the payment as it prejudiced her case. Miss B said Zenith won't close the claim 
until it has recovered its payment from the other driver and this caused her premiums to be 
inflated and said shes had to borrow money. She complained to Zenith about this, very poor 
communications and the delays in its handling of her claim. 
Zenith said the service it provided to Miss B was poor  acknowledging that she has had to 
contact it throughout the claim for updates and it awarded her £200 for the delays.
Miss B complained again to Zenith about long call hold times during her claim and not being 
updated. She said the solicitors didnt inform Zenith of the court judgment which caused a 
delay. She was unhappy with the solicitors conduct, saying they tried to force her to agree to 
split liability for the accident. She said when the other driver missed a deadline and she won 
by default, the solicitors agreed for the judgment to be set aside. She said they refused to 
use a report from an investigator that said she wasn't at fault and hadnt contacted a witness 
promptly. She said her attendance costs hadnt been reimbursed and she should receive 
more compensation for the problems shed been caused and thought £800 would be fairer.
Zenith said it cant control prices set by other insurers and had explained to Miss B that even 
a non-fault incident will affect premiums. It said shed experienced long call hold times over 
the past three years and that it hadnt kept her updated. It said it had incorrectly informed her 
during a call that the judgment wasnt on its file. Zenith offered a further £100 compensation. 
Miss B was dissatisfied with Zeniths response and brought her complaint to our service.
Zenith said it provided legal representation for Miss B when it could have split liability with 
the other driver without going to court. It said it allowed the NCB for the claim, even though it 
hadnt recovered its outlay. It said its solicitors handled the proceedings fairly, kept her 
updated and they had addressed Miss Bs complaint and her costs have been reimbursed. 
Zenith said the compensation it offered Miss B totalling £300 overall is fair.
Our investigator said Miss B had been put through a very long and distressing experience 
and Zenith had acknowledged that its customer service had been poor. She said the claim 
didnt need to have lasted three and a half years and Miss B had to request updates from 
Zenith and the solicitors. She said in September 2016 the CCTV had been reviewed by 
advisers who agreed this was favourable to Miss B and so Zenith should have instructed 
solicitors much sooner. She said the solicitors then waited til September 2017 to ask Zenith 
if they wanted proceedings to be issued and these werent issued until December 2017. 
The investigator said Zenith also delayed updating the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
about Miss Bs NCB from the court case in November 2018 until February 2020 causing her 
premiums to rise in the interim. She said Miss B can now obtain refunds from her insurers 
but has been caused inconvenience. She recommended the compensation be increased to 
£800 to reflect the significant impact on Miss B of the poor service she received.
 
Miss B responded that she would like an explanation for Zeniths payment to the other driver 
when she wasnt at fault, rather than the usual process of the driver claiming directly from 
their own insurers which she said wouldnt have affected her policy. 
Zenith disagreed with the investigator. It said it assessed the CCTV evidence as unclear and 
so it sought witness statements. It said Miss B called many times and tried to get the other 
drivers insurer to deal with her directly. Zenith accepted Miss B was vulnerable and that it 
could have done more, but said the handling of her claim wasnt the main factor in any 
financial detriment. It said the claim lasted longer than average and it could have been more 
forceful with its recovery process but couldnt deal with this until liability was resolved. Zenith 
accepted that its service was lacking but still thought that the £300 it offered is fair and in line 
with other compensation awards. Zenith requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has raised a number of points. I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point she has made and have concentrated on what I consider to 
be the main issues. 
Miss B said as a carer she relies on her car and was very worried that if she was found at 
fault for the incident, she wouldnt be able to afford to run her car. I sympathise with her for 
the stress and uncertainty she had to live with for a prolonged period. I have looked carefully 
at Zeniths decisions and handling of her claim to see whether compensation should be 
awarded and if so what amount would be fair. 
 
Claims decisions by Zenith
Miss B asks why Zenith made a payment to the other driver rather than the usual process of 
them claiming directly from their own insurers which she said would have prevented this 
affecting her policy. 
Liability for an accident has to be settled between insurers and when this is disputed an 
insurer is likely to claim against the other drivers insurer. And so the claim of the other driver 
in Miss Bs accident was always going to be put to her insurer as the other driver said the 
accident was Miss Bs fault.
Miss B asked why Zenith made the payment to the other driver as she was deemed to be 
not at fault before that payment was made. From the records I can see that Zenith made a payment to the other driver in respect of their 
car in July 2016 but did so on a without prejudice basis. This was paid over two years 
before the court case about the accident. It may be helpful if I explain insurers authority to 
decide liability in these cases and our consideration of their actions.
First, I should make clear that its not our role to decide who was at fault for the accident. I 
can only look to see if Zenith made its decision on how to settle the claim fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the available evidence and the terms and conditions of the policy.
If an insurer has assessed the evidence of a claim to conclude it doesnt have reasonable 
prospects of success in court and so doesnt think it had a strong enough case to defend, it 
may take over its defence and settle it. Zenith has a term in Miss Bs policy that allows this, 
and it doesnt need the agreement or consent of Miss B to do this. We think insurers can rely 
on this term as long as its fair and reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
Ive looked at Zeniths decision to make an early payment to the other driver and Im pleased 
it did so on a without prejudice basis. This means it was able later to support a legal action 
against the other driver and allow the court to establish who was responsible for the 
accident. From what Ive seen I think Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in this regard. 
Claim handling and delays
Zenith said that disputed claims can take a long time to resolve, but it acknowledged that it 
had allowed the claim to be delayed. Zenith said the service provided to Miss B was poor  
acknowledging that she has had to contact it throughout the claim for updates. Zenith said it 
could have been more forceful with its recovery process. 
I agree with Zenith but think there are other aspects of its handling that could have been 
carried out much better and these include poor and delayed communications between the 
parties. Overall I think the claim lasted much longer than necessary and is characterised by 
a lack of overall control of the various parties and processes by Zenith. In particular I have in 
mind Zeniths management and instructions to its solicitors.
Zenith instructed solicitors in November 2016 and a second firm in January 2017. The 
solicitors took until September 2017 to ask Zenith if they wanted proceedings to be issued 
and then issued these in December 2017. The court case was heard in November 2018 and 
Zenith delayed updating the Claims and Underwriting Exchange about Miss Bs NCB until 
February 2020. 
During this time Miss B appears to have made regular contact in order to establish what was 
happening. Zenith has conceded that it didnt handle things proactively and didnt keep Miss 
B updated. Over three years is a very long time for a policyholder to have to chase progress 
on their case and Zenith let Miss B down. Zenith has said it was aware of Miss Bs 
vulnerability and so it should be aware that the overall impact of these delays and its failure 
to keep her updated about her claim has been significant for her wellbeing. 
Since the incident has been recorded on insurance databases as non-fault and Miss Bs 
NCB has been allowed, there should be no detrimental effect as far as she is concerned. 
Consequently, Miss B is able to recover part of her premium charged by her insurers. Any 
insurer that is still rating the claim negatively against Miss B in respect of premiums can be 
the subject of a separate complaint with the relevant insurer and then to our service. 
I havent seen any evidence of costs Miss B incurred in borrowing money to pay her motor 
premiums.
The conduct of legal proceedingsAlthough Miss B was successful in court she has complained about failures with the legal 
process concerning the use of two CCTV clips and failure to contact a witness straightaway. 
She has also complained about decisions made by the solicitors and their conduct in court. 
So far as delays and poor communications are concerned to do with the instruction and 
management of the solicitors by Zenith, I have considered these above. I havent considered 
her complaints about the conduct of the solicitors and the legal process as these are outside 
of our remit. I understand that Miss B has complained directly to the solicitors about these 
matters.  
Miss B complained that she wasnt reimbursed for her attendance expenses for the legal 
process. I understand that payment for this has since been made.
Conclusion
Under the insurance regulations an insurer must handle a claim promptly and fairly and 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. Zenith hasnt met these requirements in Miss Bs case. 
In terms of the very poor service Miss B received from Zenith I think the compensation 
recommended by the investigator of £800 is about the right reflection of the impact of this 
unhappy process on Miss B. In terms of the claims and legal case these appear to have 
been resolved and I havent found any lasting financial detriment to Miss B.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Zenith Insurance plc to pay Miss B £800 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its poor claims handling has caused her. The sum of £800 is to include the 
£300 compensation Zenith Insurance plc has previously offered Miss B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman