DRN-2821685
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has dealt with 
her claim.
What happened
Miss Fs father is representing her in this complaint. Any reference to Miss F includes all 
submissions by her father.
Miss F bought a healthcare insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. Miss F was previously a 
member of a group scheme via her employer. She left her employment and received a letter 
from AXA inviting her to join a private healthcare plan.
Miss F called and discussed the policy options available to her. The sales adviser explained 
she could either have a policy carrying over her medical history or could start as a new 
customer. Miss F confirmed she wanted continuation of her medical cover. The adviser also 
asked Miss F whether she wanted immediate access to private treatment or whether she 
wanted the six-week NHS option which meant if in-patient treatment was available on the 
NHS within six weeks, then AXA wouldnt cover it. Miss F went for the six-week option. 
The adviser went through Miss Fs options and confirmed she couldnt provide advice and 
that policy documents would be sent in the post. 
Miss F called AXA to make a claim for depression. But AXA declined the claim on the basis 
that treatment was available on the NHS within six weeks. 
Miss F complained to AXA. It explained that it should have given Miss F a further option  
where she could have accessed treatment privately provided she met some criteria which 
would need to be confirmed by her GP. Miss F remained unhappy and referred her 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think AXA had mis-sold the policy. But 
he did think AXA had given incorrect advice to Miss F when she called to make a claim and 
recommended £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result.
AXA agreed but Miss F disagreed and said, in summary:
She was invited to buy the policy as a continuation of her previous cover
The sales adviser confirmed in-patient treatment would be available for anxiety and 
depression
AXA knew treatment wasnt available within six weeks on the NHS
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. In addition, AXA is required to provide Miss F with 
enough information for her to decide whether the policy is right for her needs. 
Ive listened to the initial sales call when Miss F bought the policy and Im satisfied Miss F 
was given clear information about the following:
That it was her medical history which was continued
Miss F could have access to immediate treatment or the six-week NHS option. Miss 
F took the six-week NHS option
I dont think Miss F was mis-led and so I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Miss F wasnt 
told that she was getting a like for like policy and the policy documents clearly confirm what 
is and isnt covered. The adviser explained it was the medical history that was continued and 
the rest of the policy was based on what Miss F wanted. The adviser ran through several 
options with Miss F who confirmed she wanted a policy for peace of mind and she was 
looking for the cheapest policy as she wasnt working at the time. 
Miss F has also complained about the information AXA gave when she made a claim. Miss F 
wanted in-patient treatment for her depression which AXA said wasnt covered under the 
policy as it was available on the NHS within six weeks. But when Miss F raised a formal 
complaint, AXA explained it hadnt given full and clear information about her options. 
AXA said Miss F may be able to receive private treatment for depression if it received 
confirmation that this was the best course of action for her. Miss Fs GP would need to 
confirm that 1) her case had been put forward for a multidisciplinary team meeting held by 
the NHS and 2) the treatment couldnt be carried out at an NHS hospital and a referral to a 
private hospital was made.
AXA would consider the above and confirm whether the treatment could be covered. This 
was a temporary additional benefit as a result of the pandemic. This was all explained to 
Miss F in AXAs final response letter. Ive seen that AXA had also made contact with Miss 
Fs treating specialist who confirmed that her alcohol dependency needed treating first 
(which was excluded under the policy). And so Im satisfied that AXA did eventually provide 
Miss F with correct information on how to get the treatment she required.
Miss F has said that as AXA provided the temporary benefit, it knew treatment wasnt 
available on the NHS within six weeks. But I havent seen any evidence that Miss F provided 
evidence to AXA that treatment wasnt available within six weeks or that it met the above 
criteria. And so I dont think AXA wrongly declined the claim.
However, as AXA didnt provide Miss F with all of the relevant information about the 
temporary benefit when she called to make a claim, I agree that AXA should pay £750 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. This figure takes into 
account Miss Fs vulnerable state at the time she called AXA to discuss her claim. But also 
that it did ultimately provide correct advice and guidance and so a higher award isnt fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Miss F £750 
compensation. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman