DRN-1880887
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (MAPFRE) didnt extend the term of his travel insurance policy by six months, despite 
telling him that it would do so. 
For the purposes of this decision, all references to Mr F include his representative.
What happened
Mr F held a travel insurance policy with MAPFRE, which covered him for certain risks while 
he was travelling abroad. 
The twelve-month policy term was due to end on 2 February 2019, but Mr F wanted to 
extend it as he planned to remain outside of the UK past this date. He asked MAPFRE on    
2 February 2019 to extend the term for a further six months, because he wanted continuous 
cover until August of that year. 
During an initial call with Mr F, MAPFRE said it would extend the cover and send out the 
policy documents to reflect this. However, when these were received, it came to light that the 
policy hadnt been extended. Rather, the documents showed that the policy ran from 
February 2018 until February 2019. 
Mr F raised this with MAPFRE. It said that the policy had expired on 2 February 2019 and it 
was in fact unable to add additional days on to the policy term. MAPFRE apologised for 
misadvising him about this and explained that instead hed have to purchase a new policy, if 
he wanted to be covered until he returned home. But this new policy could only be for a 
further twelve months  not six. 
Mr F says that he asked MAPFRE to put in place this new policy, which it told him it would 
have to refer to its underwriters first to gain permission to do so. He was expecting a call 
back to find out the outcome of this referral  however he asserts that MAPFRE did not 
contact him to confirm whether cover was going to be put in place. Because of this, Mr F 
chased the response. In the end, a new policy was approved that began on                          
11 February 2019 for a year. So, there was gap between the two policies of over a week.
Mr F raised a complaint, unhappy that he hadnt had continuous cover and MAPFRE had 
given him poor customer service. In light of this, he thought that MAPFRE should refund 
some of the premiums that had been paid. MAPFRE apologised for its error in telling him 
that it could extend the initial policy. And for not contacting him sooner, to tell him the 
decision from its underwriters about the new policy. Nevertheless, it said that the purchase 
of the new policy would always have been necessary regardless. Therefore, it declined to 
refund any premiums. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. She thought that Mr F would always have needed the new policy 
if he wanted to be covered while abroad. And there were no claims that had arisen during 
the period of the gap in cover. So, she didnt recommend that MAPFRE offer any refund of 
premiums.  
Mr F disagrees. He maintains that he was expressly told that he could extend his policy term 
by six months, which essentially means he would only have had to pay another half a years 
premium  but instead, hes been charged for a full year. Because he was misinformed, he 
thinks that MAPFRE should reimburse at least 50% of the premiums as compensation. 
Especially, as he was left uninsured for around nine days in between the two policy terms. 
Because Mr F doesnt agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that MAPFRE incorrectly advised Mr F that he could extend his policy. Its 
also not in question that Mr F opted to take out a subsequent policy, to cover him until 
February 2020. Whats left for me to decide is whether, in light of its miscommunication, 
MAPFRE should refund some (if any) of the premium it charged for cover. To reach my 
decision, Ive considered the impact caused to Mr F.   
Insurers must provide information to consumers thats clear and not misleading. Evidently, 
this obligation wasnt met by MAPFRE during the call it had with Mr F on 2 February 2019. 
That said, although MAPFRE misled Mr F to believe that he could extend the term of his 
existing policy  that doesnt necessarily mean its fair for it to be bound to provide the 
extension that it incorrectly advised it would permit. 
I say this because, when weighing up what a business should do to put right what it got 
wrong, our service takes into account what difference that failing made to a consumers 
position. In other words, Ive thought carefully about whether Mr F is worse-off now, as a 
direct result of MAPFREs fault. Because if he is, the general rule of law is that the party 
liable for the breach of duty must compensate the other party for his reasonably foreseeable 
losses. 
Mr Fs submission means that, for this complaint, I must be persuaded that but for 
MAPFREs mistake he couldve avoided being charged a premium for a full years cover. 
And instead, paid a lesser amount because of securing a term of around six months. 
When deciding whether to accept an application for insurance, insurers must fairly assess 
the information represented. Amongst other things, this means that MAPFRE ought to have 
considered Mr Fs request to extend his existing policy based on the information it held about 
him, along with the conditions of the prospective cover e.g. the whereabouts of Mr Fs travel 
plans, any disclosed medical conditions etc. 
Ive seen no compelling evidence that MAPFRE failed to appropriately consider this 
application. As I see it, a decision was made based on what Mr F represented when the 
existing policy was agreed, in conjunction with what MAPFRE could reasonably know about 
him  and I can only assume that this information was accurately disclosed in good faith. Ultimately, MAPFRE decided it was not viable for an extension of cover to be granted 
according to the way it underwrites its policies. Ive considered the contract of insurance in 
place when Mr F asked for cover to be extended and Im not persuaded that MAPFRE was 
required to do anything other than consider Mr Fs request as it did. Its for an insurer to 
choose whether to provide cover  including whether to offer an extension to an existing 
policy. In light of this, Im not satisfied that there was a requirement on MAPFRE to grant the 
cover that Mr F wanted. 
With this in mind, its my judgment that either way, Mr F needed to purchase a new annual 
policy if he wished to be covered by MAPFRE for the remaining duration of his travel. 
Consequently, I cannot accept that he is now in a materially worse-off position, because it 
was always going to be necessary to pay for a new policy. Moreover, it strikes me that Mr F 
couldve sourced alternative cover elsewhere, if he thought that the new policy being offered 
did not meet his needs.  
MAPFRE was prepared to offer this new policy, as long as a referral to its underwriters 
permitted it. MAPFRE has also said that it was possible that had it confirmed the cover with 
Mr F sooner the dates of the existing policy and the new policy mightve been aligned 
together to allow for continuous cover. 
Nevertheless, a new policy still needed to be purchased. The only difference being, that this 
couldve potentially started immediately after the end of the first policy, instead of                 
11 February 2019  therefore avoiding any gap in cover. But in any event, nothing happened 
over this nine-day period that would lead me to believe that MAPFRE needs to provide cover 
or indemnify Mr F. No claims have been raised during that span of time. Nor, has Mr F asked 
to be covered for a peril that continuous cover mightve afforded him.
To that end, I must consider that Mr F has entered into a contract of insurance and has 
accordingly paid a premium for that benefit. Overall, I find that I cannot safely conclude that 
hes been put into a position of such detriment as a direct consequence of MAPFREs 
actions or inactions that makes it fair or reasonable to direct MAPFRE to refund any of the 
premiums paid to date. It follows that I wont be directing MAPFRE to do anything differently 
for the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman