DRN-2529650
The complaint
Ms B complains that Takepayments Limited wouldnt cancel a payment terminal hire 
contract for her business.
What happened
Ms B signed a hire agreement with Takepayments on 30 January 2020. She received the 
terminal on 6 February 2020. When a member of staff called her on 7 February 2020 to 
help her set this up she said she did not like the machine as it was outdated, ugly and 
slow. She was offered an upgraded terminal but did not like the appearance of that one 
either. Ms B was unhappy to be told that the cancellation period of five days had expired 
and that Takepayments would not allow her to cancel.
Takepayments said that it had not made any mistake. Ms B had said she believed she had 
14 days to cancel but that was not correct, and it was not responsible for her 
misunderstanding about this. It said that its offer to upgrade the terminal still stood and that 
it would waive any additional costs and fees involved with that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that it was not fair 
that Ms B had not been able to see the terminal before the cancellation period expired. He 
recommended that all the payments and fees be refunded plus simple interest at eight 
percent.
Takepayments did not agree. It said that the terminal it provided to Ms B was commonly 
used and it was not outdated. It was fit for purpose and such terminals were used without 
issue by a great number of its merchants. It would have offered Ms B full training in the
terminal if shed had problems and she could still have received an upgraded one.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 8 January 2021. I set out below what I said.
I understood Ms Bs concern and which in her calls Ive listened to with Takepayments
she says was largely down to the look of the terminal. She hasnt said that she was given 
any assurance by Takepayments about the specific look of the terminal and the model was 
not set out in her agreement. Ms B has referred to being able to look at a picture on the 
representatives phone but that it was difficult to make out. Having looked at pictures of both 
terminals I did think that these are materially different as the previous one she had with 
another provider was for example touch screen. If that feature and look was important then I 
thought that there was an opportunity to establish this before signing the agreement.
The payment for the new terminal was cheaper each month. And over a 12-month 
minimum term Takepayments had offered three months free to cover the termination costs 
from her existing provider. When Ms B raised concerns, it offered an upgraded terminal at 
no extra cost.
I thought it was reasonable to expect Ms B to take some care in signing an agreement for 
her business. I didnt see any evidence she was told other than that the cancellation rights 
were five days, and this is what a notice she was sent said. I also didnt see she was told 
that shed be able to see the terminal within that period. Thats not set out in the 
agreement and the terms say that she would start paying from the date she received the 
terminal. The cancellation rights though were always from the date of signing.
I didnt have a basis to find Takepayments has made a mistake and that it should as Ms B 
says have provided 14 days of cancellation rights. While I thought that there might have 
been a lack of clarity about exactly which terminal she would receive as it was not part of 
the agreement I thought that was overcome with the offer of a free upgrade. So, the issue 
comes down to one of fairness  should she have seen the terminal before she was 
committed. Had she wanted to do so I thought she could have asked to. So, I was not 
persuaded its fair for Takepayments to be required effectively to vary its conditions for an 
agreement that Ms B freely signed for her business and as there is no evidence of any 
misrepresentation to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Takepayments said it agreed with my provisional decision and said it had nothing else to 
add.
Ms B did not agree and said that she was extremely upset by it and she didnt see why 
Takepayments should get away with such behaviour.
She said that her complaint wasnt just that she didnt like the machine but its that everyone 
should be allowed to receive the equipment before the cooling off period has expired. When 
she signed the agreement, she was extremely busy and said she was persuaded into 
signing by the sales representative. He said that it would be fine as there was a cooling off 
period. He did not tell her that this would expire before the equipment was received or that it 
would be five days from that moment. When Takepayments offered the upgrade, she had 
lost faith in it as a company. Ms B says that the agreement says that there is a further 30 day 
cooling off period and so she wants to exercise that. She maintained though that she should 
have been allowed to end the agreement when the equipment was received.
I appreciate Ms Bs strong feelings about what happened. I cannot fairly determine what was 
said when the sales representative visited her business. I need to rely on the documentation. 
Im afraid Ive seen nothing other than five day cooling off period allowed from the date the 
agreement was signed. The other term I think Ms B refers to only says that she could cancel 
with 30 days notice after the agreement had been in place for 18 months (but I dont see it 
was ever intended to be for that long).
I dont doubt that Ms B expected to be able to reject the equipment on receipt. And Im 
thinking about what is fair and reasonable not just what the documentation might say. But I 
remain of the view that she had a reasonable opportunity to see or arrange to see the 
equipment she was hiring - especially if the look of it was important - before signing. And to 
refuse to sign the documentation for her business if as she says she was busy at the time. I 
dont have a reasonable basis to find that Takepayments has made a mistake or ought to 
have done more than it offered to. And so, I know Ms B will remain very disappointed with 
the outcome here.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman