DRN-3489862
The complaint
Mr O says AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited didnt deal properly with a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy and provided poor service.
What happened
Mr O entered a one-way main road from a side road. He told AA that hed checked right, as 
well as left (the direction in which vehicles should have been approaching) before emerging. 
He said the road was clear, but as he joined it, a car travelling the wrong way came from his 
left and the cars collided. AA told him he was at fault for the accident, but Mr O said the 
other driver had broken the law and beached the Highway Code. He didnt think AA had 
taken his account seriously. He said AAs advisors gave him conflicting information, didnt 
make return calls, or reply to his email - and that the process had taken too long. Mr O also 
said AA hadnt mentioned in its reply to his complaint the poor service issues hed raised.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint. She thought it was reasonable for AA to 
conclude that he was at fault, on the basis that - as the damage to the other drivers car was 
to its side  it must have been passing the side road when Mr O emerged from it. AA thought 
that meant Mr O couldnt have checked to his right before entering the main road. The 
investigator didnt think there was evidence of poor service or undue delay on AAs part - 
although she thought calls to him were returned later than Mr O may have expected. 
As Mr O asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability
As the investigator pointed out, the policy allows AA to decide how to settle any claim. We 
only intervene if we think theres evidence that an insurer has acted unreasonably in 
investigating a claim or has reached a perverse conclusion. 
I think its clear why Mr O believes the other driver was at fault, as he was driving the wrong 
way along a one-way road. I think it was reasonable for Mr O to tell AA he believed that the 
other driver had breached the Highway Code and had broken the law. That may be the case, 
but as the other drivers insurer was holding Mr O fully at fault, AA had to decide whether it 
would be able to defend the case should it end up in court as an insurance dispute. 
I think it was reasonable for AA to decide that a court would find that Mr O was negligent in 
emerging from a side road when another car was passing by it. Mr O said hed checked to 
his right, and that it was clear (as expected). So he assumed that the other driver must have 
been speeding. But thats only his opinion, and excess speed cant be proved without 
independent evidence (such as speed camera footage). 
The main road was straight, and AA said the other car was there to be seen. It thought the 
location of the damage to the other car showed it must have been passing the side road 
when Mr O emerged from it. Mr O thinks the other car shouldnt have been there  and I 
think AA would agree with him on that point. But it doesnt mean AA was wrong to conclude 
that Mr O should have avoided colliding with it. Even drivers on a main road have a duty to 
avoid others wrongly entering it - if the circumstances show they have the chance to do so.  
  
Understandably, Mr O isnt happy hes lost his NCD and will be faced with higher premiums. 
Thats the result of having a fault claim on his record. But even if AA had disputed liability, in 
the circumstances here I think the best possible outcome would have been that liability was 
split. And even if the other driver had been found partly to blame, Mr O would still have had a 
fault claim on his record, so his NCD and his premiums would still have been affected.
Poor service
I dont think theres evidence of undue delay by AA in dealing with the claim, especially given 
that Mr O disputed liability, as that always lengthens the process. Mr O isnt happy that AA 
instructed a salvage agent when the dispute was ongoing. But when a vehicle has been 
written-off, it isnt unusual for that to happen, so I dont think AA was at fault.
  
From the calls Ive heard, Mr O was promised calls back several times. As AA was only able 
to supply recordings of seven calls, I cant be sure how many times promised calls werent 
returned (or were returned well after Mr O expected them). But theres evidence that on 14 
July 2021 a call was promised  and Mr O called again on 21 July 2021 to say he hadnt 
received it. I think its also clear from the calls that he wasnt updated by AA as he should 
have been. For example, on 2 August 2021 he called AA and said the garage had just told 
him it wasnt economically viable to repair his car. And it appears that he didnt get a reply to 
his email providing evidence of his account of events in a timely manner. He had to call two 
weeks later to query it. So I think there was some poor contact on AAs part. 
 
During the calls Ive heard, there was some variation between what the advisors told Mr O. 
For example, one advisor said he could have his claim re-assessed, whilst another advisor 
didnt mention it. But I dont think the information given (or not given) in those calls caused a 
significant problem, or had an impact on the outcome of the claim.  
In summary
In my opinion, AA acted reasonably in holding Mr O at fault for the accident, especially given 
the poor prospects of success it thought it would have in defending his position in court, 
regardless of the other drivers behaviour. But I think AA could have provided better service 
to him  and that it should have addressed all the issues hed raised when it sent him its 
response to his complaint.  However, I dont think theres enough evidence of poor service 
(or of its impact on Mr O) to justify upholding his complaint. 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, especially in terms of the liability issue 
thats at the heart of his complaint, but also because he was frustrated by the poor service. I 
understand why he thinks AA didnt act entirely in his interests, but taking everything into 
account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require it to take any further action. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman