DRN-1266869
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs R bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Rs sole 
name and gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the 
available evidence and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds says its more likely than not that the optional nature of the PPI was verbally 
explained in good time before the sale was concluded. I cant know what was said in the 
meeting, so I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs R. But Lloyds has been 
able to provide the PPI application form and direct debit mandate that Mr R signed. Mr and 
Mrs Rs representative says there was no indication on the application form that the policy 
was optional. But it was a separate form to their application for further borrowing. To me that 
suggests its most likely Lloyds made clear it was a separate product.  And theres nothing 
on the form that I think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs R to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds didnt make it clear 
the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R didnt agree to take it out for Mr R.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to make sure it was right for him. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr R has told us he was 
entitled to less than three months sick pay, and then statutory sick pay. The PPI would have 
paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident 
and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs Rs 
representative says the policy wasnt suitable as it had a 60-day deferral period, and they 
would be unlikely to be able to cover that period. I accept Mr Rs work benefits were limited 
but Mr and Mrs R had borrowed quite a large sum over a long period secured on their home. 
Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think its most likely in their circumstances they would have been more concerned about not having any protection 
against long-term unemployment or sickness. So I dont think the deferral period means they 
were wrongly advised. I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs R if Mr R was 
sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible, as their representative says, that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs R all the 
information they needed before they decided to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost 
clear, but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that 
it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of those things (such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing 
medical conditions). Similarly, with the deferral period, this is a typical waiting period for this 
type of cover  it wasnt significant or unusual. So I dont think better information wouldve 
changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman