DRN-3987289
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M received a call from someone claiming to be from Revolut. The caller 
said they had stopped some attempted fraudulent activity on Mr Ms account, but that they 
now needed to close his account and set up a new one for him in order to keep his money 
safe. As the caller knew some personal details about him and sent him a text message that 
appeared on the same thread as other genuine Revolut text messages hed received 
previously, Mr M believed the caller was from Revolut. And so he sent two payments from 
his Revolut account to the new account details the caller gave him, totalling £2,274.18. 
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
The scammer said they would stay on the call while they switched Mr Ms direct debits to his 
new account, but the line eventually dropped. And when Mr M then messaged Revoluts 
customer support chat, they told him he had been the victim of a scam.
Revolut investigated but said it had done everything it could to protect Mr M and his funds. It 
said it had warned him that the account details hed entered didnt match the details on the 
account the money was going to, but Mr M had confirmed he still wanted to make the 
payment. And it said it had contacted the bank the money was sent to, but hadnt been able 
to recover any of the money. So it didnt agree to refund the money Mr M had lost. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think the payments Mr M had 
made were unusual or out of character enough that Revolut ought to have intervened before 
allowing them to go through. And they though Revolut had done enough to try to recover the 
money from the bank it was sent to. So they didnt think Revolut should have to refund the 
money Mr M had lost. Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Mr M 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr M authorised the payments. He accepts he made them 
himself as instructed to by the scammers. So while I recognise that he has been the victim of 
a scam and didnt intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that 
Revolut was obliged to follow his instructions and process the payments. So Mr M isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Mr Ms account safe.
But neither of the payments Mr M made as a result of this scam were for a particularly large 
amount and I dont think either payment was particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared to the previous spending on Mr Ms account. The payments also didnt create a 
particularly suspicious pattern of payments, didnt use up the full available balance in the 
account and didnt leave the balance of the account at an unusual level.
So I think its reasonable Revolut didnt identify that Mr M could be at risk of financial harm 
as a result of these payments, and didnt intervene to ask any further questions before 
allowing the payments to go through.
Ive also considered whether Revolut did enough to try to recover the money Mr M lost, once 
it had been told about the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. But Revoluts records show it contacted the 
bank the money was sent to within a reasonable timeframe and was told there was no 
money left to be recovered. So I think Revolut has done all wed expect to try to recover the 
money.
I sympathise with the position Mr M has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Revolut has acted unreasonably or that anything I 
would reasonably have expected it to do would have prevented this scam. So I dont think it 
would be fair to require Revolut to refund the money Mr M has lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 Alan Millward
Ombudsman