DRN-2572896
The complaint
Mrs S and the estate of Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-
sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Mrs S and the late Mr H 
in 2002 in connection with a loan secured on their home. The policy provided cover for Mr H 
if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Halifax has paid a partial refund for this loan. Thats because the borrowing was more than it 
shouldve been, because it covered PPI that Mr H and Mrs S had taken out on a previous 
loan, and which was subsequently found to be mis-sold.
For the purpose of this complaint, I am only looking at whether Mr H and Mrs Ss PPI on 
their secured loan was mis-sold. I wont be making any findings about the partial refund that 
Halifax has paid.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S and the estate of Mr Hs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr H and Mrs Ss needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr H and Mrs S the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mrs S is worse off as a result. That is, would she and Mr H have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs S and the estate of Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my 
reasons below.
Mrs S says she doesnt remember PPI being discussed when she and Mr H took out their 
loan, and that they wouldnt have agreed to buy it. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr H and Mrs S and 
Halifax when the loan was arranged. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I note that the loan agreement Mr H and Mrs S signed included a section about PPI. This 
was completed to show that they wanted the cover. There was a box in the same section 
that wouldve been completed if they hadnt wanted to buy the PPI.
Ive noted everything Mrs S has said. But without anything else to support what shes told 
me, I havent been able to safely conclude that Halifax didnt make her and Mr H aware that 
the PPI was optional. 
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr H and Mrs S to take out the PPI. Based on what Ive seen 
of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them. I say this because:
- Mr H was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mrs S says Mr H was entitled to generous benefits from his employer if he was off work 
sick, and that they were in a secure financial position. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mr Hs employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mr H and Mrs S could use Mr Hs employer benefits to pay for 
other expenses if he couldnt work. 
So I think Mr H and Mrs S would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.  
- Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs S needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- The policy cost was set out on the loan agreement that Mr H and Mrs S signed. So I think 
they wouldve known how much they would be paying for it and found it acceptable. The 
policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr H and 
Mrs S would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H and Mrs S would have 
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still 
have taken out the policy.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman