DRN-3780852
The complaint
Mr E has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under the legal expenses part of his insurance policy after he was involved in a 
car accident. He was unhappy with the level of service provided and that he wasnt given an 
alternative solicitor.
What happened
Mr E needed to use his legal cover under his motor insurance policy after he was involved in 
an accident. But he was unhappy with the level of service the appointed solicitors provided  
and that AXA didnt provide him with an alternative solicitor, so Mr E had to appoint his own 
solicitor. This caused Mr E stress and hours of wasted time.  
When Mr E complained to AXA it explained that it only used one firm of solicitors and as Mr 
E wasnt happy with them he would have to appoint his own solicitor on a no win, no fee 
basis. It did offer him £100 compensation in acknowledgement of the poor service he 
received. But Mr E remained unhappy with this, so he complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She endorsed AXAs 
offer of £100 compensation, but she thought it should pay Mr Es own appointed legal 
representatives costs as the hourly rate (£150 plus VAT) was reasonable and in line with 
what AXA would ordinarily pay in any event. 
As AXA and Mr E accepted this position the case closed. However, Mr E approached this 
Service again as AXA hadnt really communicated with his solicitor as agreed. And when our 
investigator liaised with AXA its communication was slow, confusing and matters continued 
to be delayed. So, Mr E asked for a final decision and the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the position has been agreed between both parties I dont propose to go over the finer 
detail and complaint again here. I will simply focus on whether the agreed approach is fair. 
And having considered everything afresh I agree with the approach taken by our investigator 
and agreed by Mr E and AXA.
Given this, I agree it seems fair for AXA to pay Mr Es legal costs as long as they dont 
exceed the amount its own solicitors would ordinarily charge. And that it should pay £100 
compensation for the way the claim was handled.  
It is disappointing AXA havent communicated properly with Mr Es solicitor having already 
agreed to and I would expect it to do so now and to expedite this accordingly - it should be 
proactive in engaging with Mr Es solicitor now. As such, I endorse the position taken to date 
and require AXA to pay Mr E £100 by way of compensation if it hasnt already done so. And 
ensure it liaises with Mr Es appointed solicitor and pay their costs. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to pay Mr Es legal costs and pay £100 compensation if it hasnt already paid this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman