DRN-2842125
The complaint
Mr R, complains on behalf of R, a limited company, about Barclays Bank Plcs handling of 
two chargeback claims made against R.
What happened
Barclays provides merchant services to R, including card payment terminals. Barclays 
received two chargeback requests and took the amounts from R.
Mr R, a director of R, complained to Barclays. He said that the two chargebacks were made 
to two separate accounts, and that funds deposited in one of those were paid to a third party, 
G. He said that it was unfair for Barclays to take the funds paid into that account from R. He 
also said that in any case the chargebacks should not have been successful.
When Barclays rejected the complaint, Mr R referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
consider that Barclays had done anything wrong. She thought that the rules of the 
chargeback scheme meant that that in the circumstances Barclays had acted fairly by taking 
the money from Rs account. And she thought that there was enough information available to 
R for its representatives to have reasonably been aware that the second account (where 
funds were paid to G) was set up in such a way that chargebacks would be paid from Rs 
account. As R didnt accept this, it asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that R has made a number of arguments as to why the chargebacks shouldnt 
have been successful, and why Barclays should have defended them. Its been suggested 
that there was fraudulent use of Rs terminals, and also that the services for which the 
chargebacks were raised were used by the party making the request. Im not in a position to 
comment on these points. What I need to consider is whether Barclays followed the correct 
process on receiving the chargeback requests.
Barclays dont set the rules of the chargeback scheme, but from what Ive seen, its followed 
the process correctly.
The transactions which were disputed had been made on Rs terminals without the 
cardholder present. The rules of the scheme suggest that where a disputed transaction is 
made without the cardholder present, there is an assumption that the chargeback will be 
successful unless evidence can be provided to show that the cardholder did consent to the 
transaction. 
In this case, Barclays asked R for further information about the disputed transactions and 
any additional evidence, such as signed disclaimers or declarations, to assist Barclays in 
defending the chargebacks. This wasnt received and so Barclays was unable to defend the 
chargebacks. I cant say that this was incorrect, or that Barclays unreasonably failed to 
defend the chargebacks. 
As Ive concluded that Barclays acted reasonably in taking the funds from the chargebacks, I 
now need to consider whether it acted fairly in respect of the second chargeback. This was 
the one where the funds had been originally deposited in the account accessible by G. The 
exact details of the relationship between R and G arent relevant, but whats important is that 
R was able to direct payments made through one of its terminals to the account which was 
controlled by G. 
The original agreement completed by R when the agreement linked to this account was 
entered into with Barclays isnt available. Im aware that Mr Rs position is that R wasnt 
aware of the arrangements or obligations placed on it. I have seen a sample agreement from 
Barclays which would have taken the same format. This agreement asks how chargebacks 
are to be handled, either by being added to monthly statements for the merchant services, or 
on a case by case basis. 
The exact detail of when chargebacks would be taken in this case isnt significant. Looking at 
the sample agreement, all chargebacks (whenever taken) are to be charged to the same 
account that the charges and fees are taken from. It isnt disputed that in this case, that 
account is Rs. 
R said it was unaware that the account had been set up in this way, but statements had 
been sent to it. The statements included fees and charges linked to the services provided to 
R by Barclays, and these charges were taken from Rs account in line with its agreement 
with Barclays. I think its fair to say that if it had any queries about the service it was paying 
for, it could have asked Barclays for details of how the account worked. By being sent 
statements, its reasonable to say that they knew of the account and could have found out 
what obligations it had connected to the account. 
I conclude that the account in questions was, on balance, set up in such a way that any 
chargebacks made would be taken from the same account that fees were charged to. And R 
was aware of the account and could reasonably have established its liabilities and 
obligations arising from the account. 
 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman