DRN-4249072
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Smart Currency Exchange Limited handled his currency 
contract.
What happened
In 2021 Mr B decided to sell his home in France. He wanted to transfer the money to his UK 
accounts and so he was in need of a currency exchange service. He was introduced to 
Smart Currency Exchange Limited (SCEL) by his estate agent and he opened an account 
with it on 16 November 2021. 
On 23 November 2021, during a call with SCEL, Mr B agreed to convert €500,000 to GBP 
with SCEL. At the rate SCEL was offering that day, Mr B was told he would get £410,375. 
This agreement formed a contract with SCEL and it proceeded to purchase the GBP that 
day. This ensured that the rate of exchange on that day was secured for when the sale of Mr 
Bs house took place over the following weeks or months  this was a forward contract. 
Mr B was then required to pay SCEL a £25,000 deposit.
However, in the days that followed this call Mr B began to have concerns about the contract, 
SCELs sales tactics and the exchange rate hed been offered. 
Mr B refused to pay the deposit and complained to SCEL. He said hed been persuaded to 
commit to the contract urgently by SCEL. He said he felt bullied, harassed and thought 
SCEL had taken advantage of his vulnerability; Mr B noted that he was in his 70s and had a 
wife who was terminally ill (which is what had prompted the sale of the property in France).  
Mr B also didnt feel hed been offered a fair rate. 
SCEL provided a response to the complaint on 24 December 2021. It didnt uphold Mr Bs 
concerns noting hed agreed the exchange rate during the call on 23 November 2021. It said 
it would take on board Mr Bs feedback regarding pressurised selling as it felt Mr B could 
have been given more time prior to the booking of the contract but SCEL disagreed that it 
had taken advantage of his vulnerability. 
On the same day, 24 December 2021, Mr B rang to cancel the contract. The difference in 
exchange rate on the day the contract was cancelled meant that SCEL lost €13,762.17. 
SCEL advised Mr B that he was liable for this loss and asked him to pay this amount. 
Mr B remained unhappy and on 20 July 2022 he brought his complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator looked into the merits of the complaint but didnt uphold it. They noted Mr B 
had agreed to the contract and didnt think the evidence showed Mr B was pressurised into 
doing so. Mr B disagreed with our Investigator and so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. 
I noted that the complaint had been brought to our Service over six months after SCEL had 
responded to Mr B and I considered whether our Service had jurisdiction to look into this 
complaint. After doing so, I was satisfied that SCELs response didnt meet the requirements 
of a final response letter as outlined in the rules that the Financial Ombudsman Service must 
follow, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. For this reason, I decided I could 
look into the merits of the complaint which Ive gone on to consider below.
When considering the case, I asked SCEL for more call recordings so I could get a complete 
picture of the sales process. I also asked Mr B for more information about when and why he 
developed concerns about the contract. Mr B told me that in the conversation with SCEL on 
23 November 2021 when he agreed to proceed, he was feeling very uncomfortable with the 
situation and wanted time to take further advice from the estate agent  something he told 
SCEL. Mr B said he had a creeping sense that he was not dealing with people advising him 
in his best interests and that his vulnerability and anxiety were being taken advantage of. 
Mr B explained that he later sold the house and didnt book a forward contract but purchased 
a SPOT trade which better suited his requirements and offered better value for money. 
Mr B felt this contract offered poor value for money, something he noted the FCA were to 
tackle with the Consumer Duty.
I then shared my provisional findings with both parties so they had the opportunity to make 
any comments or provide further evidence before a final decision was reached. In brief, my 
provisional findings said that SCEL had acted fairly in the circumstances and I was satisfied 
the calls didnt indicate SCEL bullied or harassed Mr B. 
SCEL didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional findings.
Mr B stressed that he had been treated unfairly in this matter. Mr B made a number of points 
including:
In other types of transaction there is a cooling off period and said he was not aware 
or given any warning in previous discussions that the currency would be bought 
immediately.
If hed been given more time to refer to more knowledgeable people (as requested), 
he would not have continued with the contract. 
Mr B was being polite and would use phrases like wanting to speak to the estate 
agent to try to gain space to take advice.
He did not take advice and then change his mind as suggested in my provisional 
decision  he said he did not want to proceed as he felt he was being bullied by 
SCEL.  
Whilst Mr B recognised that he must accept a certain responsibility for his actions, he was of 
the view that SCEL were to blame for their bullish behaviour and not giving him time to 
reach a proper decision. So he felt a fairer outcome to the complaint would be a 
compromise. 
Ive considered these further comments and Im now in a position to issue a final decision on 
this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reiterate, as mentioned in my jurisdiction decision, that I empathise with the 
incredibly difficult position Mr B and his wife found themselves in around the time of this 
complaint.
Before I begin, I note Mr B has made reference to the Consumer Duty, which is a standard 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which sets clear and high standards of 
consumer protection across financial services, requiring businesses to put customer needs first. The Consumer Duty applies to open products and services from 31 July 2023 onwards 
and it is not retrospective. Which means that Im not able to apply this principle to Mr Bs 
complaint. That being said, I have still considered whether SCEL acted reasonably and fairly 
in all the circumstances, taking into account Mr Bs vulnerability at that time.
Mr B signed a contract with SCEL. According to the terms and conditions of that agreement 
SCEL was entitled to charge Mr B for the losses it incurred when he failed to pay the deposit 
and wanted the contract cancelled. Mr B doesnt dispute that he agreed to the contract and 
asked for it to be cancelled. However, he feels SCEL bullied and harassed him into 
committing to the contract in the first place, taking advantage of his vulnerability. So, Mr B 
doesnt think its fair that hes charged for this loss  if SCEL hadnt pressurised him, Mr B 
doesnt feel hed have committed to the contract and so no loss would have occurred.
So, Ive listened to the calls that Mr B had with SCEL  including the call on 23 November 
2021 when the contract was agreed (the contract call) and the calls in the days leading up 
to this. Having done so Im not persuaded that SCEL bullied, harassed or attempted to take 
advantage of Mr Bs vulnerability. Id firstly note that in none of the calls Ive heard was 
SCEL told the full details of Mr Bs circumstances. But even if SCEL was aware of Mr Bs 
vulnerability, whilst Id expect it to be sensitive to this, I wouldnt expect it to make 
assumptions about Mr Bs needs or prevent Mr B from proceeding if he wished to do so. 
The contract call took 27 minutes. In advance of this there were a further three telephone 
calls between SCEL and Mr B or his wife over the course of a week. In these calls the 
services that SCEL offered were discussed and Mr B and his wife had the opportunity to ask 
questions and go away and discuss things. Given this, I dont think the sale was rushed and 
Id describe the overall tone of all of these calls as conversational. 
Within the contract call Mr B indicated that in principle he wanted to go ahead with the deal 
and the SCEL advisor again gave Mr B multiple opportunities to ask questions about the 
contract. At no point in the call did the advisor stress the urgency of the deal or suggest that 
Mr B would lose out if he didnt conclude things that day. There was discussion between 
Mr B and the advisor about the market trajectory being adverse for Mr Bs purposes but also 
discussion about the fact this wasnt guaranteed. Indeed, Mr B was the first to raise the issue 
of the downward market trajectory during this call and he indicated that his wife had done 
some research on how previous reported rises in interest rates had impacted the 
performance of GBP. The market trajectory was also discussed in earlier calls and its clear 
that SCEL was the first to suggest that this could be adverse for Mr Bs purposes. But Im 
satisfied that SCEL explained the facts behind this opinion and made clear to Mr B that the 
market was unpredictable. The advisor suggested Mr B go away and look at the charts 
himself and Mr Bs comments in the later contract call indicate his wife did exactly that. 
So, Im not persuaded the advisor placed undue pressure on Mr B or provided unfair or 
misleading information. Whilst its clear from the call Mr B hadnt ever used a service like 
this, he also asked questions and left the impression that he understood what he was 
agreeing to as he was able to accurately summarise the crux of the agreement to his wife in 
the background during the call where the contract was agreed.
That being said, during the contract call Mr B did raise the fact hed like to speak to the 
estate agent helping him with the sale of the property before going ahead. This was raised 
three times during the call. Given Mr Bs concerns about this, Ive considered the nature of 
these exchanges. 
The first time Mr B explained he didnt get a chance to speak to the estate agent prior to the 
call and said he wanted to touch base with her to understand timeframes. Mr B also said I 
dont suppose that really affects thisbut from our point of view were also interested in 
knowing the timeframe. The advisor then explained that with the forward contract the timescales dont matter too much as they could extend the contract, so there was no rush on 
contacting the estate agent.
The second time the estate agent was brought up by Mr B was following a discussion about 
how much money they wanted to exchange. Mr B explained the sale cost of the house 
included selling and notaries fees, so these would need to be deducted and he wasnt sure 
about precise amounts. The advisor suggested working on an amount of €500,000 and said 
that if it was less, SCEL would cancel this off at zero cost to Mr B and if it was more, he 
could book a separate contract. Mr B then said that the estate agent needs to be rowed into 
all this because shes the only one that really knowsthe timing of it all, but if were saying 
that actually we dont think thats particularly relevant anyway to that unless we had to restart 
with somebody else and go on and then maybe in the spring the whole market could be 
different, quite radically different. The advisor then said Mr B should be okay on it as if the 
contract needed extending, SCEL could do so at zero cost.
So, in these two initial interactions Mr B explained he wanted to contact the estate agent to 
understand the timings of the sale and the advisor explained that timings wouldnt affect the 
contract they were arranging. And each time Mr B acknowledged that timings didnt affect or 
werent relevant to the contract and the conversation moved on. I dont think the information 
the advisor was providing Mr B was inaccurate and I dont feel pressure was placed on Mr B 
 had he still wanted to contact the estate agent prior to agreeing the contract he could have 
done so.
The last time the estate agent was discussed was toward the end of the call where the 
requirements and rates had been agreed and the advisor had read out the terms of the 
agreement and was asking whether Mr B agreed to proceed. Mr B then said hed like to 
speak to the estate agent over the phone to check she had no objections. The advisor then 
said that Mr B could do that, but hed then have to go through the agreement again and set 
up a new contract as the rates were constantly changing. The advisor said they were 
partnered with the estate agents organisation so she was aware. Mr B explained he didnt 
want to talk about the deal but to check there hadnt been any changes in relation to the 
house sale. Mr B said he cant imagine that any objections would be raised given the estate 
agent had put them in touch. The advisor said its up to you guys, I dont want to put any 
pressure on you or anything, Im just conscious that well have to go through this process all 
over again when the contracts ready. The advisor then said that hed suggest getting the 
contract in place, hed email it across and then Mr B could email it straight to the estate 
agent as this is the usual process. Mr B then agreed.
I dont think the advisor pressurised Mr B in the last interaction, but I do think he left Mr B 
with the incorrect impression that emailing the estate agent after agreeing the contract was 
the same as speaking to her beforehand. And of course its not, as the contract couldnt be 
cancelled without the possibility of incurring costs. So, I think he could have been clearer 
here. That being said, Ive not seen any evidence that persuades me that speaking to the 
estate agent would have changed things for Mr B in any event. As the advisor correctly 
observed, the estate agent introduced Mr B to SCEL. Ive also seen no evidence to suggest 
the estate agent was providing Mr B advice on the currency exchange options available to 
him; what Mr B wanted to discuss was timescales for the sale and Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest there were developments here that would have impacted the currency exchange 
contract. Given this, I dont think its likely shed have had any concerns about the contract or 
its suitability.
Im conscious that in response to my provisional decision, Mr B has said hed use phrases 
like wanting to speak to the estate agent as a way of trying to gain space to take advice 
because he was feeling bullied. And of course, if Mr B wouldnt have ever spoken to the 
estate agent, then it doesnt matter whether shed have changed his mind. Mr Bs argument here seems to be that if hed been given more time to speak to the estate agent, he actually 
would have used this time to reflect and seek financial advice from elsewhere. And this 
means he wouldnt have proceeded with the contract.
But I think there were points in the contract call where Mr B could have paused the process if 
thats what he really wanted to do  for example when the advisor said its up to you guys, I 
dont want to put any pressure on you or anything, Im just conscious that well have to go 
through this process all over again when the contracts ready. If what Mr B really wanted 
was time to seek further advice, I think he had opportunities to do this. So, Im not persuaded 
by Mr Bs testimony here.
Mr B also told us he was not aware or given any warning in previous discussions that the 
currency would be bought immediately. However, I have heard that SCEL told Mrs B this in 
the call on 17 November and Mr B was told this on the call on 22 November  in both of 
these calls SCEL explained how the forward contract would work. So, Im satisfied Mr B was 
made aware of this at that time, even if its something he cannot now recall.
Finally, I think its important to highlight here that this wasnt an advised sale by SCEL. SCEL 
offered Mr B two types of currency exchange contract. Its role wasnt to provide advice to its 
customers on what type of currency exchange option, out of all the options available on the 
market, would best suit their circumstances and purposes. So, what Id have expected SCEL 
to have done is to have clearly explained the nature of the contract it was offering Mr B  to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. And based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think SCEL did this. 
For all of these reasons, Im not persuaded that SCEL has done anything wrong here. Which 
means I wont be asking it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman