DRN-3111445
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided him with incorrect and misleading 
information when he got in touch with the bank to ask about receiving funds.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H telephoned Lloyds to ask the bank how he could receive a large 
amount of funds in cash from another account holder, without an actual transaction passing 
through his own bank account. Mr H also enquired about using a bankers draft or cheque to 
receive the payment in cash.
Mr H wasnt happy with the advice he received and raised a complaint. In its response, 
Lloyds set out its faster payment limits as well its process for large withdrawals made in 
branch. Lloyds explained that it doesnt offer cashiers cheques and that bankers drafts 
need to be made out to a named payee. The bank assured Mr H that its staff did their best to 
answer his questions over the phone. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr H asked this service for an independent view on this matter. One of 
our investigators concluded that Lloyds had responded to Mr Hs questions appropriately. 
The investigator noted that Mr Hs understanding of how bankers drafts work may have 
been different but felt that Lloyds had reasonably explained its process in relation to this. 
Mr H didnt agree, referring to the regulators rules and the banks lack of published 
information about bankers drafts. Mr H remains of the view that Lloyds understanding is still 
incorrect.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mr H will be disappointed to hear 
this, so Ill explain why.
Before I do so, I think its important to reiterate our investigators comments on what this 
service has the power to investigate. Much of Mr Hs concerns seem to relate to how Lloyds 
handled his complaint following the initial telephone call. Complaint handling isnt considered 
a financial service, so it doesnt fall under this services remit to investigate any of Mr Hs 
concerns that relate to how Lloyds handled his complaint. Our investigator has already 
pointed out the relevant case law, so I wont be commenting on this issue further.
Lloyds provided copies of the calls between Mr H and the bank from around the time. I can 
see from the initial call that Mr H explained that he wanted to receive a large sum of money 
from another Lloyds account holder, which he wanted transferred to him in cash. Mr H 
explained that he didnt want a transaction to pass through his bank account. The Lloyds 
representative explained that the only way to do this was for the third party to hand the cash 
to Mr H directly.
Mr H enquired about using a cheque or bankers draft as an alternative and seemed 
adamant that the third party could make this out to cash so he could withdraw the funds in 
branch. Lloyds explained during the call that a cheque or bankers draft would need to have 
a named payee on it and any made out to cash can only be used by the actual account 
holder. From what Ive heard, the Lloyds representative explained the banks processes in a 
straightforward and clear manner, and I havent heard anything that suggests to me that the 
service Mr H received during this call was unreasonable.
Mr H ultimately disagrees with how Lloyds deals with bankers drafts and he points to there 
being limited information about this on Lloyds website and other customer facing literature. 
But I cant fairly conclude that the bank has done something wrong here. Its not for me to tell 
Lloyds how to conduct its business and the processes it follows. I can only consider whether 
it has done something to treat Mr H unfairly  and, if so, what it should do to put things right. 
Although the bank may indeed have limited literature about bankers drafts  when Mr H 
asked about this, Lloyds provided the relevant information straight away. So I think Lloyds 
acted fairly when it did this.
Mr H seemingly has a different interpretation based on his past experience. I cant say for 
certain whether the process may have been different previously. But Mr H having a different 
interpretation of how bankers drafts work isnt a persuasive reason for me to say that Lloyds 
has acted unfairly.
I understand Mr H later engaged in multiple telephone calls with Lloyds, both about this 
issue and his concerns regarding complaint handling. It seems that, at times, Lloyds position 
on this matter may have been communicated by the bank in uncertain terms. But, given 
Mr H was given a clear answer the first time he called Lloyds about this and that it was later 
reiterated in the banks final response to his complaint  Im of the view that Mr H had a fair 
understanding on how Lloyds handles bankers drafts. The dispute that remained from then 
seems to me to be based on the fact that Mr H simply disagreed with the banks position.
In summary, its my view that Lloyds explained things clearly to Mr H the first time he 
enquired about receiving the funds. In my opinion, the bank responded to Mr Hs questions 
in a reasonable manner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman