DRN-3138791
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed his mortgage to be paid using an 
overdraft and didnt make him aware of this. He asks that additional interest charges are 
refunded.
What happened
Mr K took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2009. He also took out a mortgage current 
account (MCA), with an overdraft which was also secured. Taking out the MCA was a 
condition of the mortgage. 
Mr K had taken out the mortgage on a property for a family member to live in. The intention 
was that the family member would make the mortgage payments. Mr K spent a lot of time 
overseas but says he checked the mortgage account and could see it was paid each month. 
He says he didnt know payments were coming from the MCA and creating an overdraft. By 
the time he knew about this the overdraft was about £72,000.
Mr K says Barclays should have stopped this happening and alerted him to the problem. He 
says hes incurred additional interest, and he still owes the same amount as he first 
borrowed. He says the mortgage was mis-sold.
I wrote to Mr K and Barclays saying there are parts of Mr Ks complaint that we cant look 
into as they werent brought to us within the time limits set out in our rules. This included the 
sale of the mortgage in 2009. But we can look into Mr Ks complaint about the mortgage 
being paid from the MCA from May 2014, and that Barclays should have done more to alert 
him about this. And we can also consider Mr Ks complaint that Barclays didnt do enough to 
help after he became aware of the problem in 2018. 
Our investigator looked into these parts of Mr Ks complaint and said the information given to 
Mr K explained how the MCA worked. Barclays sent regular statements that showed the 
transactions on the MCA. He didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree. He said despite making significant overpayments he now has a debt he 
cant pay without selling the property. He says the overdraft increased from less than 
£30,000 in 2014 and it would be a great help if some of this was written off. Mr K said he 
wouldnt be in this situation if hed been offered a traditional mortgage and it was wrong and 
irresponsible for Barclays to continue to increase the overdraft, which the unusual structure 
disguised. Mr K said Barclays is responsible for some of the debt.
Mr K said he contacted Barclays about the debt. But instead of discussing a new financial 
solution (ideally face to face at a branch) Barclays asked for income and expenditure 
information from him. He says this is difficult to provide due to his age, being retired on a 
limited income and his health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K took out a mortgage of about £112,000 in 2009, on a repayment basis. It was a 
condition of the mortgage that he also took out the MCA, with a reserve facility (essentially a 
secured overdraft). As the mortgage balance decreased the amount that could be borrowed 
under the reserve facility increased. There was no requirement to make monthly payments 
to reduce amounts borrowed under the MCA. However, it has to be repaid when the 
mortgage is redeemed.
I think the MCA worked as described in the documents. And Barclays sent statements to 
Mr K setting out the mortgage balance and the MCA balance  that is, the amount of the 
overdraft. Mr K accepts that the MCA worked as intended. His concern is that due to the way 
the product works he didnt know mortgage payments were being funded by the MCA. He 
says Barclays should have alerted him to this sooner.
Had Mr K been making monthly payments himself  as would usually be the case  hed 
have known where the payments were coming from and how they were funded. Here, it was 
intended that the family member living in the property would make mortgage payments. Mr K 
checked the mortgage account and saw payments were being made. He didnt check the 
balance on the MCA. The problem here isnt that mortgage payments were made from the 
MCA. The problem is that there werent enough payments into the MCA to cover the 
payments going out. This resulted in an overdraft. And because the MCA was in Mr Ks 
name hes responsible for the overdraft, which is secured on his property.
The statements Barclays sent to Mr K for the mortgage and MCA show payments were 
made to the mortgage account from the MCA. It appears from the statements that Mr Ks 
family member initially made payments into the MCA. However, from quite early in the 
mortgage term, there werent enough payments into the MCA to cover all of the payments 
going out, including the mortgage payments. The resulting overdraft increased over the 
years, including as Mr K says since 2014.
Mr K says Barclays should have alerted him to a problem. Ultimately of course it did, in 2018 
when it said it wouldnt increase the MCA overdraft any further. But Barclays sent statements 
before this which showed payments into and out of MCA and the resulting balance. I dont 
think its fair to say that Barclays didnt make Mr K aware of what was happening. 
I must also take into account that Barclays wouldnt have known what arrangements Mr K 
had made with his family for payment of the mortgage. It wouldnt have known that a family 
member was supposed to be paying the mortgage, and even if it did, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Barclays to monitor this arrangement.
I dont think its fair to require Barclays to write off all or part of the debt owed due to the way 
the MCA was used. When Mr K took out the mortgage he agreed to repay it. I appreciate 
that Mr K expected a family member to make these payments while they lived in the 
property. I dont think the fact that this didnt happen was due to an error by Barclays. I also 
think Barclays was entitled to apply interest to the outstanding balance, in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the accounts. 
I sympathise with the position Mr K is in. It must have been very upsetting to find out the 
amount he owes hadnt reduced as hed expected, the debt has simply moved to another 
account. Mr K says Barclays should have offered help with the debt  such as freezing 
interest, writing off some of the debt or agreeing a settlement. I dont think I can fairly require 
Barclays to do this simply because of the way the MCA was used. But Mr K now finds 
himself with a debt to pay and it does have to treat him fairly. In order to do so, Barclays 
needs information about Mr Ks circumstances.Barclays notes record discussions about the support requested by Mr K. I can see that 
Barclays asked for information from Mr K about his circumstances so it could consider this. 
Its clear from Barclays notes how distressed Mr K was when he found out about the 
overdraft, and thats understandable. Nonetheless, I think its fair for Barclays to ask for 
information from Mr K about his circumstances to help it assess what support it might offer. 
Barclays notes say that Mr K has moved into the property and will sell another property to 
repay the Barclays mortgage. It seems Mr K has sold his other property and cleared his 
arrears. I dont know if Mr K is now in a position to repay the MCA overdraft, or if he hasnt 
yet repaid the debt as hes hoping to agree a settlement with Barclays. I understand why 
Mr K feels the situation hes in is unfair. But Mr K borrowed the money and he does have to 
repay it. The arrangements he made with a family member didnt achieve this, as expected, 
but I dont think that was due to an error by Barclays. Of course, Barclays might choose to 
agree a settlement with Mr K  thats a commercial decision for Barclays. But for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to do so.
If Mr K is unable to repay the debt, Id urge him to contact Barclays and provide the 
information it requests with the aim of reaching a suitable arrangement. And Id remind 
Barclays of its duty to treat Mr K fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman