DRN-3824816
The complaint
Mr M complains Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot have treated him 
unfairly when attempting to collect debts he has with them.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and my thoughts on 
that. Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Two accounts are the subject of this complaint:
A loan account taken out with a company Ill call L, in June 2019, which had an 
outstanding balance of £2,853 when sold.
A credit card account taken out with a company Ill call R, in 7 June 2007, which had 
an outstanding balance of £5,717.24 when sold.
Mr M raised a number of concerns during his interactions with Cabot:
Cabot sends thousands of letters daily but wont email him when he asks them to.
He doesnt want to pay the £1 fee for his Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) request, 
where hes provided information about the accounts, by bank transfer  as he says 
this could be misconstrued as validating the debt. He also said this was for postage 
but hes not asking them to post the documents.
Hes unhappy Cabot are telling him to go into a crowded post office during a 
pandemic when everyone has been advised to avoid crowded places.
He wants confirmation his old address has been removed, and his new address 
added.
More than one company has contacted him regarding a debt which he says is 
harassing, and theyre harassing him for a debt thats statute barred.
Cabot have breached section 40 of the Administration of Justice Act 1970 by 
instructing a debt collector to visit his home demanding payment which is a criminal 
offence.
Cabot said:
They couldnt see theyd said they wouldnt email him  only that the emails would be 
encrypted for the safety of Mr Ms data.
The £1 fee is a statutory fee the CCA allows them to charge for processing the 
documents, its not a postage fee. And the £1 fee wouldnt be deemed as a payment 
towards the account, as its the fee only.
They hadnt said he needed to go to a post office, theyd just given him options of 
how he could pay the £1 fee  which included postal order, cheque or bank transfer.
While they can update Mr Ms address, theyll keep his personal data for as long as 
hes a customer of Cabot. They said this generally means keeping records for six 
years and three months.
They purchased Mr Ms account from L, on 23 October 2020 and confirmed this to 
him in writing on 16 November 2020 by sending him a Notice of Assignment (NOA). 
They said because of this, theyve fulfilled their legal obligations to him, and are the 
proper owner of the debt with any monies now due to them.
Mr Ms reference to section 40 of the Administration of Justice Act 1970 is erroneous 
and the provisions of this Act dont apply in his circumstances. They said theyd not 
harassed him, and the use of doorstep agents to reconnect him with them or for the 
collection of debts is a legitimate course of action.
And, from reviewing Mr Ms account with R, theyve said the account was opened 
7 June 2007, and the last payment made in March 2018  so the account isnt statute 
barred. They added in the last six months they attempted to contact Mr M by text four 
times for this account. Theyd not send any letters, emails, or made any calls  so 
this didnt amount to harassment.
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked us to look into things  but explained the harassment aspect 
is his main concern. He said using three companies to collect a debt is harassment 
according to a number of organisations.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms concerns regarding the harassment  and found 
Cabot hadnt done anything wrong as they hadnt used different debt companies to collect 
the same debt at the same time.
Mr M didnt accept the outcome and asked how we could have decided Cabot werent 
harassing him when several charities who deal with debt matters say it is. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other issues
When raising his concerns to Cabot, Mr M raised a number of other issues  hes asked that 
we focus on his harassment complaint but hasnt explicitly said he didnt want us to consider 
the other issues.
So, Ive briefly commented on them for completeness:
Ive not seen anything to say Cabot wouldnt email Mr M has asked, and have 
seemingly emailed him with the information hes asked for in relation to the two 
accounts with L and R.
I didnt see they had told him to go into a post office, it was more they offered Mr M a 
number of options  one of which was to get a postal order to pay the £1 fee.
Mr Ms address was updated.
So, on these points then, Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr M has been treated unfairly. 
As a result of that, Ill move on to considering his main concerns regarding harassment.
Harassment
I can see Mr M has been contacted by three different debt collectors in relation to the two 
accounts. They are:L / FC (this debt collector has been known by two names  but are separate to the 
lender L who Ive referred to in this decision up to this point)
RC
B
Mr M has said its because three debt collectors were contacting him at the same time he 
feels harassed. So, Ive looked at when each debt collector got in touch. For simplicity, Ive 
started with the loan account with L.
The evidence I have shows L / FC got in touch on 1 June 2020. I think its likely L / FC were 
getting in touch at the request of L. I say that because it wasnt until 16 November 2020 that 
Cabot first wrote to Mr M telling him theyd taken over the loan from L  some five months 
before Cabot became the owner of the account. 
That means I cant hold Cabot responsible for anything L / FC may have done on behalf of L 
 because these were actions by other companies than Cabot. Because of this, I wont 
mention this contact from L / FC again.
Between 16 November 2020 when Cabot first got in touch, including the NOA showing they 
now owned this account, to 20 March 2021 they sent Mr M five letters asking him to get in 
touch  one per month.
Ive not seen anything to show Mr M responded to any of these letters. And Cabots next 
letter on 11 April 2021 said as theyd tried to contact him multiple times but been 
unsuccessful, they were going to appoint RC to go to the address they had on file for him. In 
this letter they explained the purpose of this physical visit to Mr Ms last known address is to 
help Mr M get back in touch with them. Given up to this point Cabot hadnt had any replies 
from Mr M to their letters, and they explained the reason for the contact, this doesnt seem 
unreasonable.
RC then wrote to Mr M on 29 April 2021 asking Mr M to get in touch. In this letter, which 
again was about the loan account with L, RC said if Mr M doesnt get in touch within seven 
days theyll visit his property. They explain the purpose of this is to help Mr M engage with 
them to discuss the account and his options for resolving the outstanding debt. So, here, RC 
are also saying they wont come to his property if Mr M gets in touch.
Cabot said RC returned the account to them because they didnt think Mr M was living at the 
address on file anymore. Ive seen in Cabots notes this was 20 May 2021.
So, RC were getting in touch with Mr M between 29 April 2021 and carried out a visit 
sometime between then and 20 May 2021 when they returned the account to Cabot  saying 
they thought Mr M wasnt living at the address held anymore.
Ive seen Mr Ms reference to section 40 of the Administration of Justice Act 1970  this 
relates to unlawful harassment of debtors. I need to make it clear my role is to decide things 
on a fair and reasonable basis  I cant decide if Cabot have broken the law.
Its unclear what specific part of the law Mr M feels has been broken, but hes said sending 
someone out to his address has broken this law. Its fairly common practice for debt owners / 
collectors to attempt different methods to try and contact someone if theyre getting no reply 
to their existing contacts. Mr M was given notice on two occasions before RC physically went 
to his property  by Cabot on 11 April and then by RC by letter on 29 April 2021. On both 
occasions the letters went unanswered. Ive not seen anything to suggest appointing 
someone to physically go out to someones property isnt acceptable / against the law  and 
they gave Mr M plenty of notice of this happening. Given that, I can only conclude Cabot havent acted unfairly, because there isnt anything Im aware of that says they cant 
physically send someone out to the property.
Turning now to the credit card account held with R, the first evidence I can see of any 
external party getting in touch about Mr Ms account is 5 November 2020 where RC were 
instructed by Cabot to make contact with Mr M. The notes show the account was returned by 
RC on 11 February 2021 saying they couldnt collect on the debt and didnt know if Mr M 
was living at the address given or not. Mr M has provided letters from RC in relation to the 
loan account with L but hasnt provided any letters from RC in relation to the credit card debt 
with R  so, Im unclear if any contact was successfully made with him during this time.
Following this, Mr Ms account with R was placed with B. Cabot have said B can complete 
address traces for them. Ive seen in the notes B had Mr Ms account from 26 February to 
9 July 2021 when, once again, the account was returned to Cabot saying they couldnt 
locate Mr M.
To pull all of this together then, it seems there was a crossover period where RC sent a letter 
about the loan account with L on 29 April 2021, visited the property between then and when 
they returned the account on 20 May 2021  and when B had the credit card account with R 
during this time during which I can see they sent one letter dated 14 May 2021.
I think its unfortunate Cabot have effectively employed two different agents to try and get in 
touch with Mr M during the same time. I have to note though Cabot had been trying to get in 
touch with Mr M for many months without reply leading up to April and May 2021 when the 
crossover period happened. I do think itd have been better customer service for Cabot to 
have kept both accounts with one agent to work  but equally I can also see Cabot did use 
RC initially for the account with R, before B then took it over and the crossover happened. 
Although I realise Mr M wont agree with this, I cant say that using different agents for 
different accounts means Cabot have done something wrong  even if its not been done as 
well as it could have been.
Ive noted Mr M has provided information from debt charities that says using different agents 
to collect on a debt amounts to harassment. But, here, I think the key distinction is they 
havent used the same agent  theyve used two different agents for two different accounts. 
So, I dont think Mr Ms scenario exactly fits the examples hes shared with us from the debt 
charities.
Ive also considered the rest of Cabots communication, plus those of their agents, and 
havent found anything to suggest they have harassed Mr M. It seems more generally 
theyve attempted to contact him on multiple occasions, but none of the contact appears 
excessive.
Ive noted Mr M has talked about how these contacts made him feel and how they affected 
his mental health. Im sorry to hear this and I dont take complaints made about harassment 
where someone says its seriously affected their mental health lightly. But I do need to be 
satisfied Cabot have made an error leading to that distress. Mr M has said his harassment 
concerns relate to multiple debt collection agents getting in touch at the same time.
Here, Cabot have made significant efforts to get in touch with Mr M on both of his accounts. 
They havent, at any point, contacted him about the same account with different debt 
collectors at the same time. I do think itd be better customer service if they had kept both of 
his accounts with one agent  but overall, I intend to say Cabot arent required to pay any 
compensation.Id encourage Mr M to get in touch with Cabot to try and reach a repayment agreement. In 
my experience, once a repayment agreement has been reached  or its been clearly 
established an individual cant afford one  debt owners / collectors generally make limited 
contact after this. I say this only in an attempt to help Mr M nothing else.
Mr M also said both accounts are statute barred  but from what I can see on the account 
with R payment was made in March 2018, and the account with L was opened in June 2019 
 with payments made between July and December 2019. My understanding is accounts 
can only potentially become statute barred if no payment has been made to the account in 
the last six years. Only a court can decide if an account is statute barred or not, but a debt 
owner / collector does need to make it clear if the account is unenforceable at any point. 
Again, having reviewed Cabots communication, I think theyve said this to Mr M when hed 
raised a query about the original documents under the CCA request and before they sent 
them  but then once received the account became enforceable again. So, I think Cabot 
have fairly presented the status of the account.
Ive also noted Mr Ms comments about how debt companies generally work. I need to make 
it clear my remit is solely to consider the circumstances of Mr Ms case  I dont have the 
power to change how the industry itself operates. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Cabot replied to my outcome and said they were in agreement with the outcome Id reached 
and had nothing further to add.
Mr M didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Cabot agreed with my outcome, and Mr M didnt reply by the deadline, Ive seen no 
reason to change the outcome I reached above  which was to say Cabot arent required to 
pay Mr M any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman