DRN-4256287
The complaint
Mr F complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr F entered into a conditional slae agreement with Santander in December 2022 to acquire 
a used car. He says that at acquisition the selling agent noted the gap between the bonnet 
and bumper, but he didnt think any more about this as everything seemed fine. Two weeks 
later he says he noticed a gap building between the top of the bumper and grille which 
hadnt been present when he acquired the car. Then, less than a month after acquisition the 
rear spoiler failed and could no longer be retracted. He says this issue arose after he had 
driven the car less than 2,000 miles. Mr F says the selling garage initially offered to pay 50% 
towards the repairs as a goodwill gesture but this offer has since been retracted.
Santander said that Mr F contacted it on 6 January 2023 raising issues with the rear spoiler 
not lowering and the front bumper being out of alignment. It arranged for an independent 
inspection of the car which took place on 14 February 2023. The inspection confirmed the 
issues raised. It then said that the issue with the bumper was likely due to light impact and 
that if present at supply this would have been clearly evident. Regarding the rear spoiler it 
said that the fault would have developed after acquisition as if it was present at the time of 
supply it would have been identified then. Based on this Santander didnt uphold M Fs 
complaint. 
Our investigator said that the faults had been confirmed by the inspection report. She noted 
that Mr F was aware of an issue with the bumper at acquisition and while this may have 
worsened since, as misalignment of the bumper was present at supply she said Mr F had 
accepted the car with this fault. Therefore, she didnt require Santander to cover the cost of 
this repair.  
Regarding the rear spoiler while our investigator noted the independent inspection report 
said the issue developed post acquisition, she thought the spoiler should have worked 
without issue for a much longer period of time. Therefore, she didnt think the car was 
sufficiently durable and so not of satisfactory quality at supply. She recommended that 
Santander cover the cost of the repair to the rear spoiler and pay Mr F £250 for the upset 
caused by being provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She said that while 
Mr F had been able to use the car since the issue with the rear spoiler occurred, the car 
wasnt performing as it should have and recommended that Mr F be refunded 15% of his 
payments from January 2023 to reflect the impaired use.
Santander didnt accept our investigators view. It said that there were no issues with the 
rear spoiler at the point of supply and had there been Mr F would have noticed this much 
sooner. It noted that the complaint was raised more than 30 days after Mr F acquired the 
car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the finance provider can, in certain 
circumstances, be held liable if the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
In this case the car was just over five years old and had been driven 36,774 miles at supply. 
The cash price of the car was £26,250.
It is reasonable to expect a used car to have suffered some wear and tear and it is possible 
that issues can arise shortly after acquisition that werent present or developing at supply. 
However, under the regulations, the car is required to be sufficiently durable to be 
considered of satisfactory quality.
Mr F raised two issues with the car. The first was with a gap between the bumper and the 
top grille and the second was the rear spoiler failing. Mr F raised a complaint about these 
issues with Santander on 6 January 2023 which was more than 30 days after acquisition. 
Mr F has said that he first noticed the issue with the bumper after about two weeks and it 
was less than a month when the rear spoiler failed. Based on Santanders notes Mr F raised 
the issue with the selling agent on 3 January after the fault arose on 31 December 2022. 
Based on the information I have seen it appears likely that the reported issues occurred 
within the first 30 days. That said, Mr F hasnt requested to reject the car and I think that 
considering repair is reasonable in this case.
Mr F said he discussed repairs with the selling agent which initially offered to cover 50% of 
the costs but then retracted this. For me to say that Santander is liable for the cost of repair, 
I would need to be satisfied that the issues were due to faults present or developing at the 
point of supply or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr F says that when he was acquiring the car the sales agent pointed out that there was a 
bigger than usual gap between the top of the grille and the bottom of the bonnet but then 
implied this was normal. I can understand that as Mr F was happy with the rest of the car, he 
didnt pay particular notice to this. The independent inspection report said the issue with the 
bumper appeared to be due to light impact damage. Mr F has said he hasnt damaged the 
bumper and so I accept the issue was present at supply. However, while I accept that the 
issue with the bumper may have worsened after acquisition, as the fault was present at 
supply, the inspection report said this would have been clearly evident and Mr F has said he 
was made aware of this by the selling agent, I find that he accepted the car with this issue 
and so I do not require Santander to cover the cost of any repair needed to the bumper.
The independent inspection confirmed there was a fault with the rear spoiler. The inspector 
said that in their opinion the fault had developed since acquisition and that had it been 
present at supply it would have been reported at that time. The selling agent has said that 
their cars go through a thorough pre-delivery inspection which includes driving the car. It 
said that there was no issue with the rear spoiler at that time. 
I have taken into account the outcome of the inspection and the selling agents comments 
but, in this case, given when the issue occurred, I think this raises concerns that the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable.
The inspection took place on 14 February 2023. At this point the car had been driven 40,264 
miles (3,490 miles since Mr F acquired it). However, Mr F explained the issue arose less than a month after acquisition and has provided copies of a fault code from around 38,756 
miles saying, active rear spoiler, timeout when extending or retracting the rear spoiler 
(blocking or sensor faulty). Previous to this a fault code was recorded at around 37,538 
miles saying, recognised blocking the tailgate. As the car was supplied with a mileage of 
36,774 this suggests Mr F drove the car less than 2,000 miles before the problem occurred 
and around 1,000 miles before the initial fault code was recorded.
Taking all of the above into account, and noting also the price paid for the car, I find on 
balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to not being 
sufficiently durable. Because of this I am upholding this complaint and require the repair to 
the spoiler to take place at no cost to Mr F. Given that I am not aware the business has had 
an opportunity to carry out the repair it can, if it wishes, now be allowed to carry out the 
repair. Or Mr F can arrange for the repair to take place and Santander would then be 
required to refund the cost. 
Mr F has been able to drive the car and so it is reasonable that he remains liable for his 
payments under this agreement. However, the issue with the spoiler means the car wasnt 
performing as it should and so I agree with our investigators recommendation of a 15% 
refund on the payments made from January 2023 to when the repair is undertaken. I also 
agree that Mr F has been caused stress and inconvenience by not being provided with a car 
that was of satisfactory quality and agree with the recommended £250 compensation for 
this. 
Putting things right
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should:
ensure the rear spoiler is repaired at no cost to Mr F; 
pay a refund of rentals of 15% from January 2023 to when the issue is resolved;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunded amounts from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement*;
pay a further amount of £250 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused; 
and
remove any adverse information that may have been applied from the customers 
credit file in relation to the agreement. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman