DRN-3600870
The complaint
Two linked companies Ill refer to as R have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due 
to Covid-19.
Mr E, a director of the two linked companies, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf 
through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from R. 
What happened
R held a business interruption policy with AXA. The policy schedule shows the two linked 
companies that Ive referred to as R as the policyholder. R claimed on their policy after their 
linked businesses were impacted by Covid-19.
AXA said the policy didnt cover Rs claim. The policy covered closure by a public authority 
as a result of a notifiable human disease manifesting at the premises. But AXA thought that 
Rs businesses had been impacted by the Governments imposed restrictions rather than 
because someone at their premises had Covid-19 and turned down their claim. AXA said 
that the denial of access extensions of Rs policy also didnt cover their claim. 
R pointed out that AXA had reduced the business interruption cover for the policys 2021 
renewal by introducing a list of diseases. AXA said that it had reviewed its policy wording 
and Rs policy had been brought into line with its standard Commercial Combined policy, 
which listed the diseases that were covered. 
R did not agree with AXAs interpretation of the policy and brought their complaint to our 
service. R said that AXA had not acted in line with our services expectation for insurers to 
think beyond a strict interpretation of the policy terms and consider carefully whats fair and 
reasonable in each case, taking into account the unprecedented situation created by Covid-
19. By changing the policy cover, R said that AXA was aware that the previous policy 
wording covered their claim, otherwise the policy wording could have remained the same. 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. She didnt 
think R had shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business 
premises. She didnt think the denial of access extensions covered the claim. 
R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. R said that they had cover for 
notifiable human disease. Had they not been shut down under the Government regulations, 
there would have been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises. R considered we were 
interpreting the policy differently from them and as decided by the Supreme Court in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case. R restated their 
position about the change to the 2021 policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Rs businesses. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Rs claim.
Premises closure or restrictions 
The relevant part of the extension in Rs policy covers loss in consequence of:
Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Office of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease other than Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS 
related condition manifesting itself at the Premises or at any situations (or to 
property) as specifically mentioned in the Schedule
Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. So, for this extension to provide cover Rs claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested itself at the 
premises, I think that someone would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 or 
have displayed symptoms while at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
R has not suggested that there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises. Rather, 
I understand that Rs businesses closed due to the Government lockdown. R has not shown 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. So, I think AXA 
fairly turned down its claim under this part of the policy. 
I note Rs comments that, had they not closed, it would have been likely a case of Covid-19 
would have manifested at the premises. However, it remains the case that Rs claim is not 
covered because R has not shown it was most likely a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at 
the premises. 
As I am not persuaded that a case of Covid-19 manifested itself at Rs premises, I dont think 
its claim was impacted by the Supreme Courts judgment in the FCA business interruption 
insurance test case.
Ive considered Rs point about our services expectation of how insurers should review this 
type of claim. But in this particular case I dont think that AXA failed to act fairly or 
reasonably in interpreting its policy terms, given that R did not provide any evidence to show that a case of Covid-19 had manifested itself at the premises.
Denial of Access  Non-Damage
This extension covers business interruption or interference in consequence of: 
access to the Premises being hindered or prevented as a result of the actions or 
advice of a government or local authority due to an emergency arising which is likely 
to endanger life or property at or in the immediate vicinity of the Premises
Cover is excluded under this for Any consequence of labour disputes infections or 
contagious diseases or drought.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law. 
I think the High Court judgment in the FCA business interruption insurance test case is 
relevant to Rs complaint because the High Court considered a similar term to that within Rs 
policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed (to the Supreme Court). 
As our investigator has mentioned, paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises. 
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Rs premises 
closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as 
an infectious disease. Therefore, I think AXA fairly concluded that the policy did not provide 
cover under the non-damage Denial of Access extension.
The 2021 policy renewal
R says it is not likely that AXA would have changed the policy wording for the 2021 renewal 
if the earlier policy wording did not, in fact, cover their claim. However, this doesnt change 
the position that the policy in place at the time of their claim did not provide cover, as there 
wasnt a clause in the policy that covered the circumstances of their claim. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome R was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Rs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, as director of 
the two linked companies R, to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman