DRN-3160900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
Mr and Mrs B have a separate complaint against the business that sold them the policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in early 2019, Mr and Mrs B booked accommodation for a trip with 
departure and return dates of 23 May 2020 and 30 May 2020 respectively. The trip was to 
celebrate Mrs Bs retirement. They paid for accommodation for a total of 10 adults and four 
children.
On 12 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy with 
Great Lakes under the Avanti brand. They had Classic cover. Mrs B spoke with the 
business which sold them the policy and says that it misled her. The investigator
explained that any complaint about the business that sold the policy to them would have 
to be dealt with separately.
In mid-March 2020, the government of the country of Mr and Mrs Bs intended 
destination imposed certain restrictions, including border restrictions. On 17 March 2020, 
the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad.
On 19 March 2020, the accommodation provider told Mr and Mrs B that the 
accommodation was closed, in accordance with government restrictions in that country. 
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to 
the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an 
instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
In April 2020, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs flights and refunded the flight costs. 
The accommodation reopened before the start date of Mr and Mrs Bs trip but the 
FCDOs advice about non-essential travel remained in place at the time of                    
Mr and Mrs Bs intended departure.
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs B made a claim against their policy in relation to the total 
accommodation costs. Great Lakes declined the claim. The business that sold the policy 
to Mr and Mrs B said that, as it had made an error in a previous phone call, it would deal 
with the claim. It offered Mr and Mrs B 2/14ths of the accommodation costs, less the 
excess due under the policy. Mr and Mrs B want a full refund of the accommodation 
costs they paid.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that whilst what 
happened here wasnt one of the insured events in the policy, a fair and reasonable 
outcome required Great Lakes to deal with the claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
What happened here isnt an insured event  a change in the advice of the 
FCDO isnt a listed peril in the cancellation section of the policy.
Its industry practice to insure only specified perils.
The logical extension of the investigators approach is that it should cover claims 
for other perils it has specifically excluded.
Mr and Mrs B were provided with the policy terms.
No policy covers every unforeseen event.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is only a summary.
The investigator considered what Great Lakes said but it didnt change her view.             
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
On 3 November 2021, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the  policy, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows:
Section 1 Cancellation
[]
What is covered:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits per insured person for 
your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted to pay), 
for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £250), which you 
do not use because of the following:
[]
There follows a list of insured events. What happened here isnt in that list. The policy goes
on to say:
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
[]
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked trip due to Government action;
[]
19. anything mentioned in the General Exclusions
General Exclusions  applying to all sections 
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: 
[]
23. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body have advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
General Conditions  applying to all sections[]
21. We will not pay for any costs which are recoverable elsewhere.
The IPID says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For 
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a duty to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont propose to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as I dont think that Great Lakes 
treated them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Bs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the 
cancellation section of the policy. So, what happened here isnt covered under the 
terms and conditions of their policy.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy, but 
I dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances 
they found themselves in.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of 
the case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly 
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, such as 
an exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair 
and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I think there are other reasons why Great Lakes could 
have fairly declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
The cancellation and curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy also excludes 
claims for cancellation arising out of prohibitive regulations by the Government 
of any country, or delay or amendment of the booked trip due to Government 
action.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for
Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, 
FCDO advice and government restrictions in the UK and abroad  are all likely 
to have impacted to some degree on the cancellation of the trip.
In their claim form, Mr and Mrs B said that their trip was cancelled on                     
19 March 2020. Ive seen the accommodation providers e-mail to Mr and Mrs B of 
that date. The accommodation provider didnt cancel the trip in that e-mail but said 
that the accommodation was closed because of government restrictions and would 
likely remain closed until mid/late April 2020 (Mr and Mrs Bs intended departure 
wasnt until May 2020).Its not clear to me exactly when Mr and Mrs Bs trip was cancelled but their 
destination countrys border restrictions and the UK governments restrictions on 
movement remained in force at the time of Mr and Mrs Bs planned departure date 
in May 2020. So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Bs 
trip not covered as listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the 
exclusion Ive quoted above about prohibitive regulations or Government action 
would apply to the circumstances of their claim in any event.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt 
cover any costs which are recoverable elsewhere. The accommodation provider 
offered Mr and Mrs B a credit for a future trip. I havent seen the terms of that offer 
but, assuming that its terms are fair and reasonable, I think that means that           
Mr and Mrs Bs unused accommodation costs are recoverable from the 
accommodation provider. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B would prefer a cash 
refund from the accommodation provider, but their policy only covers 
unrecoverable costs and the offer of a credit for a future trip means that their costs 
are recoverable.
For these reasons, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes said it had nothing further to add. Mrs B responded at some length, which I 
wont set out here in full. In summary, Mrs B asked that I reconsider my provisional 
decision and said:
The business that sold them the policy misled them and their complaint is against 
that business, which only offered them 2/14ths of the accommodation costs.
They have minimised their claim and only the accommodation costs remain 
outstanding. 
The accommodation provider offered a credit for the same week in 2021. The 
Financial Conduct Authority cautioned against accepting vouchers. The offer was 
later withdrawn in any event. The accommodation provider referred to their difficult 
financial position, so its possible they wouldnt be able to honour a voucher. 
When they bought the policy there was no exclusion relating to covid-19 and they 
were told by the business that sold them the policy that they were covered for 
claims arising from covid-19.
The policy is ambiguous and misleading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Im dealing with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint as it relates to the underwriter of 
their policy, Great Lakes. The investigator has set up a separate complaint against the business that sold the policy to Mr and Mrs B. So, I dont comment here on what Mrs B 
says about the business that sold the policy.
I dont agree that the policy is ambiguous and misleading. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
think Great Lakes could reasonably rely on the exclusion relating to prohibitive 
regulations or Government action in declining the claim.
Mrs B has provided e-mail exchanges with the accommodation provider in which it  
withdrew the offer of a voucher. So, Mr and Mrs Bs accommodation costs arent 
recoverable from the accommodation provider. That doesnt alter the outcome of this 
complaint, as Great Lakes is entitled to decline the claim for the reason Ive referred to 
above. 
Ive reconsidered whats been said and provided. I remain of the view that Great Lakes 
didnt act unfairly in declining the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman