DRN-3110391
The complaint
X complains that MASECO LLP trading as Maseco Private Wealth (Maseco), who provide 
discretionary investment management services in relation to the assets held within his Self-
Invested Personal Penson (SIPP), failed to properly investigate his concerns about potential 
unauthorized foreign currency conversions using funds from his SIPP. And that they 
incorrectly told him that no such conversions were taking place, leading to the unauthorized 
conversions continuing.
What happened
X is a UK citizen who lives in the United States. He has a UK Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with another business  business D. Xs SIPP is denominated in US dollars. 
Maseco acted as Xs financial advisers and managed his investments on a discretionary 
basis for a number of years. 
Business D required X to have a bank account with a named private bank (business C). I 
understand that he opened this account in December 2015. This was so he could make cash 
withdrawals from his SIPP. 
X requested a regular monthly withdrawal of $10,000 from his SIPP. Business D told 
Maseco that they needed to notify HMRC of the withdrawals he made in GBP. Therefore it 
would be easier to set a notional GBP figure, which would be used monthly thereafter to 
determine the USD payment from the SIPP, based on the USD to GBP exchange rate at the 
time of the initial payment. The notional GBP figure was set at £8,110.66. This would then be 
converted to USD every month and paid to Xs cash account. As the USD to GBP exchange 
rate would change over time, the value in USD would vary each month. So X would receive 
a different payment each month.
I understand that the first monthly payment was made on 3 February 2016 in USD. And that 
the second payment was made on 3 March 2016 in USD.
X said that he spoke to Maseco in August 2016 to query the amounts he was being paid. 
They contacted business D, but received no response. And told X there were no foreign 
currency conversions taking place on his account. 
In fact, although the instructions had been correct, business C had mis-interpreted them. 
And had converted some of the payments from USD to GBP, then paid GBP into Xs USD-
denominated bank account. This led to further foreign currency transactions. I understand 
that at the time of Xs query to Maseco in August 2016, there had been six withdrawals, one 
of which had been made in the incorrect way outlined above.
I understand that in 2017, business C changed the process they used to manage the 
payments.  And that this led to all payments after the change being incorrectly converted 
from USD to GBP, and then back again.
X accepted Masecos confirmation in August 2016 that thered been no foreign currency 
conversions. But in 2020 he again questioned the amounts he was being paid. He said at 
this point he found out that unauthorized foreign currency conversions had been taking place 
at the time Maseco had told him they werent. And that these had continued to happen as a 
result of Maseco's confirmation that they werent taking place. So he complained to Maseco. 
He felt they shouldve picked up the issue in 2016. And that if they had, they couldve 
prevented most of the unauthorized conversions taking place. 
Maseco issued their final response on the complaint on 6 October 2020. They said that Xs 
account with business C didnt form part of the investment mandate theyd held for him, so 
they had limited oversight about what was happening. They agreed that in August 2016 
theyd confirmed to X that his: "dollars do not get converted to sterling or any other currency 
during the routing from [business holding investment portfolio account] to your SIPP bank 
account and then on to your USD bank account". And that at the time theyd said this, all but 
one of the withdrawals had been correctly processed in USD, without currency conversion. 
Maseco said that it wasnt until after this that business C had routinely started to convert the 
monies to GBP. And that they hadnt been able to identify that the process wasnt being 
carried out correctly as they didnt have sight of business Cs bank account. 
Maseco didnt think they were responsible for the unauthorized conversions. But they agreed 
that they couldve done more in 2016, as they said that they hadnt raised Xs queries at that 
time with business D. They said they shouldve made further enquiries to ensure that monies 
were being paid in accordance with Xs instructions. And they shouldve escalated the matter 
internally. They offered X $500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
X disagreed with Maseco. He felt they shouldve raised his query with business D. He felt 
that if this had been done, the unauthorized conversions couldve been stopped at that point. 
X said that Maseco hadnt acted in line with the public statements theyd made about the 
service they provided. He felt theyd publicised their skill in managing foreign exchange risks. 
And that these public statements had led him to expect a very different outcome to his 
question.
X asked Maseco to reconsider their compensation offer in light of his points. He said their 
offer of $500 compensation was minimal compared to the time hed spent trying to resolve 
the issue.
There were further email exchanges between X and Maseco. The following points were 
made by Maseco:
- They had, in fact, proactively raised Xs query with business D. 
- They were unable to go directly to business C as they didnt have a direct 
relationship with them. They felt it was business Ds role as the SIPP Provider to 
investigate what had happened at business C.
- Theyd raised Xs concerns through proper channels. But they werent responsible for 
the errors made by other businesses.
And by X:
- Although Maseco were now saying that theyd raised his issue with business D, 
theyd given no indication that theyd received a clear response stating whether 
unauthorized trades were taking place in his pension account. Therefore they 
shouldnt have written to him to tell him there werent any. Their incorrect 
confirmation had allowed the unauthorized trading to continue.- They shouldve asked business C for statements. If theyd done so, they wouldve 
been able to correctly answer his query. 
And finally by Maseco, on 16 December 2020:
- They didnt have access to the statements X said they shouldve requested from 
business C. And theyd correctly confirmed that there was no currency conversion 
from USD to GBP in respect of the account for which they were responsible. The 
issue X was querying was for business D, with whom theyd raised it.
- They no longer partially upheld Xs complaint on the basis that theyd not raised his 
query with business D, as they had raised it with them. But as a gesture of good faith 
and without admission of liability, they stood by their offer of $500 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience for a period of 10 days.
X brought his complaint about Maseco to this service on 18 December 2020. He confirmed 
at a later date that he wanted them to compensate him as follows:
- $400 for each hour of time hed spent sorting out the issue. He said hed spent 120 
hours dealing with the matter before he received Masecos final response. And that if 
hed not been spending his time in that way, he wouldve used the time to work with 
his fee-paying clients. This element of his claim totalled $48,000.
- A full refund of the pension management fees hed paid to Maseco between 2016 
and 2020.  
- A payment for the distress the issue had caused him. He felt that without his 
involvement, the losses wouldve continued indefinitely. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that although 
Maseco had replied to X before theyd heard back from business D, their offer of $500 for 
the poor customer service was fair in the circumstances. 
X didnt agree with our investigator that it was fair to describe what had happened as poor 
customer service. He made the following points. 
-He agreed that the unauthorized trading had been carried out by business C. But felt 
that Maseco didnt investigate his serious concern beyond raising a question about it.  
-He felt it would be more accurate to describe what had happened by saying that: 
despite receiving a clear customer concern that unauthorized trading was taking 
place in this pension account, MASECO did not investigate the matter and the senior 
executive in charge of the account then decided, knowingly, to misrepresent the 
situation by sending a false written communication to the customer stating 
unequivocally that no such unauthorized trading was taking place. He said that as a 
direct result of the failure to investigate the issue properly, the unauthorized trading 
continued for several years, creating a much larger loss. 
-He said that hed had to spend his money and time to get advice, investigate the 
issues and uncover the true situation. And that hed investigated Masecos error in a 
professional capacity. He felt he should be allowed to act as both a complainant and 
a professional financial investigator. 
-He felt that Maseco should be held accountable for more than just a customer 
service mistake. And repeated his request for the compensation hed outlined earlier. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.  X sent the 
following points for me to consider:
-He felt that Maseco had caused him immense stress and concern. He said that 
Maseco had failed to take action for several years. And that, as such, the $500 theyd 
offered wasnt a reasonable level of compensation for this degree of distress.
-He said that if Maseco had done their job, he wouldve been engaged in other work 
at his normal professional rate. He didnt agree that it was fair to ignore the costs of 
investigating a loss just because the person doing this work is also the author of the 
complaint.
-X confirmed that hed received compensation from business C for the direct losses. 
But that he wanted me to consider the significant costs hed incurred when 
investigating the matter himself. And the financial stress the situation had caused him 
for several years. He referred me to his previous submission in which hed outlined 
the compensation he expected.
I understand that the separate complaint raised on Xs behalf with the business which 
actually carried out the unauthorised foreign currency transactions  business C - was 
upheld by this service. And that business C has taken steps to put X back into the financial 
position he wouldve been in if all the payments had originally been paid in USD, without 
being converted. I understand that conversion charges have also been refunded. And that 
8% simple interest was added to each transaction to reflect the fact that X was deprived of 
the use of that money. I also note that business C has paid £200 for the upset caused and 
the considerable time and effort X had to spend looking into the issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the $500 offer of 
compensation Maseco made was reasonable under the circumstances. I understand this will 
be disappointing to X. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered whether Maseco should be held responsible for the financial loss X 
suffered due to the unauthorised conversions. 
Are Maseco responsible for the financial losses?
Maseco incorrectly confirmed to X that no unauthorised conversions had been made before 
theyd heard back from business D.
X has confirmed that hes received compensation from business C for the direct losses 
relating to the unauthorised conversions. Hes also confirmed that he doesnt expect to be 
compensated for the same loss twice.
As business C has already covered the cost of the direct financial losses, Im not going to 
consider this point any further.
I next considered whether Maseco had provided the level of service X could reasonably 
have expected. Did Maseco fall short of their service standards?
In their October 2020 final response letter, Maseco initially acknowledged that they hadnt 
contacted business D for their input on Xs August 2016 query. They also stated that they 
shouldve made further enquiries to ensure that the payments were being made in line with 
Xs instructions. And that they shouldve escalated the matter internally. They offered $500 
compensation for distress the poor service had caused.
Maseco subsequently withdrew their partial uphold of Xs complaint in their December 2020 
letter. They did this on the basis that they had in fact contacted business D. But they didnt 
say that theyd internally escalated the matter at the time. Nor did they say that theyd made 
the further enquiries about the payments they had earlier said they shouldve made. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill, they didnt retract their offer of $500 compensation for the 
distress caused.
I consider that although Maseco retracted their partial uphold of the complaint, they could 
and should have taken the further steps they noted they hadnt taken in their October 2016 
final response letter. Therefore, I agree with Masecos October 2020 final response letter in 
which they found that they had fallen short of their service standards. 
I next considered the level of compensation that would be fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Appropriate compensation
As our investigator noted, when a business makes a compensation offer, its the role of this 
service to review their offer to see if its fair under the circumstances of the complaint. In this 
case, Maseco have offered $500 compensation. 
From what Ive seen, including all of the information provided for this complaint, and the 
outcome of Xs complaint to business C, business C were responsible for the unauthorised 
conversions. Theyve compensated X in a way that aimed to put him back to the position he 
wouldve been in if they hadnt acted incorrectly. Therefore, as I noted earlier, Maseco 
shouldnt be required to pay any compensation in respect of the direct financial losses from 
the unauthorised conversions. 
X has told this service that in his professional capacity, he charges $400 each hour. And that 
he acted in this capacity in investigating his own complaint. Therefore hes asked for 
compensation to cover the time he couldve instead spent on chargeable work. 
X feels that if Maseco had investigated his query appropriately, he wouldnt have needed to. 
As our investigator said, this service doesnt usually recommend that the complainants 
professional hourly charge can be used to assess compensation. I can confirm that this isnt 
something wed usually do in cases brought in someones personal capacity  as is the case 
here. We dont usually make a specific award for someones time, or calculate it using a set 
hourly rate. But we do factor in the inconvenience someone mayve experienced spending 
time dealing with a matter. This is because we consider that one persons free time is worth 
no more or less than anothers.
And, as our investigator previously explained, the rules that set up our service explain who 
can bring complaints to us. One of the types of eligible complainants is consumers. A 
consumer is defined in our rules as an individual acting for purposes which are wholly or 
mainly outside that individuals trade, business, craft or profession. As Xs complaint was 
about the failure to properly investigate a query that X had asked Maseco as a consumer, that's the basis on which he brought the complaint to this service. Therefore I wouldn't 
recommend that Maseco paid Xs professional hourly rate even if I was satisfied that Maseco 
were responsible for most of the loss.
While I understand Xs position, Im not persuaded that Maseco should pay him for the time 
he spent on his complaint, for the reasons Ive given above.
X also wanted Maseco to refund the fees hed paid them for managing his pension between 
2016 and 2020. He said they should be refunded as Maseco had failed to control what 
happened to his pension funds. And that theyd also sent a false and unsupported statement 
to him about the unauthorized conversions that were taking place. He said these had directly 
led to the financial losses hed incurred. 
Ive carefully considered Xs points here. But Ive seen no evidence that Maseco provided a 
poor service over the period from 2016 to 2020, other than their failure to take further steps 
to correctly answer his 2016 query. While I agree that this constituted one instance of poor 
service  as I outlined above  I dont agree this means that Maseco didnt provide a good 
service throughout the four-year period X has requested a full refund of fees for. I say this 
because Xs only complaint over that period is the one being considered in this complaint. 
Therefore I dont agree that Maseco should be asked to refund the fees he paid them. 
X said that Maseco had caused him immense stress and concern. And that the $500 theyd 
offered him wasnt reasonable under the circumstances.
I explained earlier what I consider Maseco did wrong. They offered $500 compensation for 
the poor service they provided. 
I agree with our investigator that this is consistent with the amount I wouldve recommended 
if they hadnt already made an offer. I say this because business C has now acknowledged 
that they were responsible for the unauthorised conversions. As well as putting X back to the 
position he shouldve been in, they offered him £200 for the distress that caused him. I 
understand that X accepted that offer.
I acknowledge that X doesnt agree that $500 is reasonable, given the upset he said Maseco 
caused him. But Im satisfied that the offer is fair under the circumstances of the complaint. I 
say this because Maseco were only partially responsible for what happened. I consider that 
business C have more responsibility for the trouble and upset caused. And from what Ive 
seen, X accepted a lower amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience from them 
than Maseco offered.
Overall, I consider that Maseco took reasonable steps to put things right. Therefore I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman