DRN-2197187
The complaint
Miss M has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
MYJAR Limited. Miss M says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her 
financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Miss M took out 4 instalment loans from MYJAR between January 2017 
and September 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Ms borrowing with MYJAR, based 
on the information it provided to us: 
loan date taken date repaid amount termmonthly 
repayment
1 06/01/2017 12/07/2017 £250 6 months £76.64
2 07/12/2017 28/11/2018 £500 12 months £74.41
3 17/12/2018 28/06/2019 £550 12 months £86.24
4 06/09/2019 outstanding £800 24 months £61.76
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
for loans 3 and 4 only. Agreement about this couldnt be reached, so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Ms complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss M could repay all the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks 
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being 
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loans being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss M could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss M including assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says all this 
information showed that she would be able to make the loan repayments she was 
committing to. Ive thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Ive taken account of what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, and 
applied it to the circumstances of loans 1 and 2 in this case. I think the checks MYJAR 
probably carried out would have been at the less detailed end of the spectrum. They would 
have exposed some, but certainly not all of Miss Ms wider financial profile. So, in my view, 
theres no clear record that the type or depth of credit checks that were carried out at that 
time would have exposed the wider financial difficulties Miss M says she was experiencing, 
although I entirely accept these were real concerns for her.
The second test relates to affordability for the first two loans themselves when benchmarked 
against Miss Ms self-declared income. She said she earned (after tax) £1,300 and £1,400 
respectively for loans 1 and 2. And Ive looked carefully at all the expenses she says she 
had. Again, I completely understand Miss M when she implies money was tight. However, 
the payments of around £75 for both loans, neither of which overlapped each other, do seem 
to me to be within her ability to pay; had the amounts been much I higher I can see they 
might have been unsustainable.
However, having assessed the checking process MYJAR most likely carried out, and the 
amount of capacity to pay Miss M apparently had, I dont have enough to uphold her 
complaint for the first two loans. 
Nevertheless, I think from the point of loan number 3, the situation was different. I consider 
all 4 loans to be part of one lending chain without a meaningful break. As such, I dont 
agree with MYJAR that the gap in lending between loans 1 and 2 should mean anything 
significant to my overall assessment. And so, by loan number 3 MYJAR had been 
continuously lending to Miss M for 23 months, that is, without a meaningful break.The amount(s) being borrowed at the point of the third loan onwards show a general 
increase in value and therefore are relevant to the point I make above about the headroom 
for Miss M already being very tight. She was on a relatively modest income and had, by loan 
3, been granted high-interest loans for a long time. Likewise, loan number 4 increased in 
value, and the length of repayment term caused her to be indebted for much longer.
From the point of loan 3 onwards therefore, there was a clear pattern of repeated lending 
evident. There was an obvious dependency on high-interest, short-term loans. So Im 
upholding Miss Ms complaint in respect of loans 3 and 4 because MYJAR repeatedly lent to 
Miss M in an unsustainable manner because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss M, MYJAR should:
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
if loan 4 is still outstanding, MYJAR should remove any interest and charges still 
outstanding on it and treat any payments Miss M made towards this loan as 
payments towards the capital;
if reworking Miss Ms loan 4 account as Ive directed results in Miss M effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MYJAR should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Miss Ms loan 4 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MYJAR can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind MYJAR that it should 
take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss M for the remaining capital;
loans 3 and 4 mean any information recorded about them is adverse. So all entries 
about loans 3 and 4 should be completely removed from Miss Ms credit file;
If any debt was sold, MYJAR must ensure the above is still strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I partially uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman