DRN-3657359
The complaint
Ms L complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans
she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms L was advanced 6 home collected loans between November 2017 and December 2019.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 06/11/2017 04/06/2018 33 £20.00
2 £400.00 04/06/2018 26/03/2019 33 £20.00
3 £400.00 26/03/2019 01/10/2019 33 £20.00
4 £200.00 07/06/2019 17/12/2019 33 £10.00
5 £500.00 01/10/2019 13/11/2020 34 £25.00
6 £200.00 17/12/2019 13/11/2020 34 £10.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped,
Ms Ls commitment to Morses was greater. For example, when loans 5 and 6 were running
she was due to pay Morses £35 per week.
Following Ms Ls complaint Morses explained in its final response letter that it had carried
out affordability checks before the loans were advanced and based on the information it
received it was reasonable to lend.
Ms Ls representative didnt agree with the findings in the final response letter and instead
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then reviewed by an adjudicator. He concluded it was reasonable for loans 1
 3 to have been advanced. So, he didnt uphold the complaint about this lending. However,
he thought loans 4 - 6 shouldnt have been granted because the lending pattern was now
harmful for Ms L. So, he upheld the complaint about those final three loans.
Ms Ls representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment but didnt
provide any further comments.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in summary, Morses said:
It doesnt consider six loans in just over two years to be excessive.
While loans did overlap Morses says it carried out thorough checks to make sure the 
loans were affordable.
Ms Ls income was confirmed through a check with the credit reference agencies.
Ms L signed to say the information she had provided was accurate.
Ms L didnt have too many household bills because Morses says these were covered 
by her husband.
Only 14.2% of Ms Ls income went towards loan repayments  which Morses doesnt 
deem to be excessive.
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties Ms L may have been having.
The adjudicator went back to Morses to explain why its comments hadnt changed his mind
about the case. However, Morses still disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final
decision.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me. I then issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Ms Ls 
complaint. 
A copy of my provisional findings follows this in smaller font and italics and form part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Neither Ms L (or her representative) appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators
findings in relation to loans 1  3. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer
think that I need to make a finding about it. But for completeness I dont disagree with the
adjudicators assessment that it wasnt unfair of Morses to have provided these loans. But I
have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between
Morses and Ms L.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loans
4 - 6.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms L could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss
Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms L. These factors include:
Ms L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms L.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms L could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enoughmoney to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms L was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ls complaint.
Loans 4  6
The adjudicator upheld these loans because in his view they were harmful for Ms L because
it was now unsustainable for Morses to continue to lend to her. I can understand why the
adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve concluded these loans
were now harmful to Ms L.
I accept, that Ms L had been indebted with Morses (by loan 4) continuously for around 19
months  and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 33 weeks. By loan
6, Ms L had been borrowing from Morses for just over two years. This, in some situations
could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least having longer
term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was consecutive
and overlapped, which could show that Ms L had a continued need for credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that these loans were for fairly small sums to be repaid over
a longer period of time - longer than say a payday loan. And loan 4 was the smallest capital
loan that she had borrowed to date, and while the amount increased for loan 5, it then
decreased for loan 6. Although, I do accept that there was an upward trend in terms of
Ms Ls weekly commitment to Morses. But I dont think Ms Ls indebtedness seemed to be
increasing unsustainably.
There also hadnt been any obvious repayment problems when Ms L had settled previous
loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised these
loans were unsustainable for Ms L and so I am intending to conclude that these loans were
likely not to be so harmful enough that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending
to her. But that doesnt mean Morse did all it shouldve done before advancing these loans.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Ms L, around this time
her income ranged between £245 and £259 per week. Her weekly expenditure was between
£50 and £130 which resulted in a disposable income for these loans of between £129 and
£200 per week. This may have then led Morses to believe that Ms L had sufficient
disposable income and could afford the loan repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Ms L may have been reliant on
this credit. In addition, Ms L had started to have loans running concurrently and her weekly
commitment to Morses was steadily increasing. These factors ought to have prompted it to
consider whether it knew enough about Ms Ls financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms L declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms L could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ls actual financial position to
ensure these loans were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Ls full creditreport.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ls financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms L couldnt afford the loans.
Ms Ls representative has already told the Financial Ombudsman that it cant provide any
further information such as copies of Ms Ls bank statements so I dont know and cant say
what Morses may have seen had it verified the information she provided. So, without any
further information from Ms L about her other living costs, its difficult for me to conclude
Morses wouldve discovered these loans were unaffordable.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Ms L. As this is
the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ls complaint about loans 4 - 6 and therefore Im
intending to not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Morses and Ms L were asked to respond to the provisional decision as soon as 
possible, but no later than 18 August 2022. 
Neither, Morses nor Ms L responded to the provisional decision, so I dont know what either 
party thinks about the outcome Im intending to reach. 
The deadline for both parties to respond has now passed and with no response being 
received I consider it reasonable to progress this case for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new comments or information, I see no reason to depart 
from my findings which I was intending to make in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out a proportionate check before it granted loans 4  6 for 
Ms L. But as I dont have any further information from Ms L about her financial position at the 
time these loans were granted I cant fairly conclude Morses was wrong to provide them. 
I am therefore not upholding Ms Ls complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman