DRN-3418012
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr F is being represented in this complaint by his daughter. However, for ease of reference, 
Ill only refer to Mr F within my decision.
What happened
On 24 July 2020, Mr F was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £2,250 and the agreement was for £20,390.17 over 
49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £275 and a final optional payment of £10,507.50 
if he wanted to keep the car. Mr F has said that he acquired the car with the intention of his 
daughter being the main driver.
Mr F said he had problems shortly after being supplied with the car with an intermittent fault 
on the media unit and the start/stop function deploying on several occasions. A local 
dealership provided wires for the media unit as an alternative to the faulty Bluetooth 
connectivity, but Mr F had difficulties arranging to take the car back to the supplying 
dealership because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the government imposed lockdowns.
The supplying dealership took back the car on 30 May 2021 to do a software update. They 
kept the car for four days, during which time Mr F wasnt provided with a courtesy car. But, 
after the car was returned to him, Mr F complained that the faults still existed. The supplying 
dealership made another unsuccessful attempt to fix the car in June 2021. And, in July 2021, 
Mr F part-exchanged the car because of the problems he was still experiencing. The 
replacement car was financed by an agreement in Mr Fs daughters sole name.
Mr F complained to VWFS. But they said that hed waited more than six months before 
raising any issues with them. So, they didnt think the car wouldve been faulty at the point of 
supply. Mr F wasnt happy with this and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
To put things right, Mr F asked for VWFS to pay the additional £500 his daughter had to pay 
as a deposit on the replacement car, as well as the additional £25 a month she was paying 
under the new agreement. He also wanted VWFS to cover the cost of his daughters 
physiotherapy appointments as he said shed been injured due to the start/stop failure.
Our investigator said Mr F had been provided with a brand-new car. And, from the evidence 
shed seen, she was satisfied there was an intermittent fault thatd been present since 
shortly after supply. And this hadnt been fixed, despite attempts to do so. So, she said that 
the car wasnt sufficiently durable, and this made it of an unsatisfactory quality.
Because Mr F had already part-exchanged the car, it wasnt possible to allow him to reject it. 
So the investigator thought VWFS should refund him 15% of the payments hed made, for 
the impaired usage he had given the faults, and refund the equivalent of four days payments 
to cover the time the car was in for repair, but no courtesy car was supplied. And she said 
VWFS should also pay statutory interest on these amounts and an additional £150 to 
compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
However, because this agreement was in Mr Fs name, and because hed benefitted from 
the equity in the car when he part-exchanged it; the investigator didnt think it was fair for 
VWFS to pay anything towards his daughters agreement on the new car. Nor did she think 
that VWFS were responsible for Mr Fs daughters medical expenses as she wasnt party to 
the original agreement and Mr F hadnt declared that she was going to be the main driver.
VWFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr F didnt. While he agreed the car was faulty, he 
didnt think the remedy was sufficient. He also said that his daughter only took out a new 
agreement on a different car because of the issues with this car. And, as such, believes that 
both agreements need to be considered.
Because Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS are 
responsible. So, if the car was faulty when Mr F took possession of it, and this fault made the 
car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Both Mr F and VWFS have accepted the car was faulty, and this fault made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Given this, I wont repeat the circumstances and 
facts relating to the fault. Instead Ill focus on what I consider to be a fair remedy.
While the agreement was taken out in Mr Fs name, hes said that the car was mostly to be 
used by his daughter. And presumably his daughter would make the payments. Given this, I 
understand why Mr F thinks that this agreement is linked to the agreement his daughter took 
out on a replacement car. 
However, because this agreement was in Mr Fs sole name, and the new agreement was in 
his daughters sole name, these two agreements arent linked in the eyes of the law  Mr F 
and his daughter are separate individuals. Because of this, I wont be considering Mr Fs 
daughters agreement, including the additional deposit she paid and the difference between 
the payments on the agreements, as part of the remedy.
Putting things right
There was an intermittent issue with the media unit on the car. And, despite attempts to fix 
this, the faults remained. There was also a sporadic fault with the stop/start function, which 
caused the car to stop while it was being driven on several occasions. As Mr F was supplied with a brand-new car, its reasonable for him to assume that it would 
be in full working order and would remain so for a reasonable period of time after it was 
supplied. And, given the faults detailed above, this wasnt the case. So, while these faults 
didnt stop the car being used, they did impair the usage and enjoyment of the car.
The investigator recommended VWFS refund Mr F 15% of the payments hed made to 
compensate him for this impaired usage. And, had this not already been recommended, this 
is something I wouldve asked VWFS to do. While Mr F doesnt think this compensation is 
sufficient, he hasnt provided anything to show why the intermittent faults with the car caused 
a greater impact than the investigator had already considered. As such, I see no compelling 
reason to increase this payment.
It's also not disputed that, in May 2021, the supplying dealership had the car for four days 
while unsuccessfully trying to repair it. And, because no courtesy car was provided, this left 
Mr F without transportation. I havent seen anything to show me what (if any) transport costs 
Mr F incurred during these four days. Given this, I think its fair VWFS refund the equivalent 
of four days payments instead to compensate Mr F for the time he was paying for the car but 
didnt have either use of it or a replacement.
Finally, its clear from what Ive seen that Mr F suffered the inconvenience of having 
intermittent faults with the car, and from having to take time out to try and get this resolved. 
Because of this, Im in agreement with the investigator that VWFS should compensate him 
for this.
So, VWFS should:
refund 15% of the monthly payments Mr F paid;
refund Mr F the equivalent of four days payments, to cover the period he was without 
use of the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr F 
made the payments to the date of the refund;
remove any adverse credit relating to this agreement from Mr Fs credit file; and
pay Mr F an additional £150 for any distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman