DRN-3480755
The complaint
Mr T1, Mrs T1, Mr T2 and Mrs T2 are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined 
a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
Ill mainly refer to Mr T1 in my decision as he has brought the complaint on all the parties 
behalf.
What happened
Mr T1, Mrs T1, Mr T2 and Mrs T2 were insured on the same travel insurance policy for a 
cruise holiday. They took out the policy in May 2021 to cover a holiday in June 2021. They 
paid an extra premium for cruise plus cover. Cover for Covid-19 was also included within 
the policy. 
The cruise departed as planned but they were unable to dock at one of the ports, which Ill 
refer to as G. Mr T1 made a claim on the travel insurance policy for a change of cruise 
itinerary. The claim was declined as Great Lakes said there was no cover for claims arising 
from any epidemic, or pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Mr 
T1 said it was nothing to do with the WHO as it was Gs government that decided not to let 
the ship in. He said other governments did. Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline 
the claim. Unhappy, Mr T1 complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that the policy excluded claims for pandemics and Covid-19. And she noted the reason for 
the itinerary change was related to the government of G implementing restrictions related to 
Covid-19. She also thought that the limitations of the cover for Covid-19 were made 
sufficiently clear in the policy documentation. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to decline the claim. 
Mr T1 asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said it was a simple case of 
discrimination because Gs government allowed ferries to dock and the ship was barred from 
docking because it was registered abroad. He said there were clear mitigating 
circumstances. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says on page one there is no cover for: 
Covid-19, or any related/mutated form of the virus. Unless cover is specified 
within the policy wording. 
Any epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation. 
The policy terms and conditions say, in section 16: 
We will pay up to £75 for each port listed on your cruise itinerary that is missed 
due to adverse weather or timetable changes up to £500. 
But it says that there is no cover for anything mentioned in the additional exclusions applying 
to section 16, or general exclusions. The general exclusions say: 
No section of the policy shall apply in respect of: 
Claims arising from, or related to any coronavirus including but not limited 
COVID-19, or any related, mutated form of the virus unless specifically listed as 
covered by this policy; 
Claims arising from any epidemic, or pandemic as declared by the World Health 
Organisation. 
Was the claim unfairly declined?
Theres no dispute that Mr T1s itinerary changed because they didnt stop at G as planned. 
The reasons given by the Captain of the ship were: 
I regret to inform you that due to the latest announced [redacted] Government 
restrictions and regulations our port call of G has been cancelled because 
unfortunately no guest are allowed to embark or disembark in [redacted]. 
Im not upholding this complaint. I say that because: 
I think the policy documentation makes it sufficiently clear that there are limitations on 
the cover for Covid-19. The IPID explains that there is no cover unless its specified 
within the policy wording. And the Covid section of cover doesnt offer cover for the 
circumstances in which Mr T1 sought to claim. The policy covers emergency medical 
and repatriation expenses. And, it also covers cancellation or cutting a trip short in 
certain circumstances. But Mr T1s trip was not impacted by any of those issues as 
he missed one stop on the planned itinerary. So, theres no cover under this section 
of the policy for these circumstances The WHO declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020. I appreciate the 
WHO didnt direct that the ship couldnt dock in G. But I also have to consider the 
reason that the claim arose, as that is what the policy terms say. Mr T1 was travelling 
in the summer of 2021, after Covid-19 was declared to be a pandemic. And his claim 
arose because of port restrictions relating to the pandemic. I think thats clear from 
the information provided by the Captain of the ship as he specifically references 
Covid-19 restrictions 
Section 16 of the policy explains that this section of the policy is subject to the 
general exclusions in the policy. Theres no cover for claims arising from Covid-19 
unless its specifically listed as covered by the policy. As Ive outlined above theres 
no cover under the Covid-19 section of the policy for disruption to the itinerary of a 
cruise. And I think the IPID adequately highlights that cover for Covid is limited. So, I 
also think Great Lakes can fairly rely on this exclusion to decline the claim  
Ive taken into account Mr T1s comments that ferries were still running and that the 
government of G was discriminating against them by not allowing them to go into the 
port. I cant make a finding about whether the government was discriminating against 
Mr T1 or the ship he was travelling on  its not within my powers to do so. I can only 
consider the conduct of Great Lakes. And, having reviewed the evidence, Im 
satisfied the claim was fairly declined in line with the policy terms 
I dont think there are any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I can direct Great 
Lakes to cover the claim. Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and I dont 
think there are reasons, in the circumstances of this case, to depart from the policy 
terms and conditions 
Ive not considered the sale of the policy, only whether Mr T1s claim was fairly 
declined. Based on the available evidence I think it was.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T1, Mrs T1, 
Mrs T2 and Mr T2 to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman