DRN-1773917
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr S complain about how St Andrews Insurance Plc dealt with and settled a 
claim they made under their home insurance after their property was damaged by an escape 
of water.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr S held a household policy of insurance, which is underwritten by St Andrews 
Insurance Plc (St Andrews).
In November 2018 Mrs E and Mr S contacted St Andrews in order to make a claim for 
damage caused to their property by an escape of water. Several rooms were affected 
including Mrs E and Mr S utility room, playroom and hallway. They thought this damage had 
happened on 26 September 2018 due to a heating leak. 
St Andrews appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to deal with and oversee Mrs E 
and Mr S claim. They said, as part of the restoration works, their flooring had to be dug up, 
plaster was removed and drying equipment was installed. Mrs E and Mr S property was 
slow in responding to the drying process. So, heat mats were added to speed this up.
On 21 January 2019 Mrs E and Mr S property was certified as dry. The reinstatement works 
commenced. And the PCC emailed Mrs E and Mr S as theyd indicated they were 
considering carrying out alternative works in the affected parts of their home, which St 
Andrews considered to be betterment. 
On 19 February 2019 St Andrews said Mrs E told the PCC it could continue with insurance 
related repairs and any betterment works would be arranged at a later date. On 25 February 
2019 Mrs E and Mr S selected materials from a brochure theyd been provided with and 
repairs were scheduled to commence. St Andrews said Mrs E and Mr S were informed that if 
they wished to use their own suppliers this would incur additional cost for which theyd be 
responsible.   
All insurance related work was completed by 17 April 2019. But, on 18 April 2019, the PCC 
sent St Andrews an email showing an alternative plan for the utility room layout. It said the 
choices Mrs E and Mr S had made, which included solid wood worktops, a butler sink and an 
upgraded tap, were not like for like replacements. So, St Andrews said it explained to Mrs E 
and Mr S that its contractors would contact them with details of the additional costs these 
items would incur. And no further work was undertaken pending an agreement that Mrs E 
and Mr S would be responsible in meeting the additional costs of the upgrades theyd 
requested.
On 23 April 2019 Mrs E and Mr S received an invoice for £3164.40 to cover the cost of 
wooden flooring and the restoration of their utility room. They said this happened on the day 
work was due to commence and there was no discussion of these costs beforehand. Mrs E 
and Mr S said they were advised that if they didnt pay this invoice in full reinstatement work 
wouldnt proceed. 
Mrs E and Mr S said, as they wanted the work to commence, they had no alternative but to 
pay the invoice, So, they made the requested payment on 3 May 2019. They then 
complained to St Andrews about what had happened.
When St Andrews responded to Mrs E and Mr S complaint it explained that it considered 
some of the repairs to their property to be betterment, which was excluded under the terms 
of their insurance policy. And it said it had made it clear from the outset of their claim that 
theyd be responsible for additional costs relating to upgraded choices. So, it thought it had 
been fair in asking them to pay. However, while it didnt uphold this part of Mrs E and Mr S 
complaint it acknowledged that its appointed contractors hadnt proactively provided details 
of the additional costs theyd need to pay. It apologised for that error and offered to pay £75 
compensation in recognition of this, which Mrs E and Mr S declined.
Being dissatisfied with how St Andrews had dealt with their complaint, Mrs E and Mr S 
referred it to our service. Their complaint was reviewed by an investigator. But they didnt 
recommend upholding it. They thought St Andrews had dealt with this complaint fairly and 
offered a reasonable amount of compensation to put matters right. So, they didnt ask it to do 
anything else. But Mrs E and Mr S disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint 
and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Mrs E, Mr S and St Andrews for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. I understand Mrs E and Mr S wanted to speak to me before I issue my 
decision. While I can understand why they may want this, the information I have is clear - I 
dont need any more to be able to reach a decision. So, Im satisfied that I have enough 
information to issue my final decision without needing to speak to Mrs E and Mr S. 
Ive considered all the information provided by both parties when reaching my decision. If I 
havent specifically referred to a point that Mrs E, Mr S or St Andrews have made it isnt 
because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, 
which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs E and Mr S experienced here. I know they feel 
very strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why theyve brought their 
complaint to our service. But, while I sympathise with Mrs E and Mr S, the issue that I must 
determine is whether St Andrews acted fairly and reasonably.
There are a number of parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal 
with them separately. 
Did St Andrews act unfairly in considering some of the work undertaken to be betterment?
Ive seen a photograph of how Mrs E and Mr S utility room looked prior to the escape of 
water. It appears there was a mixture of tower and wall units with a laminate worktop and 
stainless steel sink.
I can see that as part of the reinstatement works St Andrews offered to provide Mrs E and 
Mr S with a laminate wood effect worktop without them having to make a contribution 
towards the cost of this item. I can also see it intended to reinstate their utility room based on 
the original layout. However, Mrs E and Mr S chose to change the layout of their utility room. They wanted to move their wall units to the floor and replace the tower units with base units. 
This change meant their worktop became larger in size and heavier to the one it replaced. 
Under the terms of Mrs E and Mr S policy, St Andrews responsibility is to return areas 
affected by the escape of water to its pre-loss state. This is because an insurance policy is 
intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to their loss occurring or 
as close as is possible.
I understand that Mrs E and Mr S chose to replace the original worktop in their utility room 
with a solid oak worktop. Its clear this was betterment as it was an upgrade from the 
laminate that was there previously. This therefore created additional expense for which Mrs 
E and Mr S are responsible. 
It appears Mrs E and Mr S chose units to a worktop that were similar in design to those 
installed in their kitchen, which isnt affected by this claim. They also opted for a Belfast sink 
and ornate tap, which were upgraded from what was there previously. And, given that St 
Andrews would have been able to reuse the original sink and tap, its fair that Mrs E and Mr 
S were asked to pay for the replacements they chose. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Mrs E and Mr S choices constituted an 
upgrade. Ive also seen evidence that shows more work was required in reinstating their 
utility room, which resulted in additional labour costs. So, I cant fairly find that St Andrews 
acted unreasonably in considering Mrs E and Mr S choices as betterment. And I also dont 
think it was unfair that Mrs E and Mr S choices incurred an additional cost.
Did St Andrews act fairly in asking Mrs E and Mr S to contribute to the cost of the flooring?
Mrs E and Mr S chose to change the floor in their playroom from tiles to engineered wood. 
The evidence Ive seen demonstrates that this required additional preparation and damp 
proofing. And while Mrs E and Mr S believe the flooring they chose was inferior to the 
previous flooring its clear to me that it required additional work to install and seal. This 
explains why there were higher installation costs. I therefore dont think it was unreasonable 
for St Andrews to pass on those cost to Mrs E and Mr S.
I understand that Mrs E and Mr S feel some of the work theyve been asked to fund could 
have been absorbed by cost saving measures arising from choices they made. But St 
Andrews provided the scope of works to our service, which sets out in detail the work 
undertaken on Mrs E and Mr S property and the costs this incurred. Ive carefully considered 
this document and, like our investigator, Im satisfied that the figures adopted by St Andrews 
in calculating the cost have been justified and are fair. 
Did St Andrews inform Mrs E and Mr S that theyd need to pay for additional work?
Mrs E and Mr S refute St Andrews suggestion that it made them aware that the choices 
theyd made would incur additional costs. But Ive seen very detailed systems notes and 
emails, which evidence discussions St Andrews had with Mrs E and Mr S about the 
reinstatement of their home. And, based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Mrs E and Mr 
S were made aware in January 2019 that any choices which might be considered to be 
betterment would attract additional cost. 
Ive had sight of an email St Andrews sent Mrs E and Mr S at around this time in which it 
confirmed their policy allowed for reinstatement of their property to its pre-loss state on a like 
for like basis and, if they were planning major changes that weren't on a like for like basis, 
theyd need to fund any additional costs this may incur. Im therefore persuaded overall that, based on the information St Andrews provided Mrs E 
and Mr S, they ought to have been aware any work that was considered to be betterment 
would incur an additional cost. And I dont think St Andrews made an error in this regard.
However, where I think matters could have been handled better is in relation to how the St 
Andrews communicated to Mrs E and Mr S how much theyd have to pay. I think it was 
unfair to inform them theyd have to pay almost £3200 on the day work was due to be 
commenced. Thats a significant amount to be asked to pay and they should have been 
given much more notice. Its unclear why they St Andrews couldnt have provided specific 
information about the cost Mrs E and Mr S would be required to pay soon after making their 
choices, which they did in February 2019. I can therefore understand how this caused upset, 
distress and inconvenience.
Its clear that what happened caused an avoidable delay in the completion of the work Mrs E 
and Mr S wanted because the work couldnt take place until they made the requested 
payment. I dont think it was unreasonable for the contractors St Andrews appointed to 
require payment in advance of the work being undertaken. I say this because the materials 
that were required couldnt have been ordered until theyd been paid for. And, as this was 
betterment work, St Andrews werent responsible for those costs. So, it wasnt unreasonable 
for payment to have been requested in advance from Mrs E and Mr S. 
St Andrews has apologised for how it handled communication about costs. And its offered to 
compensate Mrs E and Mr S £75 for the impact this had. I can see they dont think this 
adequately reflects their experience. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that 
additional compensation is warranted here. And, having thought very carefully about the 
impact all of this would have had on Mrs E and Mr S, Im satisfied that the compensation 
already offered reflects the overall trouble and upset they would have been caused. Its in 
line with awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and its what I would 
have told St Andrews to pay. So, I wont be ordering it to pay any more.
Concerns about the quality on the work undertaken and delays Mrs E and Mr S experienced
I can see that Mrs E and Mr S have expressed concerns about the quality of work 
undertaken on their property and the delays they experienced in the work being finalised. 
Ive looked carefully at the claim form Mrs E and Mr S provided to our service and the 
information contained within their complaint to St Andrews. As these issues didnt form part 
of their original complaint, Mrs E and Mr S will have to refer these concerns to St Andrews 
first so it can investigate and respond to their concerns.
In the overall circumstances, I think St Andrews has dealt with this complaint fairly and done 
all it can to resolve Mrs E and Mr S dispute. Im therefore not upholding their complaint.
I realise Mrs E and Mr S will be disappointed with this decision and I appreciate the reasons 
why they brought their complaint to our service. But this brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve their dispute with St Andrews informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs E and Mr S any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I am aware that St Andrews Insurance 
Plc has made an offer to pay £75 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that St Andrews Insurance Plc should 
pay Mrs E and Mr S £75, if it hasnt done so already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman