DRN-2818982
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about the way TICORP Limited sold them their annual travel 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs N bought their travel insurance policy through Staysure. Staysure is a trading 
name of TICORP Limited. So Ive referred to TICORP Limited as Staysure throughout this 
decision.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs N took out an annual travel insurance policy over the phone through 
Staysure. The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call G. Mrs N paid around £240 for 
the policy, which provided cover between 6 November 2019 and 5 November 2020. Initially, 
Mrs N intended to add an optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) to the policy, but 
ultimately decided against it.
Mr and Mrs N travelled abroad in February 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic, their pre-booked return flights were cancelled by their airline and the trip had to 
be extended. Mr and Mrs N had to arrange new flights back to the UK and incurred 
additional expenses associated with staying abroad longer than theyd planned. They 
contacted Staysure to look into whether they were due any compensation for the costs 
theyd incurred.
Staysure let Mr and Mrs N know that as theyd decided against taking out the TDE, they 
wouldnt be able to make a claim to G for their costs. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with the way Staysure had sold their policy. While Mrs N 
acknowledged shed been offered the TDE, she hadnt felt it would be necessary given their 
destination. And she said Staysure hadnt given her any information about Covid-19 at the 
time of sale. So Mr and Mrs N asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Staysure had treated Mr and Mrs N unfairly. He explained that 
Staysure wasnt responsible for considering or paying claims, so he couldnt ask it to meet 
Mr and Mrs Ns costs. Hed listened to a call between Mrs N and Staysure and he was 
satisfied that Mrs N had decided against adding the TDE to the policy. He felt the policy 
documentation made the available cover clear. So he didnt recommend that Staysure 
should pay Mr and Mrs N any compensation.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed. They said they felt the Covid-19 pandemic had given companies 
the excuse not to pay any compensation to policyholders trapped overseas.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make it clear that I will only be 
considering the way Staysure sold Mr and Mrs Ns policy. As our investigator explained, 
Staysure doesnt underwrite Mr and Mrs Ns contract. It simply acts as a broker. This means 
it cant assess or pay claims under the policy. If Mr and Mrs N would like to make a claim for 
the costs they incurred, its open to them to contact G to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N, I dont think Staysure has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
Staysure didnt advise Mr and Mrs N to take out their travel insurance policy. This means it 
didnt need to make sure it was suitable for them. But it did need to give them enough clear, 
fair and not misleading information so they could decide if it was right for their needs.
In this case, like the investigator, Ive listened to a call between Mr and Mrs N and Staysures 
agent. This call took place in October 2019. During the call, the sales agent referred to the 
TDE cover (which he referred to as natural disaster cover) and checked whether or not Mrs 
N wanted to add it to the policy. Mrs N clearly stated that she didnt want to add the cover (or 
another add-on) because of the impact on the overall price of the policy. Mrs N queried 
whether the TDE cover covered things like flooding, to which the agent agreed.
Like the investigator, I think the sales agent couldve done more to explain to Mrs N what the 
TDE was and how it worked. He mentioned the cover only briefly during the call. But in order 
for me to find that the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs N on this basis, Id need to be 
persuaded that theyd have acted differently if the agent had given clearer information. 
In this case, neither party couldve foreseen the Covid-19 pandemic which would happen a 
few months later and have such a large impact on travel. So I wouldnt reasonably have 
expected the sales agent to discuss such a possibility with Mrs N during the call. It doesnt 
seem that Mrs N thought shed need to make a claim for a natural disaster while she was 
away. So I dont think this type of cover wouldve been important to her at this point. And 
from the call, Im satisfied that keeping the price down was an important consideration for 
her. I say that because Mrs N specifically referred to the two additional cover options shed 
been given adding around £100 to the price. So based on the information available to Mrs N 
about travel and her destination at the time the policy was sold to her, Im not persuaded 
shed have paid for TDE cover to be added even if the sales agent had more fully explained 
the relevant terms.
Mr and Mrs N also accept that Staysure sent them the policy paperwork, including their 
schedule and the contract terms after the policy had been sold to them. The contract terms 
fully set out details of the TDE and how it worked. The policy was taken out about three 
months before Mr and Mrs N travelled. I wouldnt necessarily expect a policyholder to read 
and understand the terms of a policy in detail. But I do think it was open to them to look into 
the terms of the TDE cover and to check if it was something which could be useful to them 
ahead of their departure. This wouldve enabled them to add the cover to the policy before 
they travelled, if they wished to do so.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ns position, I dont think Staysure has 
done anything wrong which it needs to put right. So Im not telling it to pay any 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman