DRN-1463179
The complaint
Ms B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) accepted liability on her behalf following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants this claim changed to non-fault. Shes 
also unhappy with UKIs level of service and wants compensation and reimbursement of her 
costs. 
What happened
Ms B drove into an unattended car which she said was illegally parked. UKI reviewed CCTV 
footage and accepted liability for the accident. But Ms B thought UKI hadnt investigated the 
incident fully as it hadnt contacted the police or the council, as she had, and considered her 
legal advice. She thought the owner of the parked car should share liability. UKI agreed that 
it hadnt communicated with Ms B as it should have, and it offered her £75 compensation for 
this. Ms B remained unhappy and wanted UKI to reimburse her legal costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to decide how to settle the claim. She 
thought it had done this after reasonably considering the evidence and the likelihood of 
defending the claim in court. She thought it didnt need to contact the police, the council or 
Ms Bs legal advisor. She thought UKI should have done more to respond to Ms Bs 
communications and also told her about its intention to accept liability. But she thought £75 
was sufficient compensation for this. But she didnt think UKI was responsible for Ms Bs 
legal costs.
Ms B replied that she thought UKI hadnt fairly or reasonably settled her claim. She cited 
another consumers complaint that had come to our service. She thought that UKI should 
have investigated whether the car was illegally, dangerously and obstructively parked and 
considered whether this affected liability. She thought UKI should have asked the council to 
accept responsibility. She said UKI had suggested she seek legal advice when it had no 
intention of considering it. Ms B asked for an ombudsmans review, so her complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Bs frustration that shes been held liable for the accident when she 
thinks that the other driver and the local council should take some responsibility. Ms B has 
cited other complaints that have come to our service. But we consider each case on its 
merits. 
As Ms B is aware, and as the investigator has already explained, it isnt our role to decide 
who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role 
in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to 
settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy? And has it treated Ms B the same as someone else in her position. 
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Ms B to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Ms B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Ive looked at UKIs file. It initially held Ms B at fault due to the circumstances of her hitting a 
parked car. It then reviewed this, after receiving an email from Ms B, and looked to see if the 
other drivers negligence had contributed to liability. 
UKI then received and considered CCTV footage of the incident provided by the other driver. 
UKI said this showed that Ms B hit a parked and stationary car. Ive seen stills of this footage 
and I think this was a reasonable conclusion and Ms B doesnt disagree with it. 
Ms B said the car was illegally parked. But UKI said she had a duty of care not to hit parked 
cars, regardless of whether theyre parked illegally. It reviewed liability again and thought 
that if the car was obstructing Ms B then she should have called the authorities. 
Ms B said there had been previous problems with parking in the road. She said this had 
been raised with the council, but it hadnt acted on it before the accident. She suggested that 
UKI should have raised this with the council to get it to accept some responsibility. UKI, in its 
response to Ms Bs complaint, agreed that the council may have had an issue about road 
safety. But it said this had no bearing on its liability decision. So I think UKI did consider the 
councils role. 
Ms B said the police were not taking action and referred her to the council. So I cant see 
that contacting the police would provide further evidence for UKI to consider. 
Ms B said an independent witness was prepared to give evidence, but UKI didnt take this 
up. But the witness would confirm what happened, and theres no dispute over this. So I 
cant see that UKI should have contacted the witness. 
Ms B said UKI suggested that she seek legal advice, but it then ignored this. Ms B said the 
legal advice was that it was unlikely that she was solely responsible for the accident. UKI 
said that it didnt tell Ms B that her legal advice would change its liability decision. 
The suggestion for obtaining legal advice arose when UKI first told Ms B about its liability 
decision. UKI said Ms B had the greater duty of care and it would be unable to defend this 
claim. It said it would have to accept responsibility for the incident and if you wish you can 
seek legal advice on this. I dont think UKI advised Ms B to seek legal advice and it didnt 
tell her that it would consider it. And so I dont think UKI is obliged to reimburse Ms B for this.
So I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making its decision about liability. I think it responded to Ms Bs email and reviewed 
its decision in light of the other drivers negligence. I dont think a police report, or a witness 
statement would have provided further evidence for it to consider. UKI considered the 
councils road safety and decided it wouldnt affect its decision. I cant see that UKI was 
required to accept Ms Bs legal advice. Ms B said UKI agreed to not make its decision on liability without telling her first. I can see 
that UKI sent Ms B a letter after the incident saying that, because of the accident 
circumstances, it would be accepting liability and settling the other drivers claim. It then 
didnt accept liability until after it had reviewed the CCTV footage. So, although it didnt keep 
its promise, I dont think this caused Ms B any loss as I dont think she would have changed 
its decision. 
UKI agreed that its communication with Ms B had been poor. It hadnt responded to all her 
emails. It said it couldnt contact her when it had only tried to do this by phone, when her 
preference was for emails. UKI offered Ms B £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar 
circumstances. I dont require UKI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman