DRN-1695934
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
In 2000 Mr and Mrs T took out PPI during a meeting at a Halifax branch. The policy covered 
Mr T and it protected their monthly mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion. Their main complaint is that they dont recall ever discussing PPI or agreeing to take 
out the policy. They told us that extra insurance wasnt something they ever took out and 
they wouldnt have taken out the PPI if it had been offered to them.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Heres why I say this.
Although PPI was taken out just for Mr T, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs T, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances at the time. 
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs T mightnt be able to remember in detail everything that 
happened when they arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
Whilst I havent seen anything signed by Mr and Mrs T to show me how they took out the 
PPI, it looks like while they were in the process of arranging their mortgage they also 
completed a separate PPI application. I say this because Ive seen a copy of a form which 
shows Mr T was named as the person to be insured. Questions to check eligibility were 
completed and Mr T provided information about his health. 
Where Mr T had to sign the completed form its marked to say as app form. And its dated 
around the time Mr and Mrs T were arranging a remortgage in order to take out some extra 
borrowing.
There wasnt anything so far as I can see on their remortgage application which mentioned 
having PPI. So I think Mr and Mrs T wouldve understood that it was up to them to say if they 
wanted to have it when they were arranging their remortgage. Their mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs T found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. Even if they hadnt wanted to take out PPI before with their mortgage, they 
were now remortgaging and borrowing significantly more money. And having the policy gave 
them extra protection and better cover than they had in place without it. So I can understand 
why they mightve wanted to have PPI at the time  even if thats something theyve now 
forgotten. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T decided they wanted to protect their 
home by taking advantage of the benefits that PPI offered and they chose to buy the policy 
to cover Mr T. 
Halifax says it recommended PPI and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr T was eligible for the policy. He was covered for disability and unemployment. If he made 
a successful disability claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim. This 
was longer than he told us he couldve relied on his employer for sick pay. And the monthly 
benefit wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay he mightve received through work. This 
couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra costs as a result of illness or disability. 
PPI also protected Mr T for up to 24 months per claim in the event he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs T had some savings. But there was no 
guarantee when Mr and Mrs T took out this mortgage that they would always have savings 
to rely on. And, bearing in mind that it appears they didnt put all their money towards 
keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think they mightve valued the protection PPI offered if 
it meant they could keep savings intact to spend on other things or to provide financial 
security for the future.  
The policy provided long term protection as Mr T couldve made repeated claims on it. 
The remortgage was taken out over a 20 year term when Mr T was the main earner. So 
I think its likely that losing Mr Ts income wouldve had a substantial impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ts joint financial circumstances  PPI protected them against that risk. So, 
overall, I think that Halifaxs recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr T wouldve been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more information about 
the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the monthly policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when they didnt have to. And there was an indication of the 
likely cost set out on the PPI application they filled in. So they wouldve had some idea of the 
monthly premium and they seem to have been happy to pay it at the time. It looks like 
Mr and Mrs T also chose to buy some extra benefit to protect mortgage related costs, as well 
as the mortgage monthly repayments. So it doesnt look as if paying for the cover was a 
problem for them.
As this was a policy they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs T wouldve been able to cancel 
the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay for it.  Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs T still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr T even if theyd been 
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
So, overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong. This means there isnt anything Halifax needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman