DRN-3721586
The complaint
Mrs L and Mrs H as trustees of the L Trust have complained that Advance Mortgage 
Funding Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network (Primis) mis-advised Mr L.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties. In summary In March 2021 Mrs L and Mr L met 
online with an adviser from Primis as they wished to increase the borrowing and term of their 
mortgage and review their protection needs. Primis recommended that Mrs L and Mr L took 
out a decreasing life assurance policy with a sum assured to match the new borrowing.  The 
adviser also recommended that Mrs L take out a critical illness policy and cancel her existing 
life only cover.
Tragically Mr L took his own life in September 2021 and the trustees submitted a claim. 
When the claim was declined the trust complained that they had been mis-advised. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L appealed on behalf of the 
trust. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint. Im grateful to Mrs L for her detailed 
submissions and I recognise that this will come as very unwelcome news to the trustees, 
Mrs L in particular, at this difficult and distressing time.
I will explain my decision. I should say if theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I find is the right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Ive carefully considered the recommendation made by the adviser. I should set out that the 
Primis adviser was obliged to ensure that the recommendations she made were in 
accordance with Mr and Mrs Ls demands and needs. She had to take reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of the advice she was giving to Mr and Mrs L who were entitled to rely 
on her judgement.
The adviser recommended a decreasing term assurance policy that matched the amount 
that Mr L and Mrs L were borrowing. I find that this was a suitable recommendation. She 
recommended a term which matched the mortgage. The demands and needs letter set out 
what you should do with your existing cover. The adviser recommended that an existing 
policy with decreasing life cover was cancelled as it was insufficient to repay the mortgage 
balance. I dont find that this advice was unsuitable  as a policy that did march the amount 
and term of the mortgage was recommended to replace it. I understand that Mrs L had made 
an enquiry as to whether the existing life cover could be increased. But I dont find that the 
recommendation to take a new policy for the whole amount was unreasonable or unsuitable 
advice.
I cant see that the adviser specifically told Mr and Mrs L to cancel the existing life cover. 
What she did say was not to cancel anything until the new policy commenced  this was 
sensible. The recommended cover was sufficient  there was no reason for the adviser to 
tell Mr and Mrs L to retain the existing cover for additional family protection  although it was 
open to them to do so.
The policy that the adviser recommended wasnt unusual in that it wouldnt pay claims made 
in the first 12 months of the policy made because of suicide or self inflicted injury. I do 
understand Mrs Ls point that both she and Mr L had declared that they suffered with 
depression. But it is fair to point out that Mr L answered no to the question as to whether 
hed had suicidal thoughts. Accordingly I dont find that the adviser, or anyone else, could 
have anticipated the tragic turn of events. It follows that I dont find the advice she gave was 
unsuitable. In all the circumstances I dont find that the adviser mis-advised Mrs L and Mr L. 
I understand that following the declined claim the policy was cancelled. I appreciate the 
concern that this has caused. However this wasnt an action taken by Primis, so Im not able 
to address this point in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mrs H 
as trustees of the L Trust to accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman