DRN-1128388
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with their insurers Esure Insurance Limited (Esure).  They have 
declined their claim under their home contents insurance.  Mr and Mrs E would like the 
insurers to settle the claim.   
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs E returned home to find that their house had been ransacked and 
a number of items stolen.  They reported the matter to the police and their insurers Esure.  
They received a crime reference number from the police, who also sent a forensic team to 
look for any evidence and in particular the point of entry and exit the burglars used.  The 
forensic officers found some smudges on mirrored surfaces, but found no DNA, fingerprints 
or any other evidence that could identify who the thieves were or where the point of 
entry/exit was.  
 
The police seized and watched CCTV footage.  That footage showed two men around the 
time of the incident in the area.  It showed the men initially not holding anything and later 
holding bags.  Unfortunately police could not identify who those people were.  The police 
wrote a report in which it detailed the lack of forensic evidence and also stated that entry and 
exit to the property was not gained by force or violence.  All this information was passed to 
Esure.  Due to the policy exclusion, Esure declined Mr and Mrs Es claim.  In the policy 
exclusion it stated that: 
 
2. Theft or attempted theft. What is not covered:
 We will not pay for the loss or damage to Your contents:
Caused while You and Your Household are away from the Home unless violence and force 
is used to enter or leave your Buildings.
 
Mr and Mrs E were upset and took the complaint to our service.  
 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint concluding that Esure had acted fairly by 
applying the exclusion policy to the claim.  Mr and Mrs E did not agree and the complaint 
was passed to me. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I will not be upholding 
this complaint.  I will now give you my reasons why.
 
I have to assess what steps Esure took when dealing with Mr and Mrs E and whether they 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards them. I have been provided with the policy schedule 
from Esure.  In that document there is an exclusion that details what is not covered in the 
policy.  If as in this case, entry was gained without any force or violence used, then Esure 
will decline the claim.  Esure have not disputed that a theft occurred but have declined the 
claim on the basis of the exclusion policy.  In addition, Mr and Mrs E stated that the back 
door key was in the lock and the door was unlocked. 
 
In the absence of any evidence that can show that there was forced entry or violence to 
secure entry, then I can not find that Esure treated Mr and Mrs E unfairly or unreasonably 
when applying this exclusion policy to the claim.  I am sorry that this whole experience which 
must have been a shocking and distressing one has resulted in a decision that Esure made 
but I have to be satisfied that Esure acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying this policy and 
I can not be satisfied that they did.    I am afraid that there are no reasonable grounds on 
which I can ask Esure to do anymore.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman