DRN-3372603
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly refused to meet a claim 
hes made.
What happened
Mr C is a beneficiary of an insurance policy bought by his employer for the benefit of its 
employees. Aviva underwrites the policy, which provides cash benefits for sickness and 
accident in certain circumstances.
Mr C retired on ill health grounds in 2021, because was no longer able to carry out his full 
duties. He suffers from the physical after-effects of a car crash, and also from complex post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Mr C made a claim on the policy for total permanent disablement which would pay a 
considerable sum if successful. He said an accident in 2016 had left him with permanent 
neck injuries and had also been the start point for his PTSD.
Aviva acknowledged that Mr C has permanent injuries  in particular the PTSD. But it also 
said that to make a successful claim of this kind, Mr C had to prove he cant do any sort of 
paid work, and that this is likely to continue indefinitely. And it said that a claim for total 
permanent disablement had to be the result of an (i.e. one) accident  and that total 
disablement had to be evident within two years. It said it wouldnt meet the claim, as Mr Cs 
injuries didnt prevent him from undertaking any work  only, recently, his old job. It also said 
that as Mr C had continued to be employed until 2021, this was clearly outside the two year 
timeframe which started in 2016. And although it acknowledged that Mr C had been involved 
in a series of difficult and disturbing events, which contributed to his PTSD, these didnt 
amount to a single accident. 
Mr C complained but Aviva didnt change its position, so he asked us to review the 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva need do more than it already had. He thought it 
reasonable that Aviva rely on an independent medical report when assessing Mr Cs illness, 
and that it had fairly interpreted the terms and conditions of the policy when it decided it 
need not meet the claim.
Mr C disagrees and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry that Mr C has found himself in a situation where his health has deteriorated 
to the point where he can no longer follow his chosen profession.
Having looked at the evidence both he and Aviva have sent us, Im afraid I cannot uphold his 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr C wants to hear, but I will explain how Ive reached my 
conclusions. If I dont mention a particular point its because Ive concentrated on the main 
issues in Mr Cs complaint.
Aviva doesnt dispute that Mr C is unwell and seriously affected by his condition. But it says 
his circumstances dont fit the relevant terms and conditions in his insurance policy that 
would allow a successful claim. Aviva is required to interpret the terms and conditions fairly 
when deciding if it should meet a claim, so Ive looked carefully at these to check its done 
that.
In summary, Mr Cs policy covers injuries from accidents and unexpected illness, where 
these prevent a policyholder from working. Different injuries attract different payments, 
depending upon the severity of the effect they have on the policyholder.
The policy says, in summary, that a permanent total disability must be the result of either an 
accident or exposure (to inclement weather). I dont think I need say anything more about 
exposure as Mr C hasnt claimed for an injury thats the result of being exposed to bad 
weather. Accident is defined as a sudden violent external unforeseen and identifiable Event 
and Event is defined as Each and every individual loss or series of losses
arising out of one event or one catastrophic Accident during any one period of 72 hours.
Mr C was signed off on what became long term sick leave in early 2020. So he couldnt work 
from then until he was retired on grounds of ill-health. I think its fair to say this is the date 
that should be used for assessing whether Mr C became permanently disabled within two 
years of an accident.
Theres no question that Mr C was involved in a car accident in 2016 and that he suffered 
neck problems and anxiety after this. But he carried on working for more than three years 
after the accident, so I think Aviva has fairly concluded that Mr Cs disability didnt become 
permanent within two years of this.
Ive also thought about whether Mr Cs PTSD became a disabling condition within two years 
of an event. To qualify, hed need a medical opinion that confirmed his PTSD was the result 
of one event as described above. And the event would have had to have taken place after 
early 2018 to fit the two year timescale. Although the medical reports say that the 2016 
accident left Mr C more vulnerable to PTSD, they dont say he suffered this at the time. 
Instead they conclude that a later series of disturbing events led to his current condition. 
From what Mr C says, these took place over a period of time and the PTSD became a real 
issue in 2019. I havent seen anything that shows that Mr Cs PTSD was the result of one 
event, and hed have to show that to make a successful claim.
I think Aviva has interpreted the terms and the conditions fairly when concluding the claim 
fell outside the policy time limit of two years. 
Im also aware that although the 2021 medical report confirms Mr C can no longer follow his 
chosen profession, it doesnt say he cant undertake any form of work. Instead it 
recommends treatment and a further assessment, but suggests he may be able to do some 
form of work in the future. 
Taking everything into account, I cant say Aviva assessed Mr Cs claim unfairly. So I cant 
ask it to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman