DRN-3029589
The complaint
Mr R complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased his premium 
for his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Acromas includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr R took out a mechanical breakdown insurance policy with Acromas in 2018, which he 
paid for on a monthly basis. His policy then renewed in 2019 and again in 2020. Mr R 
noticed the amount he was being charged had gone up, so he called Acromas. He said his 
policy was now double what it had been before, and he hadnt been made aware of any 
premium increases. 
Acromas looked into Mr Rs premium increase and said it had written to him before his policy 
was due to renew to let him know it would increase. However, Acromas reviewed Mr Rs 
premium and a discount was applied to it for him. As it was still more than he was paying 
before, Mr R complained. He said hed been told previously that his premium would only 
increase by a few pounds and would be similar to the premium for his previous policy. 
Acromas looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said its premiums are reviewed 
each year and a number of factors are taken into account, such as claims history etc. It also 
said it had written to Mr R to let him know of any premium increase, as per the terms and 
conditions and that it couldnt find any record of Mr R being told his premiums would be 
roughly the same each year. Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint here, he said his 
policy had doubled to what hed previously paid and hed been told it would only increase by 
a few pounds. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that Acromas 
had written to Mr R before each renewal to let him know his premium for the next year. She 
also listened to the available calls between Mr R and Acromas and couldnt find that hed 
been told his premiums wouldnt go up. Mr R didnt agree, he said our investigator was 
biased and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has a policy which provides several benefits which he pays for in one monthly 
payment. In this decision Im only able to consider the premium Acromas charges for its 
mechanical breakdown insurance policy. This is because the premiums for the different parts 
of Mr Rs policy are set by other businesses and I can only consider the actions of Acromas 
in this decision. 
The term and conditions or Mr Rs policy say under Renewal and Annual Review:
we will write to the Member, giving at least two weeks notice, to confirm whether the 
membership will be renewed and will provide details of any changes to the premium and the 
Terms and Conditions applicable to the membership for the next membership period. 
I can see Acromas wrote to Mr R on 11 August 2019 to let him know that his monthly 
premium would increase at renewal on 30 October 2019. For the next renewal Mr R was 
sent a letter on 12 August 2020 to let him know about the premium increase for the next year 
and that it would take effect on 30 October 2020. 
In both of these letters it explains the cost of the mechanical breakdown insurance policy, 
which is referred to in the letters as Breakdown Repair Cover. I can see the price for this 
increased from Mr Rs 2018 policy to his 2019 one. But then remained the same for his 2020 
policy. So, I dont think Acromas has done anything wrong and has complied with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, by writing to Mr R more than two weeks before his policy was 
due to renew to let him know the premium. 
I appreciate Mr R has said he never received these letters, I can see theyve been 
addressed correctly and Acromas has no record of them being returned as undelivered. I 
can also see that when Mr R queried the premiums each year, as he noticed the payments 
from his account increased, a discount was applied for him which was also applied 
retrospectively to the start of the policy. So, while Mr R may not have received these letters 
Acromas has done what it was supposed to under the terms and conditions and Mr R has 
also had discounts applied to reduce the premium for him. Im therefore not going to tell 
Acromas to do anything else. 
Ive also considered Mr Rs point about being told his premiums wouldnt increase more than 
a few pounds. While I havent seen anything to support this other than Mr Rs comments, 
even if Mr R was told this, Acromas wrote to Mr R before his policies renewed to let him 
know the premium. Also, when he did query the premium a discount was applied, and he 
accepted the lower premium. So, Im not persuaded Acromas has done something wrong 
which has caused Mr R a financial loss he wouldnt otherwise have had. It follows that I 
therefore wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
him, but I hope my explanation is helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman