DRN-3611763
The complaint
Mr T complains about the handling of his legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim by Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) and their failure to pay all his accountants fees 
relating to an HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) investigation.
Where I refer to LV, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr T was notified by HMRC that they were investigating his business 
accounts for 2017/2018. Mr T notified LV of a claim under the Tax Protection section of his 
LEI policy and told them he was instructing his accountants to deal with HMRC.
LV asked Mr T to provide documents in support of his claim in October 2018. Based on 
what he provided, they were satisfied he had cover under the policy for professional fees 
associated with the HMRC investigation. They appointed tax specialists to supervise Mr Ts 
accountants in dealing with HMRC.
LV agreed to pay initial invoices from Mr Ts accountants, but they refused to pay later 
invoices on grounds Mr Ts claim turned out not to be covered under the policy.
Mr T complained LV hadnt communicated with him about his claim and they hadnt let 
him know they wouldnt pay all the accountants fees. He said if theyd told him, he would 
have liaised with HMRC himself and avoided the fees he became liable to pay the 
accountants. To put things right, he thought LV should pay the outstanding accountants 
fees.
LV didnt uphold his complaint. So, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator said LV had applied the policy correctly and didnt think they had treated Mr T 
unfairly. Since he didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued 
a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ts strength of feeling about what happened. And Im sorry to hear the 
situation impacted his health. But, for the reasons Ill explain, based on what I know so far, 
I dont intend to uphold his complaint. Since my reasons are partly different to our 
investigators, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to 
comment.
I can understand why Mr Ts said the terms of the policy arent relevant to determining the 
outcome of his complaint. He argues LV should pay all the accountants fees since LV were 
in breach of duty in failing to let him know they wouldnt pay some of them. Wed expect an 
insurer to handle a claim promptly and fairly, provide appropriate information on its 
progress, and not unreasonably reject a claim, in line with the relevant rules laid down by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. But the policy is the starting point for determining whether 
an insurer has treated a customer fairly.
Mr Ts policy provided the following cover, subject to the terms and conditions of the 
policy and any exclusions:
Sub-Section D - Tax Protection
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Professional Expenses incurred 
in respect of representation of the Insured in an Inland Revenue Investigation 
including representation at a First-tier Tribunal and at an appeal against a decision 
following such a Tribunal provided that there is a reasonable prospect of reducing the 
liabilities alleged by HMRC.
Cover under that sub-section was subject to certain exclusions, including that LV would 
not be liable to indemnify Mr T in respect of:
taxation proceedings arising out of negligent mis-statements or omissions made 
by or on behalf of Mr T in respect of returns or accounts or where there had been 
a lack of reasonable care in the keeping of business books and records
the preparation and/or correction of self-assessment returns, accounts, Income 
Tax Returns, P11Ds, P35s, VAT returns or any other statutory returns.
Exclusions relating to the LEI cover generally included:
Any professional fees incurred without the insurers prior written consent or in 
excess of that consent
Any claim arising from the insureds intentional wrongdoing or an act or omission 
with negligent disregard as to its consequences
I think what happened fell within these exclusions since, broadly, HMRC found the errors 
in Mr Ts accounts were due to careless mistakes so the costs of dealing with HMRC 
werent covered. Any fees incurred for reconstructing the accounts to put right those 
mistakes werent covered either. And the accountants fees werent authorised before they 
were incurred.
It was a condition of the LEI cover that:
The Insured must take all reasonable precautions to avoid and prevent Claims Inland 
Revenue Investigations legal proceedings and disputes. The Insured must use every 
endeavour and take all reasonable measures to minimise the cost and effect of any 
Claim.
I think this condition gave LV further grounds to refuse to meet any of the fees as the 
outcome of the HMRC investigation suggested Mr T was in breach of this condition.
It was also a condition of the policy that LV would only indemnify Mr T if their consent in 
writing was obtained before any professional expenses were incurred. The policy set out that 
giving consent did not imply that all professional fees would be paid. And it said that if, after 
consent had been given, it was shown that the claim had not been brought within the terms 
and conditions of the policy, consent would be withdrawn, and no indemnity would be 
provided. Further, LV was entitled to recover any fees they had already paid.It's not unreasonable for an LEI insurer to keep a claim under review and to withdraw cover 
if it comes to light during a claim that policy terms and conditions arent met or exclusions 
apply, as here. Given the outcome of the HMRC investigation and the exclusions that 
applied, I think LV could also have asked Mr T to repay the fees theyd already paid.
Mr T is unhappy LV didnt tell him sooner that his accountants fees might not be paid in 
full. He says he wouldnt have engaged them if hed known that and the fees would have 
been avoided. So, having considered the policy position, Ill go on to look at whether its 
fair, given what happened, for LV to have withdrawn cover and declined to pay all the 
accountants fees.
Mr T chose to use his own accountants to deal with the HMRC investigation. From what 
LV has said, I understand their usual claims handlers, firm A, werent experienced in 
dealing with issues of policy coverage in relation to tax investigations. So, another firm, 
firm B, was appointed. LV told Mr T at the outset theyd be involved.
From what LV have said, firm B were acting as their agents when they were handling the 
claim on LVs behalf and dealing with policy coverage issues. So, LV assumed 
responsibility for firm Bs actions in relation to that. I think firm B should have explained to 
Mr T at the outset that he might not be covered for all of his accountants fees. But I dont 
think that makes a difference to the outcome of Mr Ts complaint, as Ill explain.
I think responsibility for letting Mr T know hed be primarily responsible for their fees and 
LV might not fund them all, lay with his own accountants.
Firm B had told the accountants several times they should not carry out any unauthorised 
work and asked for regular updates. Im not aware firm B or LV knew before January 2020 
that the HMRC investigation had been concluded, what the outcome was or that Mr Ts 
accountants had incurred fees beyond those LV had authorised. From what Ive seen, it 
wasnt until around May 2020 firm B and LV understood what further fees had been 
incurred. So, I dont think they could have let Mr T know sooner his accountants would be 
carrying out work they wouldnt pay for or that they planned to withdraw cover.
Even if LV could have let Mr T know sooner, Im not persuaded he would have chosen to 
deal with HMRC without his accountants. He involved them from the outset. Whilst he 
may have been working with them to provide information to HMRC, his accounts had to 
be reconstructed. And I understand the accountants secured a favourable outcome for  
Mr T in relation to the investigation. I think the reconstruction and negotiation with HMRC 
are likely to have required the professional help his accountants provided.
I can see there was a delay and some confusion about whether and when LV had paid the 
fees theyd agreed to meet and responsibility for VAT. But I think the correspondence Mr T 
had with LV about that was incidental to his main concern that LV were refusing to pay the 
other invoices. And Mr T has benefitted from the policy since LV have paid some of his 
fees, even though they said he wasnt covered under the policy and could have asked him 
to repay fees theyd already met, which is fair.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask LV to pay the 
accountants fees or compensation to Mr T. Whilst I understand Mr T will be disappointed, I 
dont intend to uphold his complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T hasnt made any substantive comments on my provisional decision. LV said they had 
no comments to make. So, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached. And, for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman