DRN-2766521
The complaint
Ms P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt re-issue her with a new credit card.
What happened
Ms P says her Tesco credit card expired in March 2020, but it didnt send her a new account 
card or tell her why it made that decision. She says she found out in 2021 what had taken 
place and says she is unable to make a balance transfer as she doesnt have a valid 
account card. Ms P says Tesco is entitled to close an account but should have told her. She 
would like £150 compensation which she says is the amount this mistake has cost her as a 
result of not being able to make the balance transfer.
Tesco says it sent Ms P numerous letters and default letters about her account. It says it 
acted in line with account terms and conditions by restricting account access when there 
were concerns about Ms Ps ability to repay the borrowing. Tesco says a letter was sent to 
Ms P on 16 March 2020 telling her it would not renew the account card but doesnt have a 
copy of that letter.
Ms P brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think Tesco was responsible for Ms P not receiving the letter.
Ms P doesnt accept that view and maintains she cant make a balance transfer without a 
current account card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms P will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I think Ms P would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that Tesco  
is entitled to suspend the use of the account where it has concerns about a customers 
ability to repay the borrowing. I can see from Tescos records that it sent Ms P numerous 
letters about her account use including default letters and about her exceeding the credit 
limit. So, Im satisfied in those circumstances that Tesco was entitled in line with agreed 
account terms and conditions to suspend the use of Ms Ps account where it had clear 
concerns about Ms Ps ability to repay any borrowing. It follows that I dont think Tesco made 
a mistake or acted unfairly by doing so.
I think it likely Tesco sent a letter to Ms P in March 2020 about that decision and I cant fairly 
hold Tesco responsible for Ms P not receiving that letter. I also think Ms P ought reasonably 
to have noticed that her card had expired, that she hadnt received a new one and contacted 
Tesco to find out why. In any event I dont think it matters that Ms P didnt receive the letter 
or noticed that she hadnt received a new account card. I say that as Im satisfied Tesco had 
decided in line with account terms and conditions not to renew the account card and so I 
cant see what Ms P could have done differently to change that or effect a balance transfer. 
And I find that even if Ms P received that letter, she would have been unable to continue 
using the account or spending on it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco was entitled to restrict the account usage by not sending a 
new account card and that it made no real difference that Ms P didnt receive notice of that. 
If Ms P is in financial difficulties in repaying the balance, then she ought to speak to Tesco 
about that as its obliged to treat customers in such circumstances positively and 
sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman