DRN-2704476
The complaint
A club, that Ill refer to as D, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim for 
business interruption. The complaint is brought by Mr S, Ds secretary. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on D, as they had to close. 
D held a business insurance policy with Aviva. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But Aviva declined it. It said the policy primarily covered D for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at, or within five miles 
of, Ds premises. But Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered. 
It said there was also cover for certain other situations which lead to a prevention or 
restriction of access to, or closure of, Ds premises. But action taken to control, prevent or 
suppress the spread of a disease was expressly excluded. 
D complained to us. But our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. D 
didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. D feels they entered into the policy 
in good faith, at a time when Covid-19 wasnt known about. They feel it would be in the spirit 
of the policy terms for the claim to be accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on D had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether Aviva 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Ds circumstances below. 
The burden of proof initially rests with D to demonstrate, on balance, theyve suffered a loss 
that their policy covers. 
Core business interruption cover
The core business interruption cover in Ds policy is for:
interruption or interference with The Business resulting from
(i) Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The 
Business occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by any of the 
following Contingencies, and 
(ii) provided that such Damage is not excluded by the Property Damage  
Specified Contingencies Section and/or Property Damage  All Risks Section 
of this policy, whichever is stated as insured in The Schedule. 
A definition is given for the word Damage, which is:
Physical loss, destruction or damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate the Covid-19 pandemic, or the Governments response to 
it, caused physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by D at their premises. 
Therefore, Im satisfied theres no cover under this term. 
Extensions to the business interruption cover (including Prevention of Access)
D selected a number of extensions to their business interruption cover. These extend the 
cover to include:
Damage during the Period of Insurance
(1) at the premises or situations, or
(2) to the property
described below by any Contingency stated in The Schedule as applying to such 
premises, situations or property, which results in interruption of or interference with 
The Business.
The policy definition of Damage still applies. I havent seen anything to indicate the Covid-19 
pandemic, or the Governments response to it, caused physical loss, destruction or damage 
at any of the premises, situations or property described in the extensions D selected either. 
So, Im satisfied theres no cover under these extensions.
Additional Contingencies 
D also selected various additional contingencies. These further extend the cover to include:
interruption or interference with The Business during the Period of Insurance, which 
results from the Additional Contingencies described below.
Two additional contingencies are potentially relevant to Ds circumstances. The first of those 
is Action by Police, Government or Other Competent Authority.  This covers D for:
The prevention or restriction of access to, or closure of, The Premises, by any 
Police, Government or other competent Authority, due to an emergency event within 
one mile of the boundary of The Premises that causes or threatens a danger or 
disturbance.
However, it goes on to say:
We will not indemnify You in respect of any action taken in controlling, preventing or 
suppressing the spread of any diseaseCovid-19 is a disease, and the restrictions imposed from March 2020 were intended to 
control, prevent and suppress its spread. So, Im satisfied the exclusion would apply here, 
even if I were to consider the requirements of this additional contingency had been met.
The second relevant additional contingency is Specified Disease, Food Poisoning, Vermin 
Pests and Defective Sanitation, Murder or Suicide. This covers D for:
A Specified Disease occurring at The Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of The Premises
A definition is given for Specified Disease, which is:
Any of the following diseases contracted by any person
(a) Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, 
Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal 
septicaemia, Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid fever, Puerperal 
fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Whooping cough and/or Yellow fever
(b) Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses:
Lassa virus, Junin virus, Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, 
Marburg virus, Crimean-Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley 
fever virus, Yellow fever virus and/or Dengue virus.
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something Aviva might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ds policy includes a list of specified diseases. And theres nothing in the policy 
which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, including any new 
diseases which emerge, and / or become notifiable at a later date. Im satisfied that the 
purpose and effect of the list is to provide cover in the event of these particular diseases. 
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
additional contingency wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as a result of the 
restrictions introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask D to accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman