DRN-3430593
The complaint
This complaint is about a commercial loan taken out by ASW Residential LLP (Ill refer to it 
hereon as the Partnership) with Metro Bank PLC. The loan has now been repaid, but the 
Partnership believes the loan was subject to serious accounting errors during its lifetime. 
The Partnership is represented here by Ms P and Mr N.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 23 March 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from our 
investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to repeat all the 
details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in the partners in ASW  or their representatives - being 
identified. I will therefore keep my summary of the complaint quite brief.
The Partnership borrowed £1.5m in June 2018, repayable over fifteen years. In March 2020, 
a limited company was formed (the Company) and in October 2020, the Company took out a 
separate commercial loan which was used to repay the Partnership loan.
Around the same time, Mr N had been in communication with Metro regarding what he 
considered were accounting errors in the way the Partnership loan had been operated. That 
dialogue was still ongoing when the Partnership loan was repaid by the Company loan. In 
November 2020, Metro issued a final response rejecting the main thrust of the complaint, 
and Ms P and Mr N referred it to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. 
Ms P and Mr N asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. 
So theres no ambiguity, this means that this decision applies solely to the now-repaid 
Partnership loan. If the Company wants us to investigate how Metro has operated the 
Company loan since it started, that will have to be an entirely separate complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or simply disputed, we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
What we have here is two different opinions on how Metro has conducted the Partnership 
account. Each side has produced calculations and re-calculations to support its own version 
of what it considers to be a correct account, neither side accepts what the other has said, 
and Im being asked to say which version should prevail. 
Ultimately, as the party making the allegation, its incumbent on the Partnership to argue a 
case that is more persuasive than Metros. Even equally persuasive isnt enough for me to 
find in its favour. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an account 
checking service and I am not an auditor. I can no more declare the Partnerships 
accounting to be the more accurate version than I can Metros.
But that doesnt mean the Partnership has to take Metros word that the current status quo is 
correct. If the Partnership has a real and substantive belief (based on something other than 
Mr Ns calculations) that the loan was wrongly accounted, it has the option of arranging for 
the account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because Metro would need to 
be presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and 
respond to it. 
The Partnership would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that 
were to its detriment, we would then expect Metro to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, the available evidence doesnt allow me to find in the Partnerships favour, 
however much Ms P and Mr N think I should.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done so.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. I say this not least because Mr Ns 
email of 8 April 2022 contains nothing that I hadnt already addressed in the provisional 
decision. That said, I will respond to some of his comments.
Firstly, this is not Mr Ns complaint; it is the Partnerships. Our rules say that a complaint may 
be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible 
complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr N (alongside Ms P) is bringing the 
complaint on behalf of the Partnership.But I must explain that, although Mr N represents the Partnership, it is the Partnership that is 
Metros customer. Mr Ns role is to bring the complaint on the Partnerships behalf, in the 
same way that other customers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr N to air his own grievances about Metro, because he 
is not its customer; his role is limited to putting forward the Partnerships complaint.
Im not sure why Mr N expresses such shock at my having apparently made a finding that 
Metros accounting was in line with common banking practice. Nowhere in the provisional 
decision have I made any finding whatsoever on the accuracy or otherwise of Metros 
accounting (in much the same way that Ive made no finding on Mr Ns alternative 
calculations either). The whole point of my provisional decision is that its not our role to 
provide a free accounting checking service.
Lastly, our impartiality means its not for us to engage a competent mathematician to 
scrutinise the loan account. As I explained in the provisional decision, its incumbent on the 
Partnership to do that, at its own expense, and then submit the findings as the basis for a 
new complaint if it wishes to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Partnership to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman