DRN-1751604
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has only offered to partly settle a medical expenses claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr M took out a travel insurance policy online, through a price comparison 
website. He travelled abroad a few days later.
While Mr M was away, he began to suffer from palpitations and became light-headed. He 
was taken to hospital for treatment. 
A medical expenses claim was made on Mr Ms travel insurance policy. Mapfre obtained a 
copy of Mr Ms medical records while it was looking into the claim. It noticed that Mr M had 
visited his GP around eight months before he took out the policy and had been referred to a 
talking therapies service. So it said he shouldve declared this when he took out the policy. 
Mapfre worked out that if hed disclosed hed suffered from depression when he bought the 
policy, it wouldve charged him an additional premium to cover it. It calculated hed paid 64% 
of the price he ought to have paid. So it was prepared to pay 64% of the claim value.
Although Mapfre had made its decision on the claim in February 2019, it didnt tell Mr M 
about it. Mr M didnt find out that Mapfre hadnt paid his claim until he got an invoice from the 
hospital for the full claim amount in July 2019. This debt was later passed on to a debt 
collection agency. Mr M complained to Mapfre  both about its decision on his claim and the 
fact it hadnt let him know the outcome of it.
Mapfre maintained that Mr M shouldve told it about his depression when he bought the 
policy. But it acknowledged that it shouldve let him know its decision on his claim. So it 
offered to pay 75% of the claim value. It said Mr M would need to pay the treating hospital 
the full amount and he could then reclaim Mapfres share of the settlement from it.
Mr M remained unhappy with Mapfres decision. He asked us to look into his complaint. He 
said hed only seen the GP once for stress  hed been referred to a helpline, which didnt 
think there was a real problem. He hadnt been back for anything related since. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He considered the question Mr 
M had been asked about whether he had any pre-existing medical conditions during the 
sales process. He didnt think Mr M wouldve considered himself to have any pre-existing 
medical conditions, so he felt hed accurately answered no to the question. He 
recommended that Mapfre should pay Mr Ms claim in full, together with compensation of 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused him. 
Mapfre disagreed. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mapfres offer of settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
When Mr M took out the policy online, he was asked information about himself and his party, 
his trip and whether anyone insured on the policy had any pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mapfre used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mr M and if so, on what 
terms.
Mapfre says that Mr M didnt correctly answer the question he was asked during the medical 
screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mr M was asked when he took out the policy.
Mr M bought the policy through a price comparison website. Mapfre has told us that Mr M 
wouldve been asked a trigger question during the sales process. This question asked:
Do any of the travellers have, or have any of the travellers had any pre-existing medical
conditions?
Mapfre also says that there was a question mark next to this question, which displayed the 
following information:
A pre-existing medical condition is any personal illness or condition that was known and 
existed prior to buying an insurance policy.
You must tell your insurer about the health history of each traveller. If you declare medical
conditions, your insurer will be able to confirm whether or not any claims relating to them can 
be covered. Cover may be free of charge or require payment of an additional premium. If 
you don't tell your insurer about a medical condition, this could cause serious problems. 
Your insurer may not pay for medical treatment or the costs to get home. It could even 
invalidate your whole policy.
Mapfre told us that Mr M answered no to this question. It says if hed answered yes, as it 
thinks he shouldve done, then Mr M wouldve been taken through a series of questions 
about his health. One of those questions related to psychological disorders, including 
depression and wouldve ultimately led to Mr M answering a series of questions about 
depression which wouldve resulted in it calculating an additional premium.
Ive looked at Mr Ms medical records and thought about what hes told us about his medical 
history to decide whether I think he took reasonable care to answer this question.
Mr Ms notes show that he visited his GP in November 2017, with symptoms of low mood, 
lack of appetite and depression following a traumatic situation in his personal life. The GP referred Mr M on for a talking therapies assessment, which was carried out a couple of 
weeks later. Mr M wasnt prescribed any medication and it doesnt seem like he received any 
follow-up care related to this episode. It appears to have since resolved and Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest Mr M is still suffering symptoms or undergoing psychological care.
So Ive thought carefully about the question Mr M was asked during the sales process and 
whether I think it was clear enough to prompt him to declare a one-off episode of depression. 
And I dont think it was. Thats because the question doesnt explain exactly what Mapfre 
wanted to know about Mr Ms health. It doesnt explain what it considers a pre-existing 
medical condition to be and it isnt at all clear that Mapfres referring to health issues a 
policyholder has suffered or sought treatment for during the past two years. It appears to 
refer to current pre-existing medical conditions.
Based on the medical evidence Ive seen and what Mr Ms told us, I dont think he wouldve 
considered a one-off episode of depression thatd been resolved several months before he 
took out the policy to be a pre-existing medical condition. So I dont think Mapfres question 
wouldve prompted him to declare hed briefly suffered from it. 
This means Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt care reasonable care when answering 
Mapfres question. I think he answered the question to the best of his knowledge and belief, 
based on the question he was asked. So I dont think theres been a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. And accordingly, I dont think Mapfre is reasonably entitled 
to limit its settlement to a proportionate payment. Mapfre must now pay the full claim to the 
treating clinic.
Ive also considered Mapfres handling of this claim. It made its decision to proportionately 
settle around five months before Mr M became aware of it. It mustve been a shock to Mr M, 
not just to learn that there was an outstanding balance, but that he was expected to pay it in 
full. And it mustve been distressing for him when the debt was referred on to a debt 
collection agency. So I agree that Mapfre must also pay Mr M £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset its handling of the claim has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.to now 
pay Mr Ms medical expenses claim in full.
I also direct Mapfre to pay Mr M £150 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman