DRN-3126896
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Cambrian Associates Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension plan (PPP).   
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
Mr E received a letter from the scheme on 22 September 2017, in which was included a 
transfer value quotation. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was quoted as 
£145,317.
Mr (and Mrs) E met with Cambrian on 12 October 2017 and his circumstances were 
recorded as follows:
He was 35, married, in good health and had three dependent children
Mr and Mrs E were both employed by Tata Steel with basic salaries of £41,000 and 
£37,300 respectively.
Their joint monthly income was £5,040 and joint monthly expenditure was £3,884. 
This left £1,156 net disposable income.
Their total assets amounted to £360,000, but they had no cash savings.
They owned their home, and had an outstanding mortgage of £280,000 with a 
monthly cost £1,250.
They also had an outstanding personal loan of £10,000 from Mrs Es father which 
had enabled them to buy their home.
Both Mr and Mrs E were contributing 6% pa to the defined contribution scheme with 
their employer paying a further 10% contribution.
Mr E was recorded as being a balanced risk investor.
In terms of Mr Es deferred benefit entitlement, he received a statement of benefits in 
November 2017 from a previous employer which detailed a deferred annual pension of 
£1,915 at age 60.
He could also expect to receive an annual pension of £27,370 from the BSPS at age 65, or a 
tax free lump sum of £120,928 and a reduced annual pension of £18,139. 
At Mr Es desired retirement age of 60 (although this was also set out as being 57), he 
could expect to receive an annual pension of £16,298 from the BSPS, or a tax free lump 
sum of £76,839 and a reduced annual pension of £11,525. 
Within a financial summary produced in October 2017, Mr Es priorities were recorded as 
follows:
1. He would like the ability to retire early
2. Control and flexibility of his pension income was appealing
3. He was concerned about the security of his pension at Tata and wished to move it
4. Provision for partner and dependents
5. To be able to increase his pension at his realistic retirement age
6. Lump sum death benefits before retirement
7. Tax free cash lump sums at retirement
And then, in a suitability report produced in November 2017, Mr Es main priorities were 
recorded as follows:
To move the funds away from the pension scheme unless there was a very good 
reason not to.
To give him more flexibility to retire early if he wanted to and to be able to take his 
benefits flexibly.
TVAS reports indicated the amount of growth required by the transferred funds to match 
those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. There are three on the file, two 
versions dated 12 October 2017, and the other 9 November 2017. One of the versions dated 
12 October 2017 recorded the critical yields as follows:
BSPS
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  6.65% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  5.68%
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  6.88%Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  5.87%
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  5.09% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  4.83%
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  5.83%
Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  5.56%
The second version of the TVAS dated 12 October 2017 recorded the critical yields as 
follows:
BSPS
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  10.22% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  9.11%
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  10.85%
Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  9.7%
PPF
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  5.09% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  4.83%
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  5.83%
Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  5.56%
And then the TVAS from 9 November 2017 recorded them as follows:
BSPS
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  6.65% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  5.88%
Retirement at age 57 with full scheme pension  7.82%
Retirement at age 57 with tax free cash taken  6.78%
PPF
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  5.1% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  4.89%
Retirement at age 57 with full scheme pension  6.15%
Retirement at age 57 with tax free cash taken  5.94%
The suitability report seems to have relied on the first of these, saying the PPP would need 
to grow by 5.68% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a retirement age of 65, if Mr E took the 
maximum tax free cash. If Mr E retired at age 57, which Cambrian said was possible as he 
would by then have worked at his employer for 30 years, the critical yield would be 6.63% 
pa, although as this doesnt correspond to the figures quoted above, its unclear as to where 
this figure was obtained.
Cambrian said that it was possible, but by no means guaranteed, that these critical yields 
could be achieved. But it said that Mr E would be taking control of his pension affairs.
Cambrian recommended that Mr E transfer his deferred benefits to a PPP in order for him to 
achieve his objectives, and Mr E accepted the recommendation. The fees which applied to the transfer advice were as follows:
An annual Fund Charge 0.65% per annum.
A product charge 0.40% per annum.
A £5,812 initial fee, equating to 4% of the current CETV.
A 0.5% per annum adviser charge which equated to £697 in year one.
Mr E complained to Cambrian in June 2021, saying that he didnt think hed been given the 
right advice and that hed suffered financial loss as a result.
Cambrian declined to uphold the complaint, however. Dissatisfied with the response, Mr E 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. He said the following in summary:
Mr E was 35 at the time of the advice and had accrued 10 years benefits in the 
BSPS. They would form a significant part of his pension provision, were of a 
safeguarded nature, and the security of those defined benefits would have been 
important.
Mr E was married with dependent children, and the BSPS would have provided them 
with an income in the event of Mr Es death at a very low cost.
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, he first considered the required critical 
yield to match the scheme benefits. 
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The investigator said that the discount rate was 4.7% pa for a period of 29 years to 
Mr Es normal retirement date, and 4.5% for retirement at age 57, compared to 
respective required critical yields to match the BSPS benefits at those same ages of 
5.68% and 6.63%. 
He also noted that, in the suitability report, Cambrian had said that there was an 
assumption of annual growth in the PPP fund growth of 5.2%, net of charges. The 
PPP providers own high growth rate was 5.37%.
He said that this meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was 
compromised  although the critical yields werent significantly higher than the 
discount rates and the growth deemed achievable within the PPP, they still meant that, to match the scheme benefits, Mr E would need to take a higher level of 
investment risk than that which was acceptable to him, or that would in any case 
have been aligned with his investment knowledge and experience.
The investigator also queried the balanced risk rating attributed to Mr E, saying that 
he had no record of investing and that his prior history indicated a more cautious 
rating. Mr Es defined benefits were transferred into a money purchase arrangement, 
which, given his other pension provision in the same kind of arrangement, 
exacerbated his overall exposure to investment risk.
The critical yields and charges which would be applied to the pension funds indicated 
that the transfer would not therefore clearly have been in Mr Es best interests.
The investigator was also unpersuaded by the stated rationale for transferring, noting 
that Mr E was 35 at the time, and although he may have wanted to consider retiring 
at age 57, this was still 22 years away. There was no reason for him to do so at that 
point, and if required, he could have transferred closer to his prospective retirement 
age. This was endorsed by Cambrians own comments within the suitability report, 
which said that Mr E had no real idea of the kind of income hed require in retirement 
 and that hed just taken on a large mortgage and had two very young children.
Both Mr E and his employer were contributing to his defined contribution scheme, 
and if Mr E wished to access scheme benefits flexibly at or close to retirement, then 
he could have accessed these.
There was also no indication that Mr E actually needed flexibility for his defined 
benefits  in his situation, financial security would have been his primary concern. 
The BSPS benefits would have constituted the major part of his retirement provision, 
and he didnt have other assets upon which to rely if his pension investments 
performed badly.
In terms of death benefits, Mr Es widow and children would have received 
dependants benefits from the scheme, and although Mrs E would have had her own 
pension benefits, the investigator noted that she had also been advised to transfer 
out of the BSPS by Cambrian.
It was natural that Mr E would want his family to benefit from his pension fund in the 
event of his death, although this wasnt recorded as a priority. But had the real 
picture of the death benefits which would have been available from the scheme and 
the lump sum benefits which would have been available from other sources been 
provided, the investigator didnt think that this would have been a motivating factor 
behind the transfer.
Although Mr E had an apparent distrust of his employer, and was concerned about 
the possibility of the scheme benefits passing into the PPF, this shouldnt have been 
a reason to transfer. The advice post-dated the release of the detail which outlined 
the choice which members had of either transferring into the PPF, or the new 
scheme (BSPS 2).
It had been recorded that Mr E wouldnt have transferred if there was a very good 
reason not to  and the release of the details relating to the BSPS 2 was a good 
reason to not transfer. In the knowledge of this detail, Cambrian should have advised 
against the transfer.The investigator considered the objectives set out in the suitability report to have 
been generic and not at all specific to Mr Es circumstances. Whilst he acknowledged 
that there were concerns relating to the scheme and what might happen at the time, 
the BSPS 2 still had guarantees attached and Mr E could have waited until closer to 
retirement to decide how he wished to format his pension benefits.
The investigator recommended that Cambrian undertake a loss calculation in accordance 
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr E 
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Es pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr E, with a notional deduction for the (basic 
rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr E agreed with the investigators findings. Cambrian disagreed, however, saying the 
following in summary:
The investigator missed, or didnt acknowledge, the existence of Mr Es other 
deferred benefits from previous employment which would have provided additional 
guaranteed income in retirement. On this basis, the complaint should be reassessed, 
as these additional benefits would add extra capacity for loss and risk tolerance to Mr 
Es circumstances. It would also have enabled him to take additional risks with other 
sources of income.
The investigator had dismissed Mr Es direct and quoted desire to transfer unless 
there was a very good reason not to, and had translated this into evidence that Mr E 
didnt wish to transfer at all costs. It agreed that Mr E wouldnt have wanted to 
transfer at all costs, but his own statement indicated that he had a strong pre-existing 
desire to transfer prior to contact with Cambrian.
The burden of evidence required to convince Mr E to not transfer was far higher in 
this case than normal. Given the lower than average critical yield figures, Mr Es 
distrust of his employer and his stated desire to transfer, it believed that he would 
have declined any advice to remain in either the closing BSPS or the new BSPS 2  
and would simply have found another adviser to facilitate his desired course of 
action.
As it didnt believe that Mr E would have followed advice to enter the BPSP 2, he 
would only have been left with the alternative of entering the PPF. This would have 
prevented any possibility of a future transfer, negating the point that Mr E didnt need 
to receive advice for 22 years.
The recommended redress would only enhance the value of Mr Es now non-
guaranteed defined contribution pension fund. It the outcome remained the same, it 
requested that it have the option of placing the client into the position he would have 
been prior to the advice which would be to use a deferred annuity to match the 
nature of his benefits as they were. It considered that this would be appropriate, 
given the nature of the complaint and the alternative outcome, and would be in line 
with this services principle of placing a customer back in the position they would 
otherwise have been.
The investigator didnt agree with the points made by Cambrian, however, and an agreement 
couldnt be reached on the matter, it was agreed that it would be referred to an ombudsman 
for review.More recently, the investigator wrote to both parties explaining that, on 2 August 2022, the 
FCA launched a consultation on proposed charges to the redress guidance for defined 
benefit transfers.  Mr E was provided with the opportunity to have redress calculated on the 
basis of the current guidance, or to wait until any new guidance was in place (expected in 
early 2023).
If no response was received, the investigator said that we would assume that Mr E didnt 
want to wait for any new guidance, and for the redress calculation to be undertaken on the 
basis of the existing guidance.
Mr E has confirmed that he would like to wait for any new redress methodology to be put in 
place. This was conveyed to  and acknowledged by  Cambrian.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Cambrian advised Mr E 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Cambrian, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, 
Cambrian needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Es objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Cambrians advice to Mr E in the context of the 
above requirements.
Cambrians rationale for transferring
Mr E wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and Cambrian was taking 
him through the advice process from the beginning. Therefore, Cambrian could be confident 
that he would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Cambrian undertook its fact finding for Mr E and then set 
out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives  as Ive noted above. 
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting assumption 
for an assessment of Mr Es options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, unless it could 
clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the 
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it 
that Mr E would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.The financial case to transfer
Cambrian obtained TVAS reports for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Es objectives from a financial perspective. 
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late 
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. And before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 29 years left to the scheme retirement age of 
65 was 4.7% pa, and for retirement at age 57 it was 4.5%. And the growth rates used in the 
TVAS to illustrate the benefits which might be payable from a PPP were -0.49% (low), 2.44% 
(mid) and 5.37% (high).
As illustrated above by the three separate sets of TVAS critical yields on the file, and at least 
one figure for retirement at age 57 quoted within the suitability report which unfortunately 
isnt consistent with any of the figures produced by the TVAS, the matter of the actual critical 
yields required to match the scheme or PPF benefits at ages 57, 60 and 65 isnt 
straightforward.
However, even if Im to rely on the lowest of these for the BSPS, at 5.68% pa, and 4.83% for 
the PPF, both to age 65, these were higher than the discount (or growth) rate deemed 
achievable over the same period, and the mid-band growth rate used by the pension 
provider  which might perhaps be a reasonable assumption for a balanced risk investor.
Cambrian has said it considered the critical yields to be achievable, albeit with the caveats 
as noted above. But as with the investigator, I dont think its more likely than not that the 
critical yields were in fact achievable, year on year, for the number of years that Mr E had 
until he reached retirement age and given his recorded attitude to investment risk. 
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. 
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the 
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out and repeated by the investigator, 
it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Es best interests. As 
such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial perspective, especially 
given the valuable guarantees which Mr E would be relinquishing. 
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7b. 
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that Cambrian 
did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as Cambrian will 
be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of 
the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable 
advice suitable. Cambrian needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that 
relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action 
for Mr E.
As Ive said above, Cambrians reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr E required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive 
given this argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I dont think that, if Mr E was in fact a balanced risk investor, the 
type of portfolio into which Mr E was advised to place his transferred funds for the purpose of 
later flexible access was necessarily unsuitable for the risk rating which was attributed to 
him. 
And even without investment experience, I do acknowledge that Mr E was likely to have 
understood the principle of needing to take some risk to achieve the required reward, along 
with the discussions around such concepts that he might have had with colleagues who 
were going through the same process. And so I think Mr E may have had a reasonable 
understanding of the concept of risk/reward.
But I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding the reliability of 
that risk rating for Mr E, given his lack of investment experience and other assets beyond 
pension savings.
But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Es capacity to take financial risks with his 
pension funds which is pertinent to overall suitability here. Cambrian has suggested that Mr 
Es additional deferred benefits from a previous employer werent factored into the 
investigators consideration of the complaint, but he certainly noted them in setting out the 
background to the complaint.
As such, I think the investigator did take these into account, but nevertheless concluded that 
but Mr E had an overall low capacity of loss, given his other assets. And Im inclined to 
agree. Mr E had joined the replacement defined contribution scheme, and so would likely 
have accrued a reasonable amount of money purchase benefits given the overall 
contribution rate (if he remained with the same employer), and the other deferred benefits 
were projected pay just under £2,000 at age 60. But other than the state pension which 
wouldnt be payable until age 68, the defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely 
to have been his main source of guaranteed income. Through transferring, Mr E was 
effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase basket. Any reduction in the 
benefits payable from them would therefore have had a not inconsiderable impact on his 
financial security in retirement.
But even if a different interpretation of the above was possible, I also dont think Mr E in any 
case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of the control and flexibility 
argument, I understand that this would be that Mr E would have control over his pension 
funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew from a flexi-drawdown, 
or phased withdrawal, arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. But as with the 
investigator, its unclear as to why Mr E would have needed such flexibility, especially given 
his family situation, the investment risk associated with the transfer, his attitude to risk and 
apparent lack of any similar historical investment which might otherwise indicate a 
preparedness to take risks with his pension income.  
And in particular Ive thought about whether Mr E could meet his objectives of retiring early 
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. I note 
that, in the suitability report, it was recorded that Mr E could retire early at 57, but this was 
presented as an option rather than something which Mr E had himself identified as being a 
specific goal  perhaps unsurprising given his distance from retirement at that point. And so 
Ill address the general principle of early retirement, rather than a requirement or desire to do 
so at a particular age.
And in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr E to take tax free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income. 
But as noted above, by age 57, Mr E would have accrued around 23 years worth of defined 
contributions in the replacement scheme. And so, as with the investigators findings, its 
likely that he could have relied on the proceeds of this for flexible access to pension benefits, 
from whatever age after 57, and then taken guaranteed benefits from either the BSPS 2 or 
the PPF as and when needed. Its entirely possible in my view that, based on his earnings, 
contribution rates and age, and also dependent upon which age after 57 he in fact retired, he 
would have been able to rely upon the accrued benefits from the defined contribution 
scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined benefit scheme age of 65, and then be 
subject to no early retirement income deduction.
Mr E would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income or lump sum 
withdrawals through the defined contribution accrual, until the point that he either needed, or 
chose to begin taking, benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And so any need for 
flexibility of income could have been addressed in this way.
Ive then thought about Mr Es outstanding commitments. Mr E had just taken on a sizeable 
mortgage and its unclear as to when this was due to be repaid, but I think its likely that, with 
a standard term of 25 years, this would be largely, if not completely repaid by age 60. And if 
it wasnt, Mr E could have relied upon the tax free cash entitlement from his defined 
contribution scheme benefits. And so this shouldnt have presented an obstacle to Mr E 
being able to retire early, and flexibly, through the phasing of his defined contributions 
benefits until he began taking those from the BSPS 2 or PPF  if indeed he needed to.
But even if a different interpretation was also possible on this, and there was likely to be 
insufficient headroom in terms of combined income (including any drawdowns from the 
defined contribution scheme) for Mr and Mrs Es expenditure after Mr E had reached his 
desired retirement age, and/or the mortgage had needed to be increased/extended in the 
interim, any remaining mortgage could have been restructured to require lower monthly 
repayments for the remaining years before Mr E accessed his defined benefit scheme 
pension funds at age 65. 
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs E could have still repaid some of the capital, but at a lower overall 
rate for the additional years, in order to provide more available income when Mr E retired at 
age 65.
Ive then thought about Mr Es likely acceptance of the proposition of risk/reward. As Ive 
said above, I think Mr E probably understood the principle, and risk warnings were provided 
by Cambrian. Mr E was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution scheme, and 
given the contributions rates to that scheme (10% and 6% employer and employee 
contributions respectively) and the number of years left to retirement compared against the 
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, the majority of his pension provision would likely 
be derived of the defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr E was already by necessity 
taking investment risk through the replacement scheme.
But in light of this, and as Ive said above, I think the guarantees attached to the defined 
benefits would have been of considerable value and these benefits should not have been 
relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which could in any case have been met by fairly 
uncomplicated planning around his defined contribution and defined benefit pension accruals 
and accessibility, even from 57 if required. 
And on that particular note, I must also re-emphasise, as did the investigator, that Mr E was 
35 at the point of advice, and therefore many years away from retirement. Ive noted the 
comment in the suitability report that Mr E was concerned about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Es concerns around this should have been managed 
appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice 
with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the 
employer, even if Mr E distrusted it. And the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which 
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the 
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice the 
BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable alternative. When the advice was given, 
there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. In fact, all indications were 
to the contrary. 
And so my view here is that Mr E simply didnt need to make any decisions about 
transferring out his defined benefits at that point. The prospect of entering the PPF had 
receded, but even if this was still the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him 
with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did 
in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. Mr Es plans, including retirement, may in 
any case have changed significantly in the 22 intervening years between then and Mr E 
reaching age 57, if indeed this was Mr Es desired retirement age. Any flexibility 
requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Es retirement. 
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early 
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was a 
sufficient reason for Mr E to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
On the basis that Mr E was married with children, death benefits would naturally have been 
important to him, but given the level of other lump sums which would be payable, the 
suitability report didnt record death benefits as being a priority.
I wont therefore dwell on this aspect, but I think its nevertheless worth noting, that, although 
after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form 
of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme, under the schemes terms, Mr Es 
dependants would in any case have been entitled to a lump sum return of his contributions 
to the scheme, together with compound interest. The fund value of Mr Es defined 
contribution scheme membership would also have been available as a lump sum. 
There is also the matter of the lump sum benefits which would have been paid, had Mr E 
remained in the same employment  and my understanding is that this would have been four 
times his annual salary.
Mrs E would also have been entitled to a spouses pension equivalent to half of that which 
would be payable to him, along with a further pension in respect of financially dependent 
children.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Es wife and 
children by way of transferring to the PPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose 
otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr E. 
What should Cambrian have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Es decision?There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr E. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr E to make any decision 
about his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of Cambrian to 
explain to Mr E why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing 
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no 
imminent prospect of his scheme benefits entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a 
later transfer. On the contrary, the indication was that the BSPS 2 would be successfully 
implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr E was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr E, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement  
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the 
scenario of entry into the PPF. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control 
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Es 
income needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr E to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age 
of 35. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Es concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future 
pension which would be, aside from the £2,000 pa he could expect from his prior 
employment at age 60, entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being 
partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Although not a stated objective, tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if 
required) would have been available both from his accrued defined contribution and defined 
benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, 
albeit in a different format from those available from the PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
As Ive set out above, its not been a straightforward task to ascertain exactly what these 
were, but if Im to rely on what was set out in the suitability report  and therefore what was 
presented to Mr E - the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid band 
growth rate set out by the TVAS pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely 
to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, given Mr Es 
recorded risk attitude. And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what Cambrian considers to have been the 
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
Cambrians view is that Mr E was intent on effecting the transfer. And Ive noted the 
comments relating to Mr Es keenness that the transfer proceed. But this was Cambrians 
opportunity to take proper account of Mr Es circumstances and objectives, along with any 
preconceived concerns about his employer and the scheme benefits, and advise him not to 
transfer, for all the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively unwind possibly quite 
deeply felt concerns. But I think the advantages of Mr E retaining his scheme benefits, if set 
out in terms similar to those above, would have persuaded Mr E to do just that. And I think 
any concerns about the pension scheme would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr E in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr E was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. 
The problem here, though, is that this was a complex matter involving many factors with 
which Mr E, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance on a professional 
party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr E simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Es recorded keenness to transfer, unless good reasons were presented as to why he 
shouldnt, may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial viability of the 
BSPS, but as Ive said above, I think this was due to the absence of a detailed and balanced 
assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process. And I think 
there very good reasons for Mr E to not transfer, as set out above.
Taking account of Mr Es circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that Cambrian should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr E would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr E, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Es attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Es options and the future benefits available from both the 
BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) 
and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr E were available without needing 
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of 
BSPS benefits which would have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF).My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Es attitude to risk with regard to his 
pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a 
successor scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for 
transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits 
being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - 
then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Es best 
interests. 
Putting things right
As I set out above, on 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer 
redress guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr E would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. I consider its fair 
that Cambrian Associates Limited calculates Mr Es redress in line with new guidance and 
rules when they come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As with the investigator, I 
consider he would have retained his benefits in the BSPS, and with suitable advice, have 
then transferred into the BSPS 2. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members. 
As Ive said above, the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the 
commutation factors for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under 
the PPF. And so, on the basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and 
the tax free cash would likely have been higher with the PPF. 
But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr E would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. 
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
Ive noted Cambrian Associates Limiteds suggestion that, if the complaint were to be 
upheld, it could put in place a deferred annuity on Mr Es behalf. Ive thought about this 
carefully, but the basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains 
to put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and 
policy statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr E, 
and that the FCAs commentary on alternatives such as a deferred annuity, including the 
possible associated impracticalities and unfairness of outcome, would reasonably apply in 
this case.
Should a loss be determined, and any resulting amount be paid into Mr Es pension plan, or 
directly to him, as outlined below and Mr E wishes to take up the option of Cambrian 
Associates Limited using his fund value and any compensation amount to buy a deferred 
annuity, then this will be a matter for Mr E and Cambrian Associates Limited, but with the 
latter ensuring that it takes account of the FCAs guidance within the policy statement in that 
regard.
Cambrian Associates Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated 
methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to 
calculate and pay any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
I dont think theres any clear or persuasive evidence that Mr E would have accessed his 
defined benefits before the normal scheme retirement age of 65. So, compensation should 
be based on his him taking benefits at this age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, the calculation should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Cambrian 
Associates Limited has received notification of Mr Es acceptance of my decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the 
date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr E
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cambrian Associates Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. Cambrian 
Associates Limited should give Mr E a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr E 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Cambrian Associates Limited to pay Mr E the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Cambrian 
Associates Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Cambrian 
Associates Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr E the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
If Mr E accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Cambrian Associates Limited. 
My recommendation is not binding on Cambrian Associates Limited. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr E can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cambrian Associates Limited to 
undertake the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman