DRN-3363301
Complaint
Ms D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly added interest, fees and 
charges to her overdraft which led to her experiencing difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ds complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Ms D might have been struggling with the charges being added to her account by 
March 2019. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Ms Ds 
overdraft from this point onwards. Santander didnt agree and so the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from March 2019. By this point, it 
was evident Ms D had already got in touch to explain that she was struggling to pay the 
charges on her account and she made a formal complaint. And despite being asked to 
evidence what steps it took to help Ms D after this, Santander simply provided a copy of its 
final response and suggested it couldnt locate Ms D as customer. Crucially it hasnt 
provided anything to show that it did provide suitable assistance to Ms D.    
So, bearing in mind what Ive been provided with, I think that by March 2019 Santander 
should have stopped simply adding charges in the same way and on the same terms and 
instead treated Ms D with forbearance. All of this means that Santander should have 
realised that Ms D may have been experiencing difficulty paying the charges being added 
and offered her help to repay what she owed. As Santander hasnt shown me anything to 
demonstrate it reacted to Ms Ds account usage and offered her assistance, despite being 
provided with a significant amount of time to do so, Im not persuaded that it acted fairly and 
reasonably in this instance. 
Ms D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when, it appears as 
though, she was already struggling to repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Ms D lost 
out because of what Santander did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Ms D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ds complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ds account balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from March 2019 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Ms Ds account once these adjustments 
have been made Santander should contact Ms D to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Ms D is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to 
reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Ms Ds credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on Ms Ds account 
in March 2019. Santander can also reduce any overdraft limit on Ms Ds account 
by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so 
wouldnt leave her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Ms Ds credit file. 
Santander can also reduce any overdraft limit on Ms Ds account by the amount 
of any refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman