DRN-3435140
The complaint
Mr G complains Ageas Insurance Limited have refused to meet his claim under his motor 
insurance policy after his car was stolen.
Other companies such as Ageas claims investigator, have been involved in this complaint, 
but as Ageas are responsible for these companies, Ive just referred to Ageas in this 
decision.
A representative has also acted on Mr Gs behalf at times during the claim, but again for 
simplicity, Ill just refer to him in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr G took out an agreed value motor insurance policy. Typically, these are taken out for 
classic cars  and pay out the pre-determined value (the agreed value) of the car. This 
differs from normal motor policies, where the market value at the time of a theft or total loss 
claim is what gets paid out.
Mr Gs car was valued in March 2020 by an independent valuer at a price of £155,000. The 
car was unfortunately stolen on 17 December 2020. Mr G reported this to the Police and 
submitted his claim to Ageas the following day.
Since then, Mr G says Ageas have refused to pay out on his claim, providing unclear and 
incorrect information.  
On 5 April 2021 Ageas issued their outcome to Mr G setting out their reasons for turning 
down Mr Gs claim  and referring to their policy terms which allow them to do this.
Our Investigator looked into things and felt Ageas hadnt done enough to reasonably turn 
down the claim, so she upheld the complaint. She recommended Ageas pay the claim, and 
also pay Mr G £200 compensation for the distress hed been caused.
Mr G accepted this, but Ageas didnt. They reiterated their concerns over the claim, and felt 
our Investigator was ruling whether the claim was genuine or not  which they think goes 
beyond our remit. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant decide whether Mr G has made a fraudulent claim or 
not, only a court can do that. But what I can do is look at whether Ageas have enough to 
reasonably turn down Mr Gs claim based on the evidence theyve got.
Id add up front, I think Ageas have done a very thorough job in investigating this claim of 
Mr Gs  and given the value, I can see why.
So, given the very thorough job theyve done, Id expect to see a lot of evidence showing 
why Ageas would have concerns about Mr Gs claim  and that evidence would reasonably 
lead them to conclude Mr G had submitted a fraudulent claim. 
But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, Im not satisfied they have enough evidence to 
reasonably turn down Mr Gs claim under the conditions they have.
Those conditions Ageas have quoted are:
General conditions
1. We will provide the cover described in this insurance document only if:
Anyone making a claim has met all the conditions in this document: and
The information you gave on your proposal form or statement of insurance and 
declaration is, as far as you know, correct and complete
     3.    If you or anyone acting for you
Making a claim which you or they know is false, fraudulent or exaggerated, or 
provide false or stolen documents to support a claim
we will not pay the claim and this insurance will end.
The reasons Ageas gave for turning down the claim are as follows:
In the first interview, Mr G said hed bought the car for £25,000 - £20,000 transferred 
by bank transfer, £5,000 in cash. In the second and last interview, he said it was only 
the £20,000 bank transfer.
Purchase had been arranged by someone else but Mr G couldnt say who he was 
apart from a friend. And Mr G didnt know the surname of this person, which Ageas 
felt was unusual given this person had driven Mr G to collect the car.
Mr G hadnt seen the car before agreeing to buy it, which Ageas felt seemed unusual 
 all of which was arranged by this other person which they said was most unusual.
They spoke to this other person, but he wasnt willing to provide any details such as 
his name, address, his business or any other background details  and they said this 
response raises further concerns.
They said regarding the valuation, the photos dont correspond with the valuation 
report. They felt the quality of the paintwork and the interior condition dont reflect a 
car that is in Concours condition, as set out in the valuation. They added there is no 
evidence in terms of parts invoices, for any work done on the car post purchase.
Using the same valuer as in Mr Gs previous theft claim raises further issues for them 
 the first being they cant find this company searching online, but thats how Mr G 
said they found them.
Mr G claims to have paid £300 in cash for the report before he received it, therefore 
there isnt any evidence of the report. They said paying for a report like this in cash, 
before receiving the report, is of concern and most unusual.
Ageas werent able to find their address or any evidence of their business, and they 
werent engaging with them. The valuers website is merely a shell without any photos of vehicles theyve valued 
or feedback from customers  and the images on the website are stock photos.
The only record they have of these valuers is in three cases  all of which have been 
theft claims, this one of Mr Gs, his previous one, and another unconnected 
individual, which Ageas say were stolen in almost identical circumstances.
Having discussed this valuation company with the broker, who Ill call F, which 
specialise in these types of cars, said theyd never heard of them.
Theyve spoken to the website designer, who said he was paid to set up a website in 
2016. Ageas say he was paid five years hosting fees upfront which appears unusual, 
he says he cant remember who asked him to set up the website and refuses to 
engage with their enquiries.
Ageas also drew some similarities between this claim of Mr Gs, and the other 
unconnected individuals claim  saying the thefts occurred in the same area, same 
type of car, and has similarities about what the policyholders thought had happened 
to the cars.
They finished by saying these similarities appear to be more than mere coincidence  and 
added to their concerns about the validity of the claim.
This is quite a lot of information to have gathered, but what Im not seeing is a lot of 
information where Mr G has done something wrong, provided incorrect information, or 
refused to co-operate with Ageas claims handler. Im aware Mr G disputes a lot of 
information above, and Ill touch on that as needed.
Starting at the beginning, Ive seen enough evidence for me to be satisfied that:
Mr G bought the car for £20,000 by bank transfer in December 2019.
He travelled up with this other party to collect the car.
When taking possession of the car, Mr G also took possession of a number of spare 
parts the owner had, but hadnt restored the car (invoices have been provided by the 
other party for the purchase of these parts, and Mr Gs invoice when buying the car 
shows spare parts listed as well).
After taking ownership of the car, Mr G restored the car as thats something hes 
capable of doing  Ive seen photos of the car being restored, so I dont doubt this.
After restoring the car, Mr G applied to the relevant Government authority to inspect 
his car due to the type of car it was  which was booked in for February 2020 and 
Ive seen a copy of this report.
In February 2020, Mr G applied to F  a specialist broker in the field of classic cars 
and agreed value policies, to insure his car.
Early March 2020, Mr G pays his first premium to F  this was for an agreed value for 
his car of £120,000, but the valuation report hadnt been received at this time.
The valuation was then completed on 20 March 2020 and gave a value for the car of 
£155,000  the valuation provided photos and comments.
This was accepted by F, who placed their business with Ageas, in April 2020.
So, up to this point, Im satisfied there is sufficient evidence to explain Mr G did buy a car, for 
£20,000 by bank transfer, restored it and got it valued.
Ive noted Ageas concerns about how much Mr G paid for the car  whether it was £20,000, 
or £25,000. But it sounds like he buys and sells cars fairly regularly, which I think Ageas 
would accept is likely given whats known about Mr G. And, hes said in response to Ageas 
concerns, he forgot whether he had or hadnt paid the £5,000. I dont find that particularly unusual, given this is something Mr G does quite regularly, and the purchase of the car was 
over a year earlier at the point of answering Ageas questions.
I do appreciate the arrangement to buy the car without seeing it in the normal order of things 
is unusual, but Mr G is clearly someone with a lot of knowledge about this kind of market  
and it would appear saw an opportunity to buy something thatd end up having a lot of value. 
Mr G has said this other party had access to a trailer, which given the state the car was in, 
again makes sense. The car wasnt in a driveable condition and needed to be restored.
Ive noted Ageas have said the other party wasnt willing to engage with them. Im not sure 
thats necessarily true  the other party did speak to Ageas and answered a number of 
questions. But, from the transcript, it seems when Ageas started to ask for personal data, 
they didnt want to provide that.
Similarly, I see the same when it comes to the valuation company. Ageas have said they 
werent engaging with them either. I cant agree with that. Again, the transcripts Ive seen 
has shown they were co-operating and providing information. I appreciate there came a time 
when they stopped engaging  and their reasons for doing so appear quite implausible.
But, on both of these points, Im not sure how its Mr Gs responsibility the other party and 
the valuation company provided some information but drew a line in the sand.
Nor do I think itd be fair to hold Mr G responsible for the contents of the valuation report. 
Hes got this from a company he used before, which was accepted by the broker seemingly 
without question. If F, or Ageas, had concerns over the valuation amount offered at the time 
then Id expect that to have been raised before they accepted his car for cover. In effect, by 
accepting the risk, theyve accepted the information provided presented an acceptable risk. It 
feels unfair to now say the valuation report doesnt stack up  especially on something as 
basic as the comments in the report dont match the photos seen  after a claim has been 
made. This is an agreed value policy, I dont think itd be unreasonable for Ageas to have 
undertaken more due diligence, if they wished to, when the policy is being incepted. Though, 
again, Im unsure how this proves Mr G has in some way acted inappropriately. Beyond 
using a company hed used before to provide a valuation, which was deemed acceptable 
previously, Ive not been provided with anything to suggest Mr G did anything wrong.
Similarly, I cant say Im persuaded by Ageas concerns about how the report was paid for. 
Mr G said hes used them before, and I cant say I find it particularly unusual some 
companies might ask for the money to be paid to them before delivering on the overall 
outcome. People regularly pay for goods or services on the promise those goods or services 
will be delivered.
Ageas have also raised concerns over the website, lack of information regarding the 
valuation company, similar claims  and that the broker F hadnt heard of them.
Again, Im unclear how any of these points are proving Mr G hasnt submitted a clear and 
valid claim.
Those are Ageas points, but looking at the circumstances what I can also see is that:
The car was stolen on 17 December 2020
Mr G has provided a clear and plausible explanation for why his car was where it was 
on the day of the theft
Mr G reported the theft to the Police on the same day  and has provided evidence of 
this
Mr G still has the two keys for his carThere was quite a long period between Mr G putting his car on cover, and it being 
stolen
Mr G has answered all questions Ageas have asked and provided a significant 
amount of information on all occasions. Where he doesnt agree with Ageas points, 
hes explained his thoughts in detail and gone back to Ageas on those points.
In essence, focusing solely on the issues within Mr Gs control, theyre turning down Mr Gs 
claim because he said he paid an extra £5,000 in cash when he actually didnt (which I 
understand he clarified himself), he travelled to collect the car with someone whose surname 
he didnt know  and hed not seen the car before buying it.
Set against that, is the clear evidence Mr G did buy the car, restored it, got it inspected by 
the relevant Government agency, insured it, reported the theft the same day, answered 
Ageas enquiries, and hasnt, as far as I can see, acted evasively or in any way been 
uncooperative.
Given this, Im not satisfied Ageas have demonstrated theyve acted fairly in turning down 
the claim  so Ill be requiring them to pay it. As they should have paid the claim when it was 
made, I also require them to add 8% interest from the date the claim was made to the date 
of settlement as Mr G has been deprived of the claim settlement when he shouldnt have 
been.
Ive noted our Investigator recommended £200 compensation. But, on reflection I dont think 
this goes far enough. Not paying out any claim when it should be isnt fair, but implying Mr G 
has acted fraudulently, without enough evidence to support it, really isnt fair. So, I think 
paying Mr G compensation of £500 would be fairer.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G said he agreed with the decision and had nothing further to add.
Ageas initially replied, and said theyd noted I explained I cant decide if the claim is 
fraudulent, but then said thats exactly what my review then goes on to do. They asked for 
my comments on this.
I asked our Investigator to back to Ageas with my thoughts as follows on 18 March 2022:
Ive noted Ageas comment that Im effectively deciding whether Mr G submitted a fraudulent
claim. But, I just wanted to emphasise Im not. All Im deciding is whether they have enough
evidence to fairly say Mr G has submitted a fraudulent claim  and as per my findings I dont
think they have.
Similar to a liability decision. Our service can decide whether an insurer has reached the
decision to hold someone liable fairly but cant decide liability itself.
If Ageas wish to provide further information for me to consider before the deadline then they
should do so.
Following this no further reply was received from Ageas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr G accepted the outcome I reached, and although Ageas didnt agree with my decision, 
theyve not provided anything further for me to consider.
Due to that, I remain of the opinion I dont think Ageas have shown they acted fairly when 
turning down the claim  so theyll need to take the actions Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas to:
Pay Mr Gs claim, subject to any policy excesses or other deductions thatd usually 
be applied
Pay 8% interest* from the date of the claim, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr G £500 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Ageas to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Ageas must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman