DRN-2995996
The complaint
Miss P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund her a payment she made 
on her debit card.
What happened
On 9 October 2020 Miss P bought a television online using her debit card. The television 
wasnt delivered as expected so Miss P contacted the provider, which agreed to refund Miss 
P. It said the funds would reach her account in the next 10-12 days. Miss P didnt receive a 
refund, so she contacted Santander on 6 November 2020 in order to raise a chargeback 
claim. 
Santander sent information requests to Miss P so that it could investigate her claim and 
received a completed form and invoice on 8 March 2021. The form was dated 3 March 2021. 
As the form was received outside of the time period allowed to raise a chargeback 
Santander said it was unable to do anything further. Miss P says she didnt receive 
Santanders letters and that Santander should have done more to make her aware of the 
time limit that applies.
The investigator who considered Miss Ps complaint didnt uphold it. She noted Santander 
had asked Miss P to provide information in respect of a chargeback claim on five occasions. 
The letters were sent to the address Santander and this service hold for Miss P. The 
investigator said the timescales for raising a chargeback were strict and Santander had 
acted reasonably. 
Miss P didnt accept what the investigator said. She said Santander should have done more 
to make her aware of the 120-day time limit.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is organised and 
run through the overarching card scheme but customers wishing to use the service must go 
through their card issuer (Santander in this case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and 
banks are not under any formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. But this services 
view is that it is good practice for a bank like Santander to make a chargeback claim where 
the right exists, timescales are met and there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Santander hasnt set the chargeback rules that apply in this case  the time limits are set by 
the card scheme.  These rules must be adhered to strictly. If they are not the merchant (in 
this case the company that sold the television to Miss P) can put forward a valid defence to 
the claim. When this happens, the merchant doesnt refund the customer. So I need to 
decide if Miss P provided Santander with enough information to make a claim within the 
relevant timescale and whether Santander gave Miss P enough opportunity to comply with 
the time limit.  
In this case Miss P has provided an order confirmation email from the merchant which 
shows the order for the television was placed on 9 October 2020. Under the Visa 
chargeback rules the chargeback claim must be made within 120 calendar days of the date 
Miss Ps television was due to be delivered. But the order confirmation doesnt include any 
information about the date the television was due to be delivered. The rules say that in these 
circumstances Santander must wait 15 days from the transaction date before exercising 
chargeback. So I consider Santander needed to make the chargeback claim by around 21 
February 2021. Miss P didnt provide the relevant information to Santander to enable it to 
make the claim until early March 2021, meaning that by the time it had enough information to 
make the claim it was out of time to do so.
Miss P has said Santander didnt make her aware that the claim needed to be made in a 
specified time period. Whilst I agree with Miss P that Santander didnt mention the time limit 
specifically, I consider Santander took reasonable steps to request the information from Miss 
P, but she didnt respond
Im aware Miss P has said she didnt receive the letters sent by Santander. This service 
takes the view that if a business can show that a letter was sent to a customers correct 
address it is reasonable to conclude the letter was received. In this case Santander has 
provided screen prints that show five letters were issued to Miss P requesting information. It 
has also provided copies of the letters sent. Miss P first contacted Santander about a 
chargeback claim on 6 November 2020 and Santander requested information the following 
day. The letter it sent to Miss P said, 
We need some further information from you to help us assess your claim. Without this 
information we cant help you get your money back and your claim will be closed.
Miss P was asked to respond in 14 days. The next letter, dated 26 November 2020, gave the 
same response period. Santander then sent three further letters, all of which included the 
wording Ive quoted above. Santander also sent a final response letter on 24 February 2021 
which noted that as the date had passed it may not be able to help Miss P. 
In all the circumstances of this case I consider Santander acted reasonably and gave Miss P 
enough of an opportunity to provide necessary information in the timescale set by Visa. 
Santander has no discretion to extend this timescale.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman