DRN-2698475
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint concerns a critical illness plan provided by ReAssure Life Limited. Shes
said, in brief, that shes unhappy to have seen the premiums need to increase and the
amount of cover decrease. Shes now reached the point where shes paid in more in
premiums than the benefit the plan would pay out and says she wasnt made aware this
could happen at the point of sale.
What happened
ReAssure didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. It explained how the plan itself and the reviews
carried out on it worked and why those reviews had led to a reduction in the level of cover. It
acknowledged Mrs Cs disappointment with the reduced level of cover but highlighted that
the plan had provided protection for nearly 30 years and wouldve paid out the sum assured
in the event of a valid claim. In respect of suitability, ReAssure explained that the plan had
been sold by a financial adviser and it wouldve been their responsibility to ensure the plan
met Mrs Cs needs and was understood.
The complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator said that he didnt think we were
able to consider the merits of the complaint, because ReAssure hadnt been responsible for
the sale of the plan.
Mrs C didnt accept this as she felt that the financial adviser had been acting as an agent of
ReAssure, so had a responsibility to ensure shed been properly informed about the risks.
She said that the adviser hadnt mentioned that the premiums could rise, or the total paid
eventually exceed the sum assured. She also said the review letters had been misleading.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to
review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
I should say first that I think that we are able to consider the merits of the complaint  at 
least the parts of it that relate to ReAssures action and responsibilities. I agree with the
investigator that any concerns Mrs C has about the sale of the plan and its potential
unsuitability are not things that ReAssure can be held responsible for. Its responsibilities lie
solely with the administration of the plan. The adviser was not acting as its agent.
And in respect of the plans administration, Ive not seen that ReAssure  or any of the
predecessor businesses that administered the plan  acted incorrectly or unreasonably. The
reviews were carried out as they shouldve been and while its unfortunate that the initial
premium hasnt continued to support the sum assured, thats not unusual with this type of
policy and isnt an indication that anything has been done wrong.
Ive noted Mrs Cs comments about the review letters issued by ReAssure being misleading,
but I dont agree. Shes provided a specific example  the review letter from 2008  and
queried the options offered to her; particularly the third option, which said that maintaining
the same premium and sum assured  as opposed to increasing the premiums or reducing
the sum assured  would mean the benefits were projected to support for another six
years.
While I accept that this is quite unusual wording, I think that its reasonably clear that it
meant that if no changes were made then the plan would only continue to provide the
benefits for another six years. This is normal for this type of policy  its why increases to the
level of premiums (or decreases in the sum assured) are often needed, so the policy can
continue to provide cover. In any event, a customer services telephone number was
provided for Mrs C to call if she had any concerns.
In summary, while I understand Mrs Cs frustration, Im satisfied that ReAssures
responsibilities in respect of the plan are limited solely to its administration and, further, that
they have been carried out correctly.
ReAssure confirmed it had nothing further it wished to add. 
Mrs C responded to say she didnt agree that the full responsibility for mis-selling lay
solely with the financial adviser. She felt that ReAssure had a duty to inform clients at the 
point of sale about how the policy worked, the increases in premiums or any risks involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Ive noted Mrs Cs further comments, I remain of the view that the 
complaint should not be upheld. I appreciate she feels that ReAssure had more of a 
responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for her, and that she understood how it 
worked and its risks. But communicating these things and ensuring suitability was the 
responsibility of the adviser. 
Ive not seen that ReAssure did anything wrong in respect of the information it did provide to 
Mrs C or with the ongoing administration of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman