DRN-2866185
The complaint
Mrs S complains that, when applying for an additional voluntary contribution (AVC) policy 
with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (PRU), the product she purchased 
included life insurance which she wasnt aware of and didnt need.
What happened
Mrs Ss concerns with her PRU policy began after they wrote to her in October 2019 to offer 
a £720 fees repayment. She questioned whether this represented PRU admitting they had 
made some sort of mistake and asked them to clarify what they were repaying her for. And 
it was at this point Mrs S realised shed been paying for life insurance premiums in addition 
to her AVC, which she said was something she had no recollection of agreeing to. 
PRU explained that they had undertaken a review of the amounts theyd charged customers 
for life cover (not just Mrs S) from 2014 until 2018. And theyd concluded they would have 
liked to reduce these charges earlier than they did. So, they offered Mrs S £720 as a 
discretionary repayment of the charges shed paid in this period. 
PRU also said the AVC papers Mrs S signed when she took out the AVC policy clearly 
showed she ticked the box asking for life insurance to be included. PRU said Mrs S had met 
their representative in 1995 (who visited her at home) to review her financial plans, 
whereupon she was advised to start a Teachers AVC (TAVC) policy to enhance her income 
in retirement. And at the time, she agreed to accept the representatives recommendation to 
increase her life cover  as her employers death in service benefit was limited to 1 x her 
annual salary at the time (and the extra cover would effectively increase that to a value 3 x 
her salary). PRU also explained Mrs S would have received yearly statements clearly 
showing that she was paying for both (TAVC and life cover).
Mrs S says she only became aware she was paying the additional life insurance cover in 
2019 when PRU contacted her about the £720 premiums refund. She says she has no 
recollection of receiving any communications before this. Mrs S says she didnt need the 
extra death benefits because, by the time of her complaint to PRU in 2019, she was covered 
for twice her teachers salary (about £100,000), plus the repayment of the full amount 
invested in the TAVC by that time (about £132,000). However, PRU said these are benefits 
that were available in 2019, and not 1995 when the death benefit policy was set up. The life 
benefits she was entitled to under her employer pension was only £14,500, and there was 
no TAVC value to be repaid.  
One of our investigators initially upheld Mrs S complaint. Whilst he felt the death benefit was 
suitable, as it significantly increased her death benefit at a time when her teachers death 
benefits equated to only 1x salary, he wasnt satisfied Mrs S had agreed to take out the 
policy. He felt there were too many inconsistencies in the information PRU had sent him  
missing application form pages, incomplete declarations, premiums not starting until six 
months after the TAVC payments started (which PRU were unable to explain why)  to 
reasonably conclude that Mrs S was aware of and agreed to take out the extra life insurance 
policy. He said PRU needed to refund the premiums, with interest, less the £720 which had 
already been refunded.   
PRU disagreed with this. They were unhappy our investigator has placed so much reliance 
on Mrs Ss completed application form, signed 26 years ago. They accepted they were 
unable to provide much more by way of evidence given documents from that time, and 
afterwards, had been destroyed. They explained Mrs S had received a policy document 
when taking out the policy, and regular statements (none of which they could now provide). 
Also, following a further extensive search, PRU managed to locate a copy of the fact-find 
and illustration completed at the time. PRU said this shows life cover was fully discussed 
and agreed at the time. And, PRU also referred to the initial TAVC application signed by Mrs 
S, and that shed signed a declaration that the answers given in the additional death benefits 
section are true. PRU also confirmed it had no objection to us considering this complaint, 
notwithstanding it was about the sale of a policy over 25 years ago.
Upon receipt of this, our investigator changed his view. He was persuaded by the 
information contained in the fact find  life cover had been discussed and it was recorded 
that Mrs S wanted added protection to cover her family, for which the advisor recommended 
that she take out death benefits equivalent to 3 x her salary at that time. And Mrs S had 
signed and dated the declaration. Our investigator was satisfied Mrs S was aware of the 
extra death benefits at the time they were taken out, and they had been explained to Mrs S. 
He also didnt think the added death benefits were unreasonable given Mrs S had a family 
and mortgage at the time.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs S repeated that she only wanted to take out an AVC at the time and 
didnt knowingly agree to additional life cover which she says she didnt need. She doesnt 
remember the fact-find document being discussed. She also referred to some documents 
signed a year after the TAVC policy was taken out (increasing her contributions) which make 
no reference to her paying for extra life benefits. Mrs S expressed concern the initial TAVC 
application form was misleading. She was also unhappy with the way PRU have 
communicated with her throughout this process. So, she asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, and its been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, I wont 
be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The first document I need to consider is the fact-find document. This shows a discussion 
with PRUs representative took place at Mrs S home in July 1995. It lists number of factual 
matters relating to her circumstances at the time:-She had two young children
-Her husband (by virtue of his profession) didnt wish to be involved in this application
-Her income was £14,500 gross, or £845 per month net
-Household expenses were shared, including a life insurance payment of £90 per month 
linked to the mortgage
-Her jointly owned property was valued at £70,000, with an outstanding mortgage of 
£63,600
The Your life assurance needs section was also completed. This showed:
-A dependant need analysis, identifying/calculating a figure of £43,590 needed based on 
an attached assumption table
The Identifying your needs section was also completed. This shows:
-Mrs S existing employer life cover of 1 x teacher salary only of £14,500 
-That Mrs S still needed £29,090 cover (£43,590 less £14,500)  based on the above 
need analysis
-Mention is made that Mrs S husbands life cover is sizeable, but its made clear that Mrs 
S doesnt wish to include or involve her husbands finances in this process
The Prioritising your needs section then records as follows:
-No 1 priority is listed as planning for your retirement (the TAVC)
-No 2 priority is listed as protecting you and your family  Life assurance. The discuss 
further box is ticked here, and has been annotated protect family, have max death in 
service
The Identifying Solutions to your needs section has not been completed, but the Reasons 
why  life assurance section contains the following comments:
-Recommended client have 3 x salary life cover under AVC scheme, to protect children 
-And, under What you decided to do section, says £43,500 @ £3.48 pm for 27 years
The form is signed and dated by Mrs S on the day of the visit. The TAVC application form is 
also completed at the same home visit. It contains various bits of financial information, much 
of which is similar to the information Ive mentioned above. It includes, at section 7 (the 
additional death benefits section) that Mrs S wished to be provided with death benefits of 
£43,500, at a cost of £3.48 per month (deducted from the monthly TAVC premium, so not a 
separate payment). Mrs S marital status, height and weight are provided, and certain 
medical questions have been answered. 
I appreciate Mrs S says she has no recollection of discussing extra life assurance at the 
time, and I have no reason to doubt what Mrs S says. But, the documentation from the time 
seems clear extra life cover was discussed, and in some detail too. The forms contain 
specific information normally associated with life insurance considerations  height, weight, 
medical, existing life cover and needs analysis for instance. And it seems clear the question 
of how much extra life cover was needed at that time was also discussed at some length. 
So, whilst Id understand if Mrs S recollection of the events has dimmed in the 20+ years 
since the meeting, Im satisfied the evidence shows extra life cover was discussed at the 
meeting at Mrs S home. Im similarly satisfied that Mrs S agreed to take out the extra life cover as well. I 
acknowledge what she says about her signature on the TAVC application form being at 
section 5 (the declaration), and the death benefits questions not then appearing until section 
7  so, in effect, she says she didnt sign for the death benefits. Mrs S believes this is/was 
misleading. But, the declaration at section 5 does include the following text:
I declare that any answers given in section 7 are true, and.I understand that such 
answers form the basis on which my death benefit under the Teachers AVC facility is 
insured.
And given what Ive already said above, Im satisfied that the information in section 7 had 
most likely been inserted before Mrs S signed and dated the form. 
I note Mrs S says she cant recall being sent any letters after the policy was taken out, such 
as a cooling-off letter. Its unfortunate that PRU hasnt been able to provide evidence of 
letters sent at that time (or since) that would show what information was sent to Mrs S. So, I 
have no way of knowing whether a cooling-off letter was sent or not. But, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that PRU would have sent something to Mrs S  policy documents 
for instance  at the time, which is standard practice when a policy such as this was taken 
out. 
I also think the death benefits met Mrs S needs at that time. Whilst Im satisfied her 
mortgage was most likely covered by the extra life insurance policy already in place 
(although I havent seen evidence of this), Mrs S only had the benefit of one years worth of 
salary life cover from her employer at the time. She had two young children, relatively small 
joint savings, and had identified a need to provide for their security in the fact find.
I acknowledge Mrs S now says the cover was never needed, because her employer life 
cover has increased to a multiple of three times her salary, and her TAVC pot would pay out 
in excess of £130,000 if she were to die whilst still in employment. However, I dont think this 
is a fair comparison. These are the values now, whereas the decision to apply for the death 
benefits was based on Mrs S situation in 1995  when her employer cover was limited to 
£14,500, and the TAVC would not have accrued much/any value that could be paid out. 
Mrs S also raises the issue that she and her husband had significant insurance at the time, 
and so this extra death benefit wasnt needed. Whilst it may have been true her husband 
had other life insurance, the documents show Mrs S was clear to avoid mentioning anything 
about his financial circumstances at the time, whether that be pension or death benefits (the 
exception being the joint mortgage-linked policy). This was an application process that Mrs S 
appeared to want to focus solely on her own financial affairs. So, I dont think its fair or 
appropriate to now introduce her husbands value-unknown pension or death benefits to 
justify why Mrs S extra death policy wasnt needed. And as Ive already concluded, Mrs S 
extra death benefits were discussed and identified as being needed.
Mrs S has also questioned why a TAVC amendment form from 1996, increasing her pension 
contribution rate, contains no entries relating to death benefits  and that this further 
supports her belief shed never agreed to the extra life cover. I dont agree. The purpose of 
the amendment form was to record Mrs S wish to increase her pension contributions and 
was completed for that sole purpose. There would have been no need to include any death 
benefit details, unless Mrs S wished to alter the sum covered, which she didnt. So, for the reasons set out above, I think its likely Mrs S did apply/knew she was applying 
for enhanced death benefits when taking out her TAVC policy in 1995, and that it was likely 
suitable for her based on her financial circumstances at the time. So, I wont be asking PRU 
to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman