DRN-4282893
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings insurance claim.  
Mrs M is being represented in her complaint by Mr M.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What my decision doesnt consider
In my decision, I can only consider the actions of Ageas in its handling and involvement in 
Mrs Ms claim. I understand there are other parties involved in the claim such as the 
management company of Mrs Ms rental property (S) and the broker who arranged the policy 
on Ss behalf (C). 
However, having reviewed matters Im satisfied neither of these parties were acting on 
behalf of Ageas, so I wont be commenting on their actions and any references to them in my 
decision are only for the context of answering this complaint.
Mr M has questioned whether Mrs M has a contractual relationship with C. However, this is a 
matter Mr M will need to take up with S and C directly. And again, this isnt something I will 
comment on here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M said she submitted the claim in April 2022. However, I can see from 
correspondence that it wasnt until June 2022 Ageas received an email from C to 
notify them of the claim. So, while C, and most likely S, would have been aware of 
the claim from April 2022, Ive seen nothing that shows Ageas were aware until June 
2022.
Three quotes were submitted to Ageas within the claim. Ageas indicated to C it was 
happy to accept the most cost effective and asked for further information to be 
submitted regarding water damage to the bathroom. I can see Ageas didnt receive 
this until July 2022, over a month later. But it approved costs for it on the same day.
So, Im not persuaded Ageas are responsible for any delays between April and July 
2022.
Mr M indicated it was known a loss of rent claim was being made as early as May 
2022. From reviewing correspondence, I can see Ageas were made aware of a claim 
for loss of rent by C at the end of July 2022. But Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me Ageas was made aware before this date.
Insurers will sometimes settle claims up to a certain value, without the need for 
further validation  this isnt unusual. But because the claim for loss of rent 
significantly increased costs, Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. I 
dont think this unreasonable in the circumstances, and I dont think there was a 
delay caused by Ageas here as Im satisfied it wasnt aware of the loss of rent claim 
until July 2022.
Ageas inspected the property and provided its report in August 2022, in around 3 
weeks of being made aware of the addition of the loss of rent claim. I think this was 
done within a reasonable timeframe. However, Ageas concluded the scope of works 
submitted to it previously was incomplete, and further work was required. Ageas 
agreed to increase its settlement as a result.
I understand Mr M feels Ageas have caused delay here by not reviewing the work 
submitted with the original quotes. But the contractors that provided these quotes 
were not sourced by Ageas, or acting on its behalf, so I dont think Ageas should be 
held responsible for this. 
In making a claim, the policyholder needs to present that they have a valid claim. A 
claim was presented to Ageas and it took a commercial decision to accept one of the 
quotes without need of validating it further  which it is entitled to do. The quotes 
were prepared and presented by professionals, so I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Ageas to trust they would be accurate.
While I can understand Mr Ms frustration, I dont think Ageas are responsible for 
causing any delays in respect to this. And in adding the work required and agreeing 
to meet these costs, its done what I would expect it to.
After agreeing the additional costs for works, I can see Ageas made C aware it was 
waiting for a copy of Mrs Ms tenancy agreement. I can see this was provided to 
Ageas in September 2022 and cost approval was finalised.
There was a discrepancy in the settlement provided for loss of rent, with some 
months omitted from the final amount. This appears to be the period before Ageas 
were made aware of the claim (April to June 2022) and had not been accounted for 
on its system. 
Ageas rectified this to extend the cover to April 2022. It also offered Mrs M £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. I can appreciate why this would have 
been frustrating and I agree this could have been rectified quicker than it was. But in 
the circumstances, I think Ageas offer of compensation is fair in recognising the 
inconvenience its actions caused.
There were also issues with payments initially being made to S rather than to Mrs M 
directly. Mrs M has said it took around a month for the money to be provided to her 
via S. I can understand this would have added further to Mrs Ms frustration, but 
Ageas has to ensure payments are made to the policyholder, which in this case is S. 
I can see Ageas later obtained authorisation for these payments to be made straight 
to Mrs M and this took some time. But again, from reviewing the information available 
to me I think Ageas acted in a timely fashion in actioning matters when it received the 
authority  and I cant see anything that persuades me it was responsible for a delay 
here.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman