DRN-3153457
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Newline Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim made on his
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had the benefit of a business protection insurance policy underwritten by Newline.
Mr L sought to claim cover under the malpractice liability section of the policy, but this was
declined by Newline as, it said, the allegations against him related to sexual misconduct. It
said this wasnt covered under the policy. Unhappy, Mr L brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said Newline had unfairly relied on an
exclusion to decline the claim. He concluded that Newline should cover Mr Ls legal costs of
defending the claim going forwards and should reimburse the costs hed already incurred
together with 8% simple interest from the date on which they were paid. He also said 
Newline should pay Mr L £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience hed experienced as 
a result of what Newline did wrong.
As Newline disagreed, Mr Ls complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh to 
decide.
I issued my provisional decision in May 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to
uphold his complaint. An extract of which appears below:
Newline has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly, and it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
The policy says that Newline:
agrees to indemnify [Mr L] against all sums that [Mr L] shall become legally liable to
pay as Damages and Claimants costs and expenses in respect of any Claim for
Bodily Injury caused by Malpractice within the Territorial Limits which is first made
against the Insured during the Period of Insurance.
The period of insurance is defined as that set out in the schedule of insurance  which is
19 November 2019 to 18 November 2020.
And claim is defined as:
the receipt by the Insured of any written demand for compensation made by a third
party or an assertion of Malpractice against the Insured or any Claim form, writ,
summons or other originating process issued and serviced upon the Insured and it
was made against [Mr L] during the period of insurance.
The letter of claim setting out the allegations against Mr L is dated 6 December 2019 and Im
satisfied this constitutes a claim as defined under the policy, and it was made against Mr L
during the period of insurance.
The parties agree that the claim is for bodily injury as defined by the policy.
Malpractice is defined as:
negligent act, negligent error or negligent omission committed by [Mr L] or by any
person or organisation acting on behalf of [Mr L] in the conduct of the insureds
business to a client(s).
Having considered the allegations against Mr L, as set out in the letter of claim, Im satisfied
that the bodily injury which is alleged to have been sustained by the Claimant is alleged to
have been caused by sexual acts committed without her consent. As well as alleging that
these acts amount to negligence, the letter of claim alleges that they amount to sexual
assaults and trespass to the person, as well as an intentional infliction of harm.
The policy contains a number of exclusions; one of which is that:
the policy does not indemnify [Mr L] against any loss, liability, Claim or Defence
Costs arising out of, caused by, resulting from, in consequence of, in connection with
or in any way involving...
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT
Any sexual misconduct of any nature, including sexual relations, sexual contact or
intimacy, sexual harassment, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation or sexual
discrimination, whether or not under the guise or in the course of therapy or
treatment. 
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Although sexual misconduct isnt expressly defined, Im satisfied that the exclusion sets out
several examples of what constitutes sexual misconduct under the policy.
Given the nature of the Claimants allegations, Im currently persuaded that Newline has
fairly and reasonably concluded that the exclusion applies to the claim Mr L made under the
policy. And it has therefore acted fairly and reasonably by relying on this exclusion to decline
Mr Ls claim. Ill explain why.
The Claimant alleges that Mr L engaged in sexual relations, sexual contact and intimacy,
without her consent, in the course of the therapy and treatment carried out by Mr L.
Mr Ls representative says the claim brought against Mr L isnt in respect of any offence that
is being actively pursued against Mr L pursuant to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (the Act)
and, as such, isnt a claim against him arising out of sexual misconduct as defined by
English law. They say its a common law claim for professional negligence and / or
malpractice concerning alleged breaches of the duty of care owed by Mr L to the Claimant
when providing his services to her. Mr Ls representative goes on to say that the claim is
therefore covered by the policy and not subject to the sexual misconduct exclusion.
However, Im not persuaded thats right.
Having considered the list of sexual offences that someone can be prosecuted for in
England and Wales, there isnt an offence of sexual misconduct. I can see from the bail
cancellation notice dated 2017 that the criminal charge against Mr L was rape of a woman
16 years of age or over. And whilst I accept what Mr Ls representative says about therebeing insufficient evidence to support a prosecution  as thats stated on the bail cancellation
notice - the offence wasnt stated to be sexual misconduct.
Further, nowhere in the policy does it say that for the exclusion to apply the allegations made
of a sexual nature must amount to a criminal act. Nor does it say that the Crown Prosecution
Service (CPS) must support a charge under the Act, or that Mr L has to be convicted of an
offence under the Act for the exclusion to apply.
So, I dont agree that the reference to sexual misconduct should be given the meaning
ascribed to it by English Law, as Mr Ls representative says. Nor do I agree that its relevant
that a criminal charge for an offence under the Act wasnt pursued against Mr L, despite
being questioned by the police.
Whats relevant is the nature of the allegations against Mr L. And Im satisfied that they fall
within the examples given under the heading sexual misconduct in the policy.
Im therefore persuaded that it would be unfair to confine the exclusion to claims where
criminal proceedings relating to a sexual offence are being pursued by the CPS. And I dont
think sexual discrimination would be mentioned in the exclusion if it was restricted to
allegations that amount to criminal offences of a sexual nature under the Act. Sex
discrimination is a civil action which can be brought pursuant to the Equality Act 2010; its
not a criminal offence.
Ive also taken on board what Mr Ls representative says about it being unfair to apply the
sexual misconduct exclusion arising out of any type of sexual activity - particularly in
circumstances when Newline provided cover under a scheme directed specifically to sexual
therapists (including therapists who engage in controlled sexual activity with their clients like
Mr L).
They say such an interpretation of this exclusion would frustrate the very purpose of the
professional indemnity cover purchased by accredited practitioners of sexual therapy. But
the exclusion is set out in the policy; and I think it is clear.
Even if Newline unreasonably relied on the exclusion to decline the claim (which I dont think
it did), under the policy malpractice is defined as the negligent act, negligent error or
negligent omission committed by [Mr L] in the conduct of the insureds business to a
client...
Insureds Business is defined under the policy as that stated in the schedule of insurance.
Insured Business isnt explicitly mentioned in the schedule of insurance covering the period
19 November 2019 to 18 November 2020. But it does set out the insured activities as talk
therapy and bodywork. And I think its fair and reasonable to rely on those activities to
constitute the insured business.
Given the nature of the allegations, Im not persuaded that the alleged acts and omissions
against Mr L can fairly and reasonably be said to have been done in the course of talk
therapy and bodywork. And although Mr L may have also been offering sexual surrogacy to
clients when the acts and omissions are alleged to have taken place by the Claimant, sexual
surrogacy isnt detailed as part of Mr Ls business in the schedule of insurance covering the
period when the letter of claim was sent.
So, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Newline to cover the defence of
the claim against Mr L as the allegations dont arise out of therapy or bodywork.I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision, and to provide any further
information they felt was relevant.
Response to my provisional decision:
Newline confirmed that it had no further comments. Mr L didnt agree with my proposed 
findings. Hes raised several points since I issued my provisional decision. In summary he 
said:
My provisional findings on the scope of the exclusion are incorrect as a matter of law. 
Even if it were ambiguous, it is settled law that (a) any such exclusion should be 
construed strictly; and (b) any ambiguity should be construed against Newline. 
In circumstances where the policy provides cover for a practitioner of sexual therapy, 
its not fair and reasonable for the exclusion to exclude a purely civil claim which, 
whilst arising from necessarily sexual activity in the course of a sexual therapists 
practice, is pursued under a purely civil cause of action expressly covered by the 
policy (i.e. a malpractice claim).
DISP Rule 3.6.4 requires our Service to take into account: (1) relevant: (a) law and 
regulations. In the event I wish to disregard the law, Im required to provide 
detailed and adequate reasons for doing so. Mr L said he would obtain a barristers 
opinion explaining why the Sexual Misconduct Exclusion doesnt apply to the claim. 
However, hes subsequently confirmed that this wont be provided.
There is no principle of law or insurance practice which compels the interpretation of 
the exclusion in the overly-broad way Newline seeks. 
The subjective expressions: sexually inappropriate behaviour and sexual 
misconduct must be read in that proper context. Mr L says the inclusion of sexual 
discrimination in the exclusion shouldnt affect the proper interpretation of the clause 
for two reasons:
- sexual discrimination is not a form of sexual misconduct, such that its inclusion 
in the relevant clause would appear to be either misplaced or misguided; and
- elsewhere in the exclusion, for example, is sexual contact. Plainly for a 
practising sexual therapist those words cannot be taken literally. Rather, the 
proper interpretation of the exclusion is that it responds to sexual conduct, or 
misconduct, prohibited by the criminal law. That is the only operable definition of 
misconduct  to widen it leaves the clause open to wholly subjective and 
uncertain interpretation on the application of words such as relations, contact, 
intimacy, exploitation and so forth, if those terms are not grounded in and 
guided by the certainty of the criminal law.
Mr L says the witness statement of the managing director of the broker who sold Mr L 
the policy makes clear that the entirety of Newlines decision to decline the claim is 
grounded in a fundamental misunderstanding that whats being alleged against Mr L 
are criminal allegations rooted in the criminal law. And the witness statement 
confirms the policy doesnt respond to any such criminal allegations. However, 
theres nothing in the witness statement about what the intention of the policy is in 
respect of purely civil claims.
Having been investigated by the CPS, there are no criminal allegations against Mr L. The present case against Mr L is a civil claim, prospectively in the civil courts, 
alleging civil causes of action, arising from lawful sexual activity (absent a conviction 
otherwise) in the course of Mr Ls profession. 
Mr L has reiterated the nature of the allegations against him in the letter of claim. And 
he says the Claimant recognises that these are not criminal allegations as they 
include: 
- trespass against the person  a civil cause of action, not a criminal one;
- the tort of intentional infliction of harm (not to be confused with a criminal 
allegation of an offence against the person);
- civil allegations in negligence;
- civil allegations of professional misconduct;
- breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all further submissions put forward on behalf of Mr L. Although I havent 
addressed each and every point Mr Ls raised, I mean no discourtesy. Ive instead focused 
on the points that I consider to be most relevant to this complaint. I also note that some of 
the points raised by Mr L are more relevant to the overall suitability of the policy - and 
whether the policy was mis-sold to him. Ive considered those points as part of the separate 
complaint brought against the seller of the policy.
I know Mr L will be very disappointed, but I dont uphold his complaint against Newline. Ill 
explain why.
I dont agree that the exclusion is ambiguous as suggested by Mr L  or that Newline 
has interpreted it unfairly or unreasonably. And Im satisfied that I havent departed 
from established legal principles when making this finding.
As I explained in my provisional decision, nowhere in the policy does it say that for 
the exclusion to apply the allegations made of a sexual nature must amount to a 
criminal act. Nor does it say that the CPS must support a charge under the Sexual 
Offences Act 2003 - or that Mr L has to be convicted of an offence under the Act - for 
the exclusion to apply. Nor does it say that the exclusion is restricted to excluding 
cover for criminal proceedings rather than civil claims brought against Mr L, arising 
out of allegations of sexual misconduct. And I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to interpret it in that way.
Mr L has sought to rely on the following section of the witness statement of the 
managing director of the broker who sold the policy to Mr L to support his 
interpretation of the policy term: Sexual misconduct is excluded from the policy on 
the grounds that an allegation of this nature, and in particular in this case, would 
amount to an alleged criminal act, not a mere allegation of negligenceA 
policyholder cannot, as a matter of principle, insure against their own criminality or 
sexually inappropriate behaviour. Such cover does not exist, and there are sound 
moral and legal reasons for this. Although the allegations against Mr L, as set out in 
the letter of claim, are claims to be pursued in the civil Court, such allegations can 
also amount to alleged criminal behaviour  even if the CPS has decided not to 
pursue criminal charges against Mr L. So, I dont agree with Mr Ls interpretation of 
whats been said here.In any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, I think the nature of the 
allegations against Mr L are the relevant consideration here. And Im satisfied that 
they fall within the examples given under the heading sexual misconduct in the 
policy. Whilst I understand Mr Ls point about how widely the exclusion might be 
interpreted, the issue Ive decided in this case is whether Newline fairly relied on the 
exclusion to decline the Mr Ls claim  taking into account the allegations made 
against him in the letter of claim. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think it has. Im 
therefore persuaded that Newline has acted fairly and reasonably by relying on the 
exclusion to decline Mr Ls claim made under the policy.
Further, even if Newline unreasonably relied on the exclusion to decline the claim (which I 
dont think it did), under the policy malpractice is defined as the negligent act, negligent 
error or negligent omission committed by [Mr L] in the conduct of the insureds business to 
a client...
Insureds Business is defined under the policy as that stated in the schedule of insurance.
Insured Business isnt explicitly mentioned in the schedule of insurance covering the period
19 November 2019 to 18 November 2020. But it does set out the insured activities as talk
therapy and bodywork. And I think its fair and reasonable to rely on those activities to
constitute the insured business as I explained in my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional decision, given the nature of the allegations, Im not 
persuaded that the alleged acts and omissions against Mr L can fairly and reasonably be 
said to have been done in the course of talk therapy and bodywork. And although Mr L may 
have also been offering sexual surrogacy to clients at the time when the acts and omissions 
are alleged to have taken place by the Claimant, sexual surrogacy isnt detailed as part of 
Mr Ls business in the schedule of insurance covering the period when the letter of claim 
was sent.
So, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Newline to cover the defence of
the claim against Mr L as the allegations dont arise out of therapy or bodywork.
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Newline Insurance Company Limited. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before 8 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman