DRN-2433658
The complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
Mr R added to his complaint points to include that he felt that Satsuma had refused him a 
repayment plan of £20, and later had recorded a default against him which he thinks was 
unfair. 
What happened
Mr R applied for and was approved for one loan on 26 September 2018. It was for £500 and 
the monthly repayments were scheduled to be £158 over six months. 
Mr R had declared to Satsuma that he was living at home, that he earned £2,500 a month, 
and had expenditure. Satsuma explained in its final response letter that it checked the 
information Mr R had given to it (income and expenditure) and where a higher level of 
expenditure was discovered it would use that higher figure. Satsuma set out in a table how it 
dealt with that information. I duplicate some of that table here and use rounded figures: 
Declared 
incomeMortgage/rent Financial 
commitmentsOther 
outgoingsTotal 
disposable 
incomeRemaining 
disposable 
after 
instalment 
Mr Rs 
declared 
figures£100 £300 £180 £1,920 £1,762
Satsumas 
adjusted 
figures£2,500
£100 £1,083 
(increased 
by £783)£327
(increased 
by £147)£989 £831
Mr R has told us that he was unemployed at the time, had a gambling problem and had 
multiple other loans which he thinks Satsuma ought to have picked up on.
 
He told Satsuma that he was in financial difficulties in or around January 2019. A repayment 
plan was set up which Mr R did not keep to. 
 
A debt collector was involved in July 2019 and Mr R repaid the debt and in or around 
October 2019. 
Mr R has sent to us a copy of his personal credit file dated 28 December 2017. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and issued three views. In summary her 
views were that:
She did not think that Satsuma had lent to him irresponsibly
She did not think that Satsuma hindered Mr Rs attempts to repay the loan or acted 
unfairly when he had told it about his financial difficulties. She did not think, for 
example, that Satsuma had refused any repayment plan amounts. She saw that 
Mr R offered amounts to pay each month and was accepted for a certain amount 
£50 - but then Mr R could not keep them up
She did not think that Satsuma had acted unfairly registering the default when it did.
So, our adjudicator did not uphold any of Mr Rs complaint points.
Mr R did not agree and summarised his position as: They were irresponsible in their initial 
lending and then irresponsible in not co-operating when I was experiencing difficulty. They 
made it impossible for me to avoid further financial harm.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. I have seen and read all of Mr Rs 
submissions to this service and the notes of his telephone conversations with our 
adjudicators. The matter remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Preliminary findings 
I need to make some preliminary findings to ensure that Mr R understands that I have 
considered all the points relevant to this complaint. 
Mr R was keen for us to assess his whole relationship with Provident which trades as 
Satsuma as he says he had other loans with other branches of Provident. These have been 
set up as separate complaints. What I have seen about the other loans with other Provident 
branches from information provided by Mr R, was that those others do not overlap or were 
approved well before this Satsuma loan or post-date it. And so, I doubt that they would have 
made a difference as they would have had little bearing on it. 
I noted that there were declined loan applications before Mr R successfully applied for this 
loan with Satsuma, but the last one was in May 2017 and so sixteen months before this 
application. I think its reasonable, and in line with our approach, for Satsuma to have 
approached Mr Rs application as if he was a fresh customer and/or a customer where the 
gap was sufficiently large between his applications for it to be reasonable to think his 
circumstances had improved. 
Irresponsible lending 
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider a number of 
different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R took one loan and it would be disproportionate for Satsuma to do more than it did. The 
points that Mr R has made about how he thinks this loan application ought to have been 
approached suggests to me that he would have liked a full financial review to have been 
done in September 2018. And then, he says, the loan would likely have been refused. 
It was proportionate and within the affordability assessment regulations for Satsuma to rely 
on the income and expenditure information Mr R gave it, and then to adjust upwards the 
expenditure figures following its checks. Having done that, Satsuma had calculated that he 
was likely able to afford the £158 a month. I know that Mr R does not agree with that 
approach, but that is how we approach irresponsible lending complaints.  
Mr Rs credit search results from Satsuma show me that it knew he had had a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) but that it was 71 months before this application in September 2018. I do 
not think it unusual that Satsuma would have factored into its decision making that the CCJ 
was close to 6 years old. The credit search results also show that he had one other payday 
loan and no outstanding arrears on it. It may have seen he had a default status in the past 
but that usually is not enough for a lender to decline an application.
Mr R has sent to us a copy of his personal credit file dated 28 December 2017. This 
pre-dates the 26 September 2018 approval by nine months and so was not going to provide 
me with Mr Rs financial picture at the time of the loan. So, I have not been able to rely on 
that information.
Its not likely or expected that Satsuma would have asked to see and review bank 
statements for a first loan. And that is because at that stage of the lending relationship, (and 
I have accounted for the sixteen month gap from the earlier declined application in 
May 2017) Id not expect such an in-depth analysis to have taken place. And so, unless Mr R 
had volunteered his gambling costs, then I have no reason to think that Satsuma would have 
known about them. 
It is not likely that Satsuma would have been aware or likely to have found out that Mr R had 
received a P45  a Tax notification of the end of his job  unless he had told it. Mr R has 
explained to us that he consciously chose not to inform Satsuma about his job being at risk. 
Mr R goes on to say that still he thinks that it was Satsumas responsibility to carry out 
responsible and proportionate checks. When considering these details, then I understand 
that Satsuma did carry out checks on the information Mr R had told it. And I have decided 
that any income verification checks carried out by Satsuma would have revealed salaries of 
£2,528 in July 2018 and £2,375 in August 2018 which are in line with his declared income of 
£2,500. And so, Satsuma would not have had cause for concern. 
And Mr Rs explanations demonstrate to me that at the time he was applying for this loan, its 
more likely he wanted to obtain the loan and therefore I doubt that he would have 
volunteered the fact he had just been given his P45.
 
I am satisfied that Satsuma did what I would have expected it to do for a loan of £500, 
repayable in instalments over a relatively short time. I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
irresponsible lending. 
Repayment plans and default
Mr R has made several points about what happened after the loan was approved. And some 
of these points are summarised here: 
- Mr R says that Satsuma did not co-operate fairly when payments were missed, 
resulting in further financial harm and an unfair default marker being added;
- Mr R has told us that he was unhappy that the default was entered after nine months 
of non-payment and/or token payments and he thinks that it should have been 
applied sooner; 
- And Mr R has said hed like the default removed. 
- I believe that if Satsuma had accepted my original offer of £20 per month this would 
have been affordable and a default could have been avoided.
I have the account notes of the contacts and correspondence between Mr R and Satsuma 
personnel commencing 26 September 2018. 
Mr R started to communicate with Satsuma about a delay in paying in November 2018. His 
explanation was that he had changed jobs but his new salary would be higher and so the 
£158 each month would be affordable going forward. A token payment was agreed for 
20 November 2018 and then the agreed payment for December 2018 was £253.33. 
Satsumas records of the payments show that Mr R did pay £33 on 20 November 2018 and 
£253.33 on 20 December 2018.
In mid-January 2019 Mr R informed Satsuma of being in financial difficulties. As well as 
explaining his position Mr R said: I would be grateful if you could agree to a £20 per month 
payment plan for now, in the hope that I can increase payments when my situation 
improves. 
Satsuma replied to say that the specialist team would be in contact with him. On 
21 January 2019 Mr R was asked by Satsuma for more details about his change of 
circumstances. He was given contact details for debt advice charities. 
Mr Rs response on 26 January 2019 was to say: Hi, My employment status has changed; 
I am now a self-employed contractor. Therefore I can't commit to the initially agreed monthly 
payment. I can commit to £50 per month to clear the current balance as it stands, if you 
would be kind enough to freeze interest and charges.
Satsuma responded to his 26 January 2019 email a few days later and asked sensible and 
pertinent questions surrounding Mr Rs situation. It commenced by agreeing to help and 
said: We can certainly look at setting this up for you. I will need to ask you a few questions 
to make sure we are setting up the most affordable and sustainable arrangement for you, 
There is a gap in communication in the account notes until March 2019 and I cannot see that 
any £50 or £20 payments were made by Mr R to Satsuma during that time. 
I note that Mr R has recently mentioned that he thinks call recordings will demonstrate 
Satsuma decided to refuse his £20 a month offer. But I do not think that theres any evidence 
of any calls having taken place during this time as the contact seems to have been by email. 
Mr R is likely to have copies of those emails having sent and received them. 
Theres no reference in these Satsuma account notes to the £20 a month suggested by Mr R 
being refused. Even if it was refused, I have reviewed the regulations surrounding how a 
business should act when a customer approaches it about being in financial difficulties and 
I am satisfied that for the £20 suggested repayment plan to be refused  if it was  would not 
have been unreasonable as it was a greatly reduced figure than the £158 a month originally 
agreed. And Mr R was giving explanations to Satsuma which suggested it was a temporary 
issue and that the situation would improve. And in any event, the refusal, if there was one, was not referred to or challenged by Mr R in the next email exchange. Instead he offered a 
higher figure of £50 a month. I know that Mr R has said he thinks that he was pressured into 
offering £50 but I do not think that the evidence suggests any pressure to offer a certain 
amount. 
And I have looked at the bank statements Mr R has sent to see if the £50 a month was too 
much for him and that the £20 a month was likely to have made such a difference that the 
default could have been avoided. And I do not think it was the situation in late January 2019. 
A summary for the statement covering 10 January 2019 to 8 February 2019 shows that Mr R 
received £10,279 and paid out £9,989 leaving an overall balance of £261. I appreciate that 
some of these outgoings were for other loans and gambling costs, but I dont think that 
Mr Rs contention that Satsumas alleged refusal of a £20 a month repayment plan made the 
significant difference on Mr R that he says that it has. 
In March 2019 the account notes show that Mr R called Satsuma. The reason was about a 
missed payment. The Satsuma records show that nothing had been received since 
December 2018. He explained that he was out of work and declined to complete an income 
and expenditure form (I&E) as he did not think it would give a true reflection of income as 
he had no set wage. He offered £50 a month for three months and then to go back to the 
normal repayment sums. The notes go one to say that Mr Rs Continuous Payment Authority 
(CPA) was updated. 
The next note says that this arrangement was removed on 29 April 2019 due to 
non-payment. An I&E form was sent to him on 28 May 2019. The Satsuma records show 
that a debt collection agency became involved and payments were received on 6 July 2019 
and 10 August 2019 of £40 each.
Mr R brought the irresponsible lending complaint against Satsuma in August 2019. Mr R 
states in that complaint letter that a default marker had been entered on his credit file by 
then and he felt that this was unfair. The debt was paid in October 2019.
As I have said earlier, Mr R has sent to us a copy of his personal credit file dated 
28 December 2017. This pre-dates the 26 September 2018 approval by nine months and so 
was not going to provide me with Mr Rs accurate financial credit situation at the time of the 
loan. And because of the date of this record, I have not seen the exact date the default was 
entered. 
I have considered all these points and that Mr R seems to be complaining that he would 
have wanted the default applied earlier, not later. But I do not agree. 
My decision in relation to the repayment arrangements and Mr Rs complaint that the default 
ought to have been entered earlier and that he wants it removed are: 
- Satsuma acted reasonably and helped when Mr R asked for it; and 
- Mr R has accepted that there were months of non-payment and/or what he describes 
as token payments. Satsumas records reflect this. 
- I do not think that Satsuma did anything wrong by showing forbearance when Mr R 
needed it; and 
- I do not think that obtaining call recordings, if there are any, of an alleged refusal of a 
£20 repayment plan would likely make a difference to my decision. And for 
completeness I have considered the situation if Satsuma had refused to allow Mr R 
to repay £20 and I do not think any such refusal would have been unreasonable or 
have made a difference to Mr Rs financial situation; 
- I cannot conclude that Satsuma was wrong to enter the default when it did. I think it 
was properly applied. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman