DRN-3920258
The complaint
Mr R complains that he didnt receive some statements for his Barclays Bank UK PLC 
current account. Hes also unhappy with the level of service hes received.
What happened
Mr R holds a current account with Barclays. Since April 2022, hes said that statements for 
his account havent arrived at his address on three occasions.
As a result, he needed to call Barclays and spend much time on the phone to obtain copies 
of the missing statements. Having spoken with Barclays, Mr R received copies of all 
statements for his current account from May 2022. He was unhappy with that because hed 
only asked for copies of specific statements, not all. So, he complained.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, so he contacted our service for an independent 
review.
An investigator here looked at what had happened. In summary, she said:
Barclays has evidenced that it is sending Mr R his statements, and to the correct 
address. So, theres nothing to suggest something is wrong on Barclays part. 
Its possible that Mr R hadnt been receiving some of his statements because of 
disruption affecting Royal Mail, which isnt something Barclays could control. 
Barclays has apologised for sending Mr R copies of some statements which he 
hadnt requested. It also apologised to Mr R for the time hed had to spend on the 
phone which, in the circumstances, was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr R disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator  and for much the 
same reasons.
Ive noted Mr Rs unhappiness at not receiving some statements. But there could be several 
reasons why some of his statements didnt arrive and, while it wouldnt be helpful of me to 
speculate here, it doesnt mean that its down to something Barclays did wrong.
 
Barclays has provided evidence to show that Mr Rs statements were produced, that they 
were sent by post, and that they were sent to his correct address. So, put simply, theres 
nothing to suggest that Barclays hasnt done what it was required to do.
  
Barclays has apologised for sending Mr R copies of more statements than he asked for, and 
I think that was the right thing to do in the circumstances. I can understand if Mr R was 
unhappy about receiving more paperwork than he needed but Ill also say that, in my view, I 
think Barclays was just trying to be helpful.
I think it was right too for Barclays to acknowledge the length of time Mr R had to spend on 
the phone. It can be frustrating to have to wait. But its also true to say that, sometimes, we 
all experience some inconvenience. And I dont think that accepting things couldve been a 
little better requires Barclays to pay Mr R compensation here. Instead, in the circumstances 
of this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays apology is enough.
 
With all of that in mind, I dont find that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. It 
follows that I dont require the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman