DRN-3823348
The complaint
Mr T complains about the valuation Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
van following a claim on his motor insurance policy for its total loss. He wants this increased 
and compensation for his claims experience. 
What happened
Mr T was unhappy with the valuation Markerstudy placed on his van after it was declared to 
be a total loss. Mr T said he couldnt replace his van for this amount, and it didnt take into 
account the modifications hed made to it. Mr T told Markerstudy it would cost £47,776 to 
replace the van and add the modifications, excluding labour to fit the parts. 
Markerstudy assessed the vans market value and added the modifications. It offered Mr T 
£32.092 in settlement of his claim. But Mr T was unhappy with this. Markerstudy also offered 
Mr T £75 compensation for communication issues at the start of the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Markerstudys valuation of the van was fair and reasonable as it took into account the vans 
market value, in keeping with our approach, and the modifications that Mr T had made. She 
thought the higher valuation that Mr T wanted would put him in a better position than before. 
She thought Markerstudys compensation for the service issues at the start of the claim was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr T replied that he thought the trade guides didnt represent real world costs. He said hed 
paid £30,000 for a replacement van that had no modifications at all. But the Investigator 
thought this was for a newer van with lower mileage. Mr T provided a bespoke valuation of 
£39,000 for his old van at the date of its loss. But the Investigator thought this didnt allow for 
depreciation and that the modifications were after-market. Mr T asked for an Ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. I can see that his 
policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. This is defined by his 
policy as:
The cost of replacing the insured vehicle at the time of loss or damage compared with one 
of the same make, model, specification and condition. The market value will be assessed 
by an automotive engineer in conjunction with the published trade guides at the time of loss.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont 
provide valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr T doesnt agree with our approach. But it is one that we consider treats 
both insurers and consumers fairly. 
Our Investigator thought Markerstudys valuation of the vans market value was fair and 
reasonable. So Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. Markerstudy provided 
evidence of three valuations for the van that it had found in the trade guides we use. I can 
see that these contain the correct details for the van at the date of its loss. So I think its fair 
and reasonable to rely upon them as being correctly carried out according to our approach.
These valuations had a range. And, also in keeping with our approach, Markerstudy 
discarded the lowest one which was an outlier. It then took an average of the other two to 
arrive at a base value of £27,411.60. Mr T provided evidence of the cost of modifications 
hed made to the van. These totalled about £11,000. Markerstudys engineer considered 
these and thought an increase of £4,681 to £32,092 was reasonable.
Markerstudy then had a senior manager review this valuation. And then it compared this to 
advertised prices for vans of a similar age and mileage that were fully converted. So I think it 
took reasonable steps to validate the valuation it was offering Mr T. The Investigator also 
validated this by seeking a bespoke valuation for Mr Ts van. But this gave a lower valuation 
than Markerstudys offer. 
Mr T said hed bought a replacement van for £30,000. But I agree with the Investigator that 
this isnt a like for like replacement as it is newer and has lower mileage. 
And Im also not persuaded that the bespoke valuation Mr T provided shows that 
Markerstudys valuation wasnt reasonable. This is because it includes the actual costs of 
the modifications rather than their market value. And it doesnt allow for them being made 
after-market rather than factory-fitted, which would make them more attractive to the market.
So Im satisfied that Markerstudys valuation of the market value Mr Ts van at the date of its 
loss was fair and reasonable. And I dont require it to increase this. 
Ive also looked at the level of service that Markerstudy provided to Mr T whilst handling his 
claim. I can see that it caused Mr T frustration and stress at the start of the claim when it 
couldnt tell Mr T where his van was stored. And I can understand that Mr T was worried 
about his personal effects. I think Mr Ts further concerns were about his claim settlement. 
And, as I think Markerstudys settlement was fair and reasonable, I dont think it did anything 
wrong in this. 
Markerstudy paid Mr T £75 compensation for its service failings. I think thats in keeping with 
our published guidance for the level of impact these caused Mr T. And so I think this was fair 
and reasonable and I dont require Markerstudy to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman