DRN-4222841
The complaint
Miss J complains that ITI Capital Limited failed to return her share certificate to her after she 
closed her account.
What happened
Miss J asked to close her account with ITI on 1 August 2022. On 6 September 2022, Miss J 
asked ITI to return her share certificate to her so she could set up a new account.
ITI replied to Miss J on 17 September 2022 to say they would contact the relevant 
departments and get back to her. Miss J sent an email to ITI on 17 October 2022 to chase a 
response and ask for a completed reregistration form to be sent to her so she could transfer 
her shares to a new provider. Miss J chased things up again on 2 November 2022, when 
she asked what would happen to her dividend payments now her account was closed, and 
on 9 November 2022.
ITI replied to Miss J on 22 February 2023. They said they were unable to provide a copy of 
her share certificate, but they would transfer her holdings free of charge. Miss J again asked 
for a reregistration form to be sent to her.     
Our investigator looked into Miss Js complaint and said:
ITIs delay in responding was unreasonable and Miss J should be compensated £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
She noted that ITI had requested that the share certificate be issued to Miss J and 
endorsed that as part of her recommendations on how ITI should put things right. 
Both Miss J and ITI said that they accepted our investigators findings and I understand that 
ITI have paid Miss J £100 in compensation. 
Miss J has said however that she has still not received her share certificate or a completed 
reregistration form that would enable her to transfer her shares to another provider. 
As this matter has still not been resolved, it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
An ombudsmans final decision is very formal. If its accepted by the person who brought the 
complaint, it becomes legally binding. It can be enforced by a court if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied that there have been failings in the service ITI have provided to Miss J. She told 
ITI she didnt want to sell her shares but transfer them to a new provider. Miss J asked ITI to 
return her share certificate in September 2022, but despite saying they would get back to her 
they didnt reply until February 2023. 
Miss J has still not received either her share certificate or a completed reregistration form 
that would enable her to transfer her shares to another provider. Despite requests from our 
service, ITI have not offered any explanation as to why it would not be possible to provide 
what Miss J has requested.
 
I have therefore decided to uphold Miss Js complaint. She has said she didnt want to sell 
her shares, so she has not suffered any financial loss that might have arisen from being 
unable to do so. But Miss J has suffered distress and inconvenience and it is right that ITI 
have now compensated her for that.
To put things right, ITI should send Miss J the documentation she requires - her share 
certificate and/or a reregistration form  so that she can transfer her shares to another 
provider. They should do so without charge and within 28 days of Miss Js acceptance of this 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint against 
ITI Capital Limited. 
 
ITI should put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman