DRN-2725457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs S were applying to borrow more money on their existing mortgage and 
the bank recommended they also take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered 
Mr S only. It cost just over £13 a month and would have paid out £250 a month if Mr S had 
made a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs S say they only bought the PPI because they were told they had to: they say 
they wouldnt have done so if theyd realised it was optional. Mr and Mrs S think the bank 
was wrong to sell them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
Mr and Mrs S initially told us theyd bought PPI when they first got their mortgage in 1985. 
Santander says it has no records of a sale then, and indeed that it didnt start selling PPI 
until 1987. It says it does have a record showing a sale in 2001. We told Mr and Mrs S about 
this and they havent disagreed with this or provided any evidence of holding a PPI policy 
before 2001.
Mr and Mrs Ss main concern is that they say they were told they had to have the PPI. 
Santander only has limited paperwork for the additional loan and the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place nearly 20 years ago and the mortgage ended in 2010. I 
wouldnt expect either Mr and Mrs S or Santander to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Santander sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and 
Mrs S were given a choice about buying the PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed at the 
time as I wasnt there. And I accept the member of staff might have said it was a good idea 
to buy the PPI  but that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. And I see that it was set up to 
cover Mr S only. That does suggest that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time 
and it was tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Ss needs. 
Ive seen part of the application documents  and they show that there are options for both 
buying or not buying the PPI. Mr and Mrs S say that as the information doesnt come directly 
from the member of staff who interviewed them then it cant be completely reliable  nor that 
any paperwork is accurate. I think the paperwork from the time is the most reliable 
information we have as its contemporaneous and doesnt rely on memory. Normal 
procedures at the time meant Mr and Mrs S would have had to complete and sign a 
separate application form to get the PPI, and set up a direct debit to pay for it. Although I 
havent seen completed forms, I dont think the PPI would have been set up without these. 
I can see from the letter offering to lend additional money to Mr and Mrs S that theres no 
mention of compulsory PPI. This is where such things are laid out.
Santander also sent a welcome letter about the PPI to Mr S  and the relevant literature to 
Mr and Mrs S after the sale. I think this would have been before the PPI actually started, as 
theres often a delay between buying PPI and cover starting, which is when the mortgage (or 
in this case additional borrowing) begins. Thats what Santander normally did, and I cant 
see any reason why it would treat Mr and Mrs S differently. The terms and conditions for the 
PPI set out how the policy could be cancelled. Id think that if Mr and Mrs S felt worried at all 
about the PPI they would have checked these and asked about cancellation. I cant see they 
did that.
Overall, I think Santander most likely gave Mr and Mrs S enough information for them to 
know they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this 
over the years.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This means that it needed to 
ensure that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable for Mr S.
- Mr S was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any of 
the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions. 
- Mr S says he would have only received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work, and limited 
savings. So this policy could have been useful to help Mr and Mrs S meet their 
commitments if Mr S couldnt work for a period of time. 
- Santander needed to give Mr and Mrs S enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what 
the PPI would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs S first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that Santander could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused him to 
change his mind about buying the policy. So he isnt any worse off as a result of anything 
Santander may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Santander needs to do to put 
things right.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman