DRN-3639040
The complaint
Mr B complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) wont refund 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the evidence Ive been provided, I understand it to be 
as follows.
In September 2021 Mr B was looking to buy a vehicle. He saw one advertised through an 
online marketplace that interested him. Mr B contacted the seller, who told him he bought 
cars at auction and sold them on. Mr B has said he searched the vehicles registration 
number on the DVLA website and found that it had been taxed recently and had recently 
had a transfer of owners, which he thought matched what the seller had told him.  
Mr B added that the seller was very knowledgeable of the area, which gave him confidence. 
Alongside this he was able to do a test drive and the seller had the documentation for the 
vehicle ready for him to review. Mr B negotiated a price of £5,000 with the seller, as on 
inspection it appeared the vehicle needed some repairs. Mr B decided to buy the vehicle 
and, on 30 September 2021, went ahead and made a payment for £5,000 to the bank details 
the seller gave him, which he was told were for his business partner.
Mr B took the vehicle home, registered it in his partners name and taxed and insured it. 
However, in early December 2021, over two months after Mr B had bought it, Mr B received 
a visit from the police, who seized the vehicle. The police said this was because the vehicle 
had previously been bought using a stolen credit card. Unfortunately, unknown to him at the 
time, Mr B had been dealing with a fraudster, and had sent money to an account they 
controlled.
 
Mr B complained to Clydesdale, but it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint as it didnt consider it 
should be held liable for the loss. Clydesdale did recognise that the service it provided, when 
Mr B reported the scam, could have been better and paid Mr B £100 compensation for this.
Mr B then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator considered whether Mr B was due a refund under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code), which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. She recommended Mr B be refunded under those considerations.
 
Clydesdale didnt agree with our investigators view. This was because it said it didnt 
become a signatory of the CRM code until February 2022. It said that as the payment Mr B 
had made was before this time, it couldnt assess the payment Mr B had made under the 
CRM code.
In view of Clydesdales comments, our investigator then looked into things again and didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. She explained that she couldnt apply the principles of the CRM 
code as Clydesdale were not signatories at the time he had made the payment. She 
considered whether there was any other reason why Clydesdale may have been liable, but 
she didnt think there was. 
The investigator considered it wasnt unreasonable that Clydesdale didnt recognise Mr B 
could be the victim of a scam when he made the payment. This was because she didnt think 
the payment Mr B made, to the fraudster, would have appeared as particularly unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to Clydesdale, considering Mr Bs normal accounts and payments 
activity. She added that even if Clydesdale had intervened, and had asked Mr B questions 
about the transaction, she didnt think the scam would have been uncovered. She said this 
because Mr B had both viewed and test driven the vehicle. Overall she didnt think 
Clydesdale had missed an opportunity to identify the payment was in relation to a scam. 
Our investigator added that she considered the £100 compensation Clydesdale had paid Mr 
B, for not recording his claim when he first reported it, was fair. She added that Clydesdale 
had been unable to recover any of the funds Mr B had lost from the receiving bank (the bank 
to which the money was paid). She said that given the payment was made in September and 
the scam didnt come to light until December, it was unlikely any funds would remain. This 
was because, generally, once a fraudster receives their victims payment it is withdrawn 
immediately, leaving no opportunity for the money to be claimed back. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr B, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Clydesdales actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to be 
made. I also dont think it would have been able to recover any of the money Mr B lost. So 
having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say 
Clydesdale should reimburse Mr B the £5,000 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudster. Ill 
explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr B, when Mr B transferred money to a fraudster and when Mr B reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
 
Im aware that our investigator initially reviewed this complaint with the principles of the CRM 
code in mind. However, as the payment Mr B made pre-dates when Clydesdale became 
signatories of this code, I am unable to consider the provisions of the CRM code in this 
decision. 
Mr B has accepted that he authorised the transfer. Because of this, Clydesdale had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Clydesdale shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Clydesdale has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious, in comparison to 
Mr Bs normal account activity, that it ought to have alerted Clydesdale that Mr B was at risk 
of financial harm.
The £5,000 faster payment Mr B made was for a fairly substantial sum and was to a new 
payee. But having looked through Mr Bs statements from the months leading up to the 
scam, I can see this wasnt the first larger payment he had made. And then, as here, the 
payment was funded by Mr B moving money into the account to facilitate the payment. The 
payment also didnt clear the majority of the balance on the account, which can sometimes 
be the indicator of a scam. 
Overall the payment simply didnt look so unusual or suspicious to me that I think Clydesdale 
ought to have intervened. As a result, I dont think Clydesdale acted unreasonably in not 
making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt enough here for me to 
think Clydesdale should have suspected Mr B might be the victim of a potential scam.
Even if I were to think that Clydesdale should have intervened, which for the avoidance of 
doubt I dont, I dont think it would have made a difference. I say this because if Clydesdale 
had contacted Mr B, before allowing the payment to be progressed, Id have expected it to 
ask some questions about the payment. For example, it could have asked what the payment 
was for, whether Mr B had seen the vehicle, whether Mr B knew the seller and whether hed 
carried out any research. Had Clydesdale asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mr B would have been able to give plausible and persuasive answers to the bank. He would 
have been able to explain hed carried out checks and had seen and test driven the vehicle.
 
Importantly he would also have been able to say he was taking possession of it. I dont think 
the answers Mr B would likely have given would have demonstrated the usual hallmarks of 
scams involving the purchase of vehicles, where typically victims dont tend to see or take 
possession of a vehicle, before paying money to the fraudsters.
Given the answers I think Mr B is likely to have given, I think Clydesdale would have been 
satisfied Mr B was not at risk of financial harm and I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say 
Clydesdale should have foreseen that the vehicle may have been stolen. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Clydesdale did what it shouldve done once Mr B 
reported to it that hed been the victim of a scam. Clydesdale recognised that the service it 
provided could have been better, and has paid £100 in recognition of this. Considering the 
circumstances of this case I think this is fair and reasonable.
 
In this case I can see it wasnt until around two months after the payment that Mr B became 
aware that hed been scammed. Clydesdale wasnt able to recover any of the money Mr B 
lost. But sadly, this isnt surprising  as typically a fraudster will move a victims money out of 
the receiving account, soon after it has been paid, to avoid the opportunity for funds to be 
recovered.
 
Its very unfortunate Mr B has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Clydesdale should have done more to prevent 
him losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Clydesdale to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman