DRN-3742960
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr N on behalf of a company, F. 
F complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim under its commercial 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
Any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
F has a commercial LEI policy which is underwritten by Aviva.
F contacted Aviva to report a claim for breach of contract regarding the sale of its 
business and to pursue legal action against a former employee. 
Aviva said that because the breach of contract was in connection with the sale of a 
business, it wouldnt provide cover. It referred F to its policy wording which says: 
We will represent You in any Legal Proceedings for civil action relating to a 
contractual dispute arising from an agreement or alleged agreement which has been 
entered into by You or on Your behalf for the sale, provision, purchase or hire of 
goods or of services []
Avivas position is that a business isnt either goods or services and that when 
given its ordinary and legal definition, goods refers to personal, moveable property 
 which it considers a business not to be.
F disagreed, saying there had been no sale of a business, only goods and assets - 
and so, the claim ought to be covered. 
With regards to the employment dispute, F has accepted Avivas position that the 
policy provides cover for defending legal rights as opposed to pursuing legal action, 
and so this element of the claim isnt covered.
F brought a complaint to this Service. An investigator didnt uphold it. He was 
satisfied the business couldnt be considered goods for the purpose of the policy 
wording and so, considered Avivas decision to decline cover to be fair. 
F remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The policy says cover may be provided for a claim about a breach of contract relating to the 
buying or hiring of goods or services. The key issue here is whether Fs contract is for the 
sale of goods and if the sale of a business comes within the definition of goods. 
The policy doesnt define what goods means and so, I need to consider whether a 
reasonable definition of that word would include a business. I dont think it does and Ill 
explain why. 
The dictionary definition of goods refers to items for sale, or possessions that can be 
moved. And the Sale of Goods Act and the Consumer Rights Act (albeit this Act only 
applies to consumer contracts which this isnt) refers to goods as moveable, personal 
items. Im satisfied a business isnt a moveable or personal item and the sale of one is a very 
different type of transaction to for example, the purchasing of goods from a trader. A 
business includes intangible items such as goodwill, an established customer base and 
reputation. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say the sale of a business doesnt fall 
within the definition of goods for the purpose of its policy wording.
Subject matter of the legal claim
F has since said the legal claim wasnt about the sale of the business and was instead about 
the sale of the business assets, and its provided an itemised list of fixtures and fittings. 
Ive looked at the evidence to see how F presented the claim to Aviva. Having looked at a 
call transcript when the claim was logged, I note that when asked what is the contract 
about?, F replied: sales contract  sale of business in terms of goodwill  there has since 
been discrepancies in sale. The inclusion of goodwill persuades me that the dispute was 
about the sale of the business, not just its assets. 
F has supplied a copy of the contract for sale agreement and says this shows the contract 
was for the sale of assets only, not the business. Having looked at the document in its 
entirety, Im not persuaded it shows this, and Ill explain why. 
The agreement is very much couched in terms of the sale of the business. Theres reference 
to how employees should be treated, the business transfer of undertakings and the goodwill 
value of the business. Given these clauses refer to how the business responsibilities should 
be carried out, I think it highly unlikely they would feature in a contract purely about the 
physical assets of the business. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded the contract was simply for the sale of assets and 
consider that they instead formed part of the sale of the business. As such Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for Aviva to decline Fs claim on the basis that the subject matter of the legal 
claim was ultimately about the sale of Fs business and therefore, not covered under the 
policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman