DRN-3777781
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down his business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened 
Mr R held a business insurance policy with RSA. In January 2021, he contacted RSA to 
make a claim for losses incurred after he was impacted as a result of the Governments 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr R made two separate claims, one for a period of 
lockdown from 23 March 2020 and the second claim for the period from November 2020 to 
December 2020 and then from January 2021 onwards. 
This decision deals only with the complaint about the first claim. I have addressed the 
complaint about the other claims in a separate decision. 
Mr R said that several customers he was in contact with had Covid-19 symptoms (in 
particular continuous coughs) and an employee was ill with Covid-19 symptoms (flu like 
symptoms, aching bones and muscles, fever, headache, stomach cramps, and a touch of 
diarrhoea) in February and March 2020. 
With regard to the first claim, RSA said the policy would provide cover for loss due to closure 
or restrictions of Mr Rs premises only if the notifiable human disease manifested itself at the 
premises. RSA said Mr Rs business had been impacted by the Governments imposed 
restrictions which is not covered, rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-
19, and turned down his claim. 
Mr R said one of his employees had been ill with Covid-19 symptoms in February 2020 and 
provided screenshots of telephone messages to support his. 
RSA reviewed the claim and said the evidence didnt establish a manifestation of a notifiable 
disease at the relevant time, as the employee was unwell before Covid-19 had been listed 
as a notifiable disease, which happened on 5 March 2020. It therefore maintained its refusal 
of the claim.  
Mr R complained and informed RSA that his employee still had symptoms when he returned 
to work on 27 February 2020 and beyond 5 March 2020. 
RSA issued its final response to the complaint and maintained its refusal of the claim, as it 
did not accept that Mr R had established a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises after 5 
March 2020. RSA also said that the Supreme Courts judgement on the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case, which looked at some business 
interruption insurance policies and how they should respond to claims related to Covid-19 
(but not Mr Rs policy wording) did not affect the outcome of Mr Rs claim or complaint.  
RSA did, however, apologise for a delay in dealing with the claim and offered Mr R £100 for 
this. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, He did not consider it should be upheld, as 
he was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it had. 
Mr R didnt accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions, in 
response to the Investigator and in the initial complaint. Ive considered them all but have 
summarised his main points below: 
Notifiable human disease is not defined in the policy and it does not state that a 
disease only becomes a notifiable disease when it is added to a list by a statutory 
instrument within the UK. 
This is a significant exclusion of cover, so should have been made clear in the policy. 
On 3 February 2020 people were told to call the NHS if they have symptoms of the 
virus having returned from China. This is therefore the date that Covid-19 became a 
notifiable disease. 
It is not fair to rely on the fact the UK Government was so slow to respond to the 
pandemic and make Covid-19 a notifiable disease in this country, to deny his claim. 
Other countries made it a notifiable disease a lot earlier. 
The Supreme Court stated the person must have displayed Covid-19 symptoms, not 
that they have to have had Covid-19. His employee displayed Covid-19 symptoms, 
so regardless of whether it was Covid-19 or not, the policy should respond to the 
claim. 
RSA did not present the wording in his policy as it was worried about the Supreme 
Court making a finding which would support the claim. 
RSA ignored his subject access requests. 
RSA accepted the symptoms manifested at my business premises prior to 5 March 
2020, so it is wrong for the Investigator to retrospectively diagnose him as not having 
Covid-19. It is unreasonable and biased to ignore his testimony on this. 
If the policy didnt cover Covid-19, there would have been no need for RSA to change 
the policy to exclude pandemics or Covid-19 later. 
In any case, the employee was in the shop with symptoms after the 5 March 2020. 
Mr R provided a letter from his employee which states he developed symptoms while 
at work on 23 February 2020: aching bones and muscles, fever, headache, stomach 
cramps. He says he improved and returned to work on 27 February 2020 but 
continued to feel unwell and developed a cough until mid-March 2020 but he 
managed to work through the symptoms. 
The Investigator ignored his complaint about the poor service provided by RSA, 
including making a mistake in a date in correspondence.  
Mr R says his business has suffered and he had to close his shop and made staff redundant, 
The whole process has been extremely stressful. He wants his claim paid and compensation 
for the time and stress involved. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. 
In the meantime, another Investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that the £100 
already offered by RSA was reasonable to reflect the issues raised about the way the claim 
was handled.
Mr R hasnt provided any further arguments about the service issues but told the Investigator 
that his employee also said he lost his sense of taste and smell when he was ill in February 
2020 but didnt mention this in the phone message at the time, as he only described the 
symptoms he thought were relevant to why he could not attend work and he did not think 
these symptoms were relevant at the time. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Rs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Notifiable disease
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Mr Rs policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business 
interruption caused by various events. I have considered the entire policy carefully to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr Rs claim. 
The main part of cover I think might be relevant to this claim is an extension to the business 
interruption section of cover that covers loss as a result of: 
Disease, Murder, Suicide, Vermin and Pests
Loss as a result of
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises. 
As Mr R has said, there is no definition of notifiable human disease in the policy. I have 
therefore considered what the ordinary meaning of this phrase. It seems to me that most 
people would understand this to mean any illnesses that are required to be reported to a 
public authority and would reasonably require diagnosis of the disease in question. 
RSA says Covid-19 only became a notifiable disease in England on 5 March 2020, so any 
manifestation of the disease at the premises would have to have been before his date. Mr R 
has made a number of submissions as to why it is unfair to limit claims to manifestations of 
Covid-19 at the premises after 5 March 2020.  I do not think I need to make a finding on this 
point, as I do not think Mr R has established there was a manifestation of Covid-19 at the 
premises either before or after 5 March 2020. 
Mr R says RSA has accepted hed proven his employee had Covid-19 (but said it was before 
5 March 2020) and it was wrong for the Investigator to have reopened this issue. 
RSA initially refused the claim on the basis that the employees symptoms were prior to 5 
March 2020. It said I appreciate your employee may have suffered with symptoms of Covid-
19 in February 2020. I do not think this means it was satisfied that he had proven it was 
more likely than not that the employee had Covid-19. RSA simply states he had symptoms 
of Covid-19, not that it accepted it was Covid-19.
Mr R complained to RSA and stated his employee had been at the premises after 5 March 
2020 still with symptoms (and that many customers who were also likely infected with Covid-
19 were also at the premises). 
RSA then issued its final response letter on the matter and said it did not accept that was 
evidence of a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises after 5 March 2020. RSA had not seen the letter from the employee dated 9 May 2022 then but I think this letter 
just confirms what Mr R had already told it  that his employee returned to work on 27 
February 2020 and continued to have symptoms until mid-March 2020. The only additional 
information is that he says he developed a cough but doesnt given any description of the 
cough or any other information. RSA already had information about the symptoms suffered 
and knew that the employee had returned to work at the premises when it sent its final 
response letter to Mr R. I do not agree therefore that RSA had accepted that the employee 
had Covid-19 at the relevant time. 
Mr R also says it is irrelevant whether the employee had Covid-19 or not, as the Supreme 
Court specifically made a ruling which states Covid-19 symptoms are sufficient to prove 
manifestation in the absence of a test. 
The policy terms require manifestation of a notifiable disease. The Supreme Court provided 
guidance on what the term manifestation means. It said there must be a diagnosis of or 
display of symptoms of the notifiable disease for it to amount to a manifestation.  This does 
not change in my opinion that they need to be symptoms that are more likely than not of a 
notifiable disease (in this case Covid-19) and not some other disease or illness that happens 
to have similar symptoms. 
Clearly it is impossible to be certain whether the employee had Covid-19 or not, as no test 
was done at the time but I have to consider what is more likely than not. 
Mr Rs employee had some symptoms which are seen in those with Covid-19 but could also 
be the result of a number of other unrelated illnesses. I note that most people with Covid-19 
symptoms at that time were not actually infected with Covid-19. 
Mr R has also recently said the employee had a loss of sense of taste and smell in 
February/March 2020. While the employee might not have realised the significance of such 
symptoms at the time of his phone messages to Mr R, this is the first time this has been 
mentioned. The employee provided a letter dated 9 May 2022 to confirm his symptoms and 
these symptoms were not mentioned then. I also note that Mr R told RSA that his employee 
does not believe he had the virus but Im not so sure. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that the evidence provided establishes that it is more likely than 
not that the employee had Covid-19 in February/March 2020. 
Mr R also questions how we can diagnose his employee on the basis of his reported 
symptoms after the event and questions our medical qualifications to do so. I do not have 
any medical qualifications and as far as I know, neither do any of my Ombudsman 
colleagues. We hold various qualifications and have experience relevant to our remit, which 
is to determine the fair and reasonable outcome of individual complaints about financial 
products; in this case the provision of insurance. Where there is a dispute about any issue, 
we look at the evidence provided by each party. In this case, I am required to determine 
whether RSA made a fair and reasonable decision finding that it was not more likely than not  
Mr Rs employee was infected with Covid-19 and for the reasons given, I do not think he is 
likely to have had Covid-19. 
Mr R has also said that Covid-19 was everywhere at the time and otherwise he would not 
have been required to close his shop, and that customers were bound to have had it while at 
the premises. However, no other evidence has been provided for anyone else having Covid-
19 at the premises. There were a few policies which would cover the closure of a business 
due to a notifiable disease in the vicinity of the business premises but the terms in this policy 
specifically require there to be a manifestation of the disease at the premises. The evidence 
provided to me is that Mr R closed as a result of the Government restrictions and not due to anyone at the premises having Covid-19. I do not therefore think it was unreasonable for the 
RSA to refuse the claim under this section of cover, as there is no evidence of there having 
been a manifestation of Covid-19 at Mr Rs premises.
Service provided by RSA and its handling of the claim and complaint 
Mr R is also unhappy with the way his claim and complaint was handled. He says emails  
were ignored and a subject access request was not progressed within the required time and 
it took longer than eight weeks to respond to his complaint. 
The way RSA handled Mr Rs complaint isnt something Im able to consider. The rules 
under which we operate set out the activities carried out by insurers that fall within our 
compulsory jurisdiction and complaint-handling isnt one of them.
We are also not the regulator and therefore cant penalise businesses for any failure to 
comply with regulations, such as the time to respond to a request for information. But we can 
consider what impact a delay or failure to comply with regulations has had on a consumer. 
I can see there was a delay in providing some information to Mr R and a delay of several 
weeks in RSA responding to Mr R in early 2021. Any delay would have been frustrating. 
Having considered everything, I think the £100 already offered by RSA for this is not 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman