DRN-3412207
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold 
Service account, that was sold to him in January 1998.
Mr B has given a number of reasons why he says the account was mis-sold. These include 
that Mr B was assured he needed the Gold account to obtain a loan and for the upkeep of 
his overdraft and he felt he couldnt refuse. Mr B says that he was not given any other 
options. Mr B says the salesperson was pushy and he wasnt told about the full cost and 
product implications. 
Mr B also says that the benefits have been nowhere near appropriate for him. For example 
he says he didnt have a car and took out travel insurance and mobile phone insurance 
through other providers.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Gold Service 
account had been mis-sold. Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also be helpful to explain that 
where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I have to decide what I think was most 
likely to have happened based on everything that is available. And having considered 
everything, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that the Gold Service account was likely to 
have been mis-sold.
Firstly, I note that the event Mr B has complained about took place around 24 years ago. 
And Im mindful when considering Mr Bs testimony, that recollections of what mayve been 
discussed at the time can fade or change over time. Nevertheless, I have considered Mr Bs 
recollections of events alongside all the other information that we do have, to determine 
whether I think the account was likely to have been mis-sold.
Mr B says that he was told he needed to agree to the Gold Service account in order to obtain 
a loan. However, there is no evidence to suggest that Mr B did apply for a loan in January 
1998, or indeed for a number of years after then either. And I think its likely that Mr B 
wouldve taken out a loan at the same time, or shortly after agreeing to the account  if that 
was the main reason why he agreed to it. 
Mr B has also said that he was told he needed the Gold Service account for the upkeep of 
his overdraft. Unsurprisingly, Lloyds has little evidence available from the time of the sale. 
However, I do know that at the time, the Gold Service account offered a £100 interest free 
overdraft facility and lower rates of interest on balances overdrawn by more than this amount 
 up to the agreed limit. Also, by having the account, the account holder would no longer be 
charged a £5 monthly overdraft usage fee if they remained within the £100 interest free 
portion of the overdraft. Given the apparent importance to Mr B at the time of having an 
overdraft, I think its just as likely that Mr B was told about the overdraft benefits provided by 
the account and he agreed to it because he was attracted to them, rather than because he 
thought he had no choice in the matter.   
So, having considered everything, Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest that Mr B was 
deprived of making a fair choice when he was sold the account. As such, I think its more 
likely that Mr B agreed to it knowing it was optional.
I understand the Gold Service account mayve been recommended to Mr B. This means that 
Lloyds was required to check that it was a reasonable fit for Mr Bs circumstances at the 
time. In 1998 I understand the Gold Service account cost £8 per month and provided 
worldwide travel insurance, card and purchase protection cover and extended warranty 
cover. It also included non-insurance benefits such as the overdraft benefits mentioned 
above, tiered interest on credit balances and commission free travel money, amongst other 
benefits.
Mr B says he didnt drive and took out mobile phone insurance through other providers. But 
as these werent benefits of the account at the time of sale, they arent relevant to whether 
the recommendation was suitable. The account did however provide worldwide travel cover. 
And I understand that Mr B did occasionally travel, so it seems he was potentially able to 
benefit from this feature of the account. So although Mr B said that he had cover elsewhere, 
it was up to him to cancel or not renew any existing cover he already had. I also think its 
likely that Mr B wouldve been able to benefit from the banking benefits that it provided, as 
mentioned above. 
I note that Mr B says that Lloyds shouldve sold him a cheaper account, such as a Platinum 
account. However, the Platinum account has always been a more expensive packaged 
account than the Gold Service account. It also didnt exist in 1998. I understand the only 
alternative packaged account that was available at the time that was cheaper, was a Select 
account. However, the main insurance benefit this provided was breakdown cover  which 
Mr B says he didnt need at the time. The overdraft benefit on the Select account was 
smaller as well. As such, based on Mr Bs circumstances in 1998, I think that Lloyds 
recommendation that Mr B upgrade to a Gold Service account was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances. And whilst I do acknowledge that Mr B may not have needed all of the 
benefits included with the account, this does not mean it was mis-sold, as it was sold as a 
package, so the account holder could not pick and choose what it came with. 
As well as making sure that the account was a reasonable fit for Mr Bs circumstances, 
Lloyds also had to provide Mr B with important information about the account and the 
associated benefits so he could decide whether it was worth agreeing to. Due to how long 
ago the sale was, its difficult for me to establish what exactly was explained to Mr B. For 
example, Mr B says the full cost of the account was not explained to him. But I cant rule out 
the possibility that it was and he has simply forgotten what was discussed during the sale. 
I do think its likely that the main benefits of the account wouldve been discussed with Mr B, 
after all Lloyds wouldve wanted to make the account seem attractive so that hed agree to it. 
But Ive not seen anything about Mr Bs circumstances at the time that makes me think he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even more 
information about it. For example, Mr B says that he was ineligible for many of the benefits. 
But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that suggests he was ineligible for the 
benefits when it was sold to him (or indeed since then).
I note that Mr B says that Lloyds changed the benefits many times over the years and 
essentially believes these changes have resulted in many of the benefits being useless. 
However, Lloyds is able to amend the terms and conditions of the account. Therefore, if Mr 
B felt that the account was no longer suitable for his benefits due to the changes made, I 
cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible if he chose to keep the account rather than change 
to another account or another bank. Afterall, many of the letters Lloyds sent to Mr B, especially the annual eligibility reminders sent in recent years, invited Mr B to contact Lloyds 
if he felt that it was no longer suitable for him.
As such, having considered everything, on balance, I am unable to conclude that the Gold 
Service account was mis-sold. From reading Mr Bs testimony, it seems, perhaps with the 
benefit of hindsight, Mr B now feels that the account has been poor value for money over the 
years and he now regrets agreeing to it. But that in itself doesnt mean that it was mis-sold or 
that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to him when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Gold Service account was mis-
sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman