DRN-3308115
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile (Co-op) hasnt refunded 
money she lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Miss M has explained that in 2018 and 2019 she made payments from her Co-op account to 
fund what she thought was a legitimate investment with a merchant I shall in this decision 
call K. 
The relevant payments from Miss Ms Co-op account are as follows. They were push 
payments, apart from the first which was made by debit card. 
Payment 
number Date DescriptionAmount 
(£)NSTF 
(£) Total (£)
1 02/11/2018 INSIGHTSTRADER 246.52 6.77 253.29
2 16/05/2019 AURA FINANCE SOLUTIONS 5,193.86  5,193.86
3 22/05/2019 AURA FINANCE SOLUTIONS 8,294.63  8,294.63
4 26/06/2019 CB PAYMENTS, LTD 2,500  2,500
5 27/06/2019 AURA FINANCE SOLUTIONS 7,781.65  7,781.65
Total 24,016.66 6.77 24,023.43
Miss M got in touch with Co-op in August 2019 to report shed been scammed. Ultimately, 
whilst Co-op was able to refund Miss Ms first payment (the £246.52), it didnt otherwise 
reimburse her. Remaining unhappy, Miss M referred her complaint about Co-op to this 
service. As our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
I emailed Miss M in January 2023 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold her complaint. 
Now that Ive very carefully considered Miss Ms response, Im ready to explain my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has made detailed submissions. Ive read and considered everything shes sent in, 
but I wont necessarily be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. It 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im sorry Miss M lost money to a scam. Losing money like this doesnt automatically
entitle her to a refund from Co-op. It would only be fair for me to tell Co-op to reimburse 
Miss M if I thought it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments, or if it unreasonably 
hindered recovery of the funds. 
Prevention
Its common ground Miss M authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Co-op to make the payments. So although Miss M didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of her account, she is presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. 
That said, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
With this in mind  the balance that needs to be struck  Im not persuaded Miss Ms 
payments here were sufficiently unusual or suspicious for me to reasonably say Co-op ought 
to have been obliged to have spoken to Miss M before allowing the payments through 
(which, in my opinion, would have been the only possible way Miss Ms loss of the funds to 
the scam could potentially have been reasonably prevented by Co-op). 
I take on board Miss Ms submissions on this. But the prior activity of her account with Co-op 
is an important consideration in deciding whether the scam payments were sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the account such that Co-op ought reasonably to have 
paused any of them, pending further enquiries, before allowing them through. And I can see 
from the account activity prior to the scam payments, that Miss M made payments totalling 
£44,300 in July and August 2018 to UK building societies (made in tranches of £10,000, 
another £10,000 three days later, a further £9,300 a further four days later, and a further 
£15,000 a further 13 days later). And after scam payment three (but before scam payment 
four), Miss M made further payments totalling £25,000 to a UK investment business. These 
were payments to legitimate FCA regulated businesses, which Miss M does not dispute the 
legitimacy of. And to be clear, they dont automatically mean Miss Ms complaint should fail. 
But they are relevant in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ill now address each payment in turn and why Im not persuaded I can say Co-op ought to 
have been obliged to call Miss M before allowing these payments through.
The first payment
I understand ultimately Miss M was refunded this payment. But for completeness, in terms of 
prevention, given its size and general nature, Im not persuaded there would have been 
anything sufficiently suspicious about this transaction for Co-op to have been obliged to 
block the payment pending enquiries with Miss M before letting it through.The second payment
This was for a larger amount (£5,193.86). But it wasnt large compared to some of Miss Ms 
previous payments from her account (as Ive explained above). And whilst it was headed 
overseas to a new payee (and I agree this reasonably ought to factor into whether the 
payment was sufficiently suspicious to warrant intervention), people generally do make 
payments to new payees from time to time, which may or may not from time to time be 
international. So, whilst I acknowledge these points, Im not persuaded I can reasonably say 
Co-op ought to have been obliged to have intervened  bearing in mind the size of the 
payment, the history of the account, and the general balance Ive explained needs to be 
struck. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken on board what Miss M has said about interaction she 
says she had with Co-op three or fourth months earlier (in January and February 2019, after 
her first payment, but before this second payment). Particularly, shes said she tried to make 
a number of debit card payments to fund her investment with K that didnt go through, which 
resulted in conversations with Co-op over the phone. And that ultimately this winded up in 
February 2019 with her explaining to Co-op she was trying to fund a crypto trading account 
with K; and Co-op warning her to be very, very wary of crypto investments as many were 
potentially open to fraud, so she should only proceed with caution. Miss M has said she 
thinks Co-op ought to have noted this at the time. And then, when the FCA published a 
warning about K in March 2019, Co-op ought to have been able to link this to her account, 
and consequently monitor her account and payment instructions more closely  ultimately to 
have prevented payments two to five. 
Id like to reassure Miss M that Ive thought about this carefully. The FCA published a 
warning about K in March 2019. And its not unreasonable in my view to expect a bank like 
Co-op to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of 
an alert like this being posted by the FCA. So if this payment instruction (payment two) or 
indeed any of the subsequent payments had been directed to K as the payee/recipient, I 
would reasonably expect Co-op to have automatically blocked the payment, pending 
enquiries with Miss M, to protect her against the possibility of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. However, in this case, the payment wasnt directed to K. There was nothing about 
the payment instruction from which Co-op could have known the payment was for K. So I 
dont think the fact this payment wasnt automatically blocked by Co-op pending enquiries 
with Miss M means that it did anything wrong.
Ive considered Miss Ms submissions about the possibility of Co-op linking the FCA warning 
back to her account (given her earlier conversations with it), and implementing heightened 
monitoring of her account. But I need to be realistic and fair and reasonable about what I 
could reasonably expect Co-op to have been obliged to have done here. According to 
Miss Ms own submissions, Co-op did warn her over the phone about scams like this 
generally in January or February 2019. Ultimately those earlier payments werent proceeded 
with from Miss Ms Co-op account. And I think it would be going too far in this case, and not 
being fair and reasonable, if I were to conclude that Co-op ought to then have been obliged, 
nonetheless, to have retrospectively linked the FCAs March 2019 warning back to payments 
Miss M ended up not making (from her Co-op account) in January/February 2019, or to have 
consequently applied extra monitoring to her account when Miss M hadnt raised any 
subsequent concerns to Co-op to put it on further alert.
So these points dont change my mind  neither regarding payment two, nor indeed 
payments three to five. Im satisfied Co-op didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent payment two for the reasons Ive explained. The third payment
This was for a larger amount still (£8,294.63), six days after payment two, to the same payee 
overseas. Its not uncommon for victims of scams to send multiple payments to scammers 
over a period of time. So I dont think it would have been reasonable for Co-op to have 
automatically assumed that Miss M wasnt at risk of financial harm from fraud and scams just 
because she was paying the same payee as six days previously. At the same time, though, 
its not uncommon for customers to pay legitimate payees in this way also. 
So again, whilst through payments two and three Miss M had now paid the scammers over 
£13,000 in six days, Im not persuaded this ought to have particularly stood out to Co-op. In 
July 2018 Miss M sent payments totalling £29,300 in seven days. So I can understand how 
Co-op could reasonably have viewed things still as not being sufficiently uncharacteristic for 
the account to warrant intervention, bearing in mind the balance I have mentioned that 
needs to be struck. 
The fourth payment
This was for £2,500 to CB Payments, to fund what I understand was a legitimate crypto 
account with Coinbase. I understand Miss M has recouped this money and so hasnt 
suffered a loss in relation to this payment. For completeness, Ive still considered whether 
this payment instruction ought to have drawn Co-ops attention. I understand it would have 
appeared effectively as to a new payee again (aside from the £2 payment mentioned below). 
And as Ive explained, people generally do make payments to new payees from time to time, 
so I dont think this was enough on its own to warrant intervention from Co-op; and whilst the 
payment was to a crypto exchange, not all payments made for cryptocurrency are made as a 
result of a scam. So, given these factors, and given the size of the payment (and comparing 
it to previous account activity), again, I dont think it would be fair to say Co-op ought to have 
been reasonably obliged to have spoken to Miss M about the payment instruction before 
allowing it through.
In her most recent submissions, Miss M has referenced a further payment to CB Payments, 
which she made on 24 May 2019 for £2 to set up the Coinbase account, but for the same 
reasons Im not persuaded Co-op should reasonably be held responsible for this. 
The fifth payment
This payment of £7,781.65 was for less than payment three, and over a month afterwards, to 
the same payee as payment three. Miss M had by now, including this payment, instructed 
payments to Aura Finance Solutions totalling over £21,000. But for the reasons Ive already 
mentioned, I dont think this would have looked particularly unusual for Miss Ms account  
she had sent £29,300 over the space of just seven days to building societies in July 2018. 
And these payments totalling over £21,000 to Aura Finance Solutions were spread out over 
around six weeks. Miss M had also by now made further payments to another legitimate 
investment institution (on 12 June 2019) totalling £25,000. So, notwithstanding the fact the 
payments to Aura Finance Solutions were international, I dont think its unfair to say at this 
point (and bearing in mind through no fault of Miss Ms or Co-ops, Co-op had not yet heard 
anything from Miss M to indicate she had any issues with any of the payments), the 
payments would probably have looked to Co-op to be in line with what it might expect given 
previous account activity.
Miss M has asked why a subsequent payment of hers to a roofing business in July 2019 did 
trigger Co-ops systems (but the scam payments didnt). Shes reiterated this in her most 
recent submissions, and said she thinks this shows Co-op was negligent because it was 
looking out for invoice diversion scams but not crypto investment scams which were equally prevalent at the time. However, its for financial organisations to set their own criteria for 
what characteristics trigger a security alert, and its often a complex algorithm. Here, the 
simple and most important factor is that Im satisfied that the scam payments, taken 
individually or collectively, werent sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for Miss Ms 
account for me to say Co-op reasonably ought to have been obliged to intervene in them. Im 
therefore not persuaded Co-op unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments 
in this case. 
Recovery
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Co-op 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds (or some of them) and that this caused Miss M 
loss.
I understand Miss M recouped payments one and four already (and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Co-op to have been able to recoup the further £2 payment Miss M has 
mentioned she made to set up the Coinbase account). So I only need consider this in 
relation to payments two, three and five. As these were international push payments, the 
only potential avenue for recovery of the funds was through Co-ops reasonable endeavours, 
upon Miss M notifying it shed been scammed, to recover these payments from the overseas 
beneficiary bank. Then, given the beneficiary bank was overseas, there wouldnt be any 
guarantee the beneficiary bank would fully co-operate or permit recovery. And sadly it seems 
to be common in cases like this for the scammers to drain the beneficiary account quickly 
after theyve received the money presumably to frustrate recovery attempts. Bearing in mind 
the delay between Miss Ms payments and her being able to notify Co-op shed been 
scammed, Im not surprised Co-op was unfortunately unable to recover the funds. So I dont 
think I can reasonably say Co-op unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds or caused 
Miss M loss in this regard.
I realise this means Miss M is out of pocket. And Im really sorry she lost this money. But I 
think this was ultimately caused by the scammers here, and not Co-op. I cant reasonably 
ask Co-op to reimburse Miss M where I dont think it did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman