DRN-1655586
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham and Gloucester plc, 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in relation to a mortgage. For 
ease Ill refer to the business as Lloyds for the majority of the rest of this decision.  
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in 2000. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Whilst the mortgage was in joint names the PPI covered Mr A 
alone for accident and sickness and unemployment. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case. Where there is missing or 
insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of 
probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, 
and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs A aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
they chose to take it. 
I say that because Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of the mortgage application form. 
To get the PPI, Mr and Mrs A had to tick for it on the mortgage application form. I have noted 
that when the form asked if Mr and Mrs A wanted PPI, they ticked a Yes box. Had Mr and 
Mrs A not wanted to take the PPI for Mr and Mrs A they could have ticked the No box. And 
because there was a No box, Mr and Mrs A ought to have understood this was something 
they could say No to. There is no language in the documentation that states or implies that 
they had to take the cover to get the mortgage. 
So, having considered all the submissions made to us in this case, and having listened to 
what both sides have said, on balance I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A did agree to 
take the cover and did so knowing they had a choice about it.
Mr and Mrs A told us that they felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents their best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs A 
only took the policy because they were put under pressure to do so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. For example Mr A was eligible for the policy. Based on what Mrs 
A told us, she wasnt eligible for the policy and they have described Mr A as the main 
breadwinner. So it seems suitable that the cover was selected for Mr A. And Mr A was not 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had 
a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs A told us that whilst Mr A had good sick pay initially, it 
dropped significantly after six months. And Mr and Mrs A told us they had no other means 
they could have relied on such that they might have had to rely on their family to help make 
their mortgage repayments. 
However, upon a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay that Mr A told us about, and would have 
reduced their reliance on whatever help their family may have been in a position to offer 
them at such a time. So, thinking about all of this and the potentially serious consequences 
of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mr and Mrs A could have found the 
policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs A.
 As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs A, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better 
information wouldve made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think 
Mr and Mrs A have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman