DRN-3621140
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the assistance Studio Retail Limited provided when he attempted to 
log into his online account. Hes also unhappy that his credit limit increased, and he was 
charged interest.
What happened
Mr R opened a revolving credit account with Studio. In early 2020 he ordered some items, 
which he then cancelled. And he had trouble logging into his account online to check his bill 
and what he was being charged for. Hes also said that he moved address three times, 
which caused difficulties trying to reset the passwords, especially because temporary 
passwords were sent to an old address.
Mr R has also said that Studio upped his credit limit, so they could add interest to the money 
they say he owed. He complained to Studio about this in July 2021. They explained that 
theyd provided him with a temporary password, to allow him to access his account online. 
They also explained that his credit limit had varied over time, but his account had been 
passed to a debt collection agency due to the lack of contact from him. Mr R wasnt happy 
with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the terms of Mr Rs account allowed them to vary the credit limit, 
based on factors such as his credit score and payment history, and their lending criteria. And 
the terms also allowed Studio to charge interest on any unpaid balances. So, the investigator 
didnt think Studio had done anything wrong by doing this.
The investigator also said that Studios contact notes only show that Mr R contacted them 
once about changing his address, and that when he told them he was having difficulties 
accessing his account online, they provided him with a temporary password. So, she thought 
Studio had helped Mr R when he contacted them. And she didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Studio never gave him a temporary 
password and deliberately lock me out of the account to add interest. Hes also said that he 
made loads of calls about it they have deliberately put me into debt.
Mr R also said I still dont know if Im being charged for the thing I cancelled witch is why I 
didnt pay no body could tell me and due to them not being able to sesolve the issue I asked 
them to pass it to debt collection [sic]. And he doesnt think its fair that hes now being 
asked to pay £100 due to Studios mistake.
Because he didnt agree with the investigator, Mr R asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Before I address the complaint that Mr R has raised, Ive noted that he disputes Studios 
version of some of the events. I can confirm that Ive taken these concerns into account.  
However, having reviewed the evidence in this matter very carefully, including Studios 
system notes, Ive seen nothing to show me the notes are incorrect, or that they werent 
made at the time. For that reason, I consider that its reasonable to rely on them.
account access
While I appreciate that Mr R says that he contacted Studio on a number of occasions, 
because he was locked out of his account, I havent seen anything to show me that that was 
the case. Studios case notes show that he first contacted them on 1 July 2020, to let them 
know he couldnt access his account. He also advised them that he hadnt been receiving his 
statements.
During this call, Mr R also raised the issue of interest charges on his account, as well as late 
payment fees. Ive seen that Studio offered to remove the fees as a gesture of goodwill, if Mr 
R made a missing payment. But he refused to do so, saying he thought Studio were trying 
to blackmail him, and that he wouldnt make a payment until the charges were removed.
Following this call, Studio sent Mr R a temporary password in the post, so he could reset his 
online access to his account.
Mr R called Studio again the following day, to say he wasnt able to speak to their collection 
department as hed failed security  the address he gave didnt match their systems. 
However, in this call he agreed to pay the outstanding amount and Studio waived the late 
payment charges.
As part of our investigation into this matter, Mr R has provided us with five different 
addresses hes lived at during the time he had the account with Studio.
From what Ive seen, its clear to me that Mr R had moved address and hadnt updated 
Studio with the new one. Which is why he wasnt receiving statements and why hed failed 
security when trying to speak to collections. And this would explain why the temporary 
password Studio sent him on 1 July 2020 wasnt received.
Its not clear if Mr R updated his address with Studio when he spoke to them on 2 July 2020, 
but I think its more likely than not that he did. I say this because theres nothing to show me 
that he complained about not receiving statements after this date. And after telling Studio 
that he failed security due to an address issue, they wouldve been likely to check his current 
address and update it if necessary.
However, on the call of 2 July 2020, Mr R didnt mention the system access issue he was 
having, so the representative he was speaking to wouldnt have known that the temporary 
password thatd been sent the day before wouldve gone to the wrong address. And wouldnt 
have known to request a new one to the new address. And I havent seen anything to show 
that Mr R contacted Studio about having a temporary password at any point after this call.Because of the above, I dont think that Studio have done anything wrong. And I cant agree 
with Mr R that they deliberately stopped him accessing his account online just so they could 
charge him more interest and fees.
credit limit
With regards to the credit limit on Mr Rs account, Ive seen that Studios terms say:
Well choose a suitable credit limit for you when we open your account. Well tell you 
it on statements and other communications we send you. We base your initial credit 
limit on your personal circumstances and publicly available data from credit-reference 
agencies  
We regularly review your credit limit to make sure its still right for you and your 
circumstances. We use internal data (which shows how you have been managing 
your account) and data from credit-reference agencies. If we think you are at risk of 
financial difficulties, we may not be able to offer you a credit-limit increase even if you 
have requested one.
Credit-limit increases: If youve opted in to credit-limit increase offers, well let you 
know if one is available to you. Well normally give you at least 28 days notice of the 
proposed increase. You have the option of refusing the increase if you wish. If you 
request a credit-limit increase or agree to us applying a credit-limit increase earlier, 
we may apply it before the 28-day period ends. You can refuse any credit-limit 
increases or tell us not to offer them in the future. If you tell us you dont want a 
credit-limit increase, we wont increase it. You can change your preference at any 
time. Well only offer you a credit-limit increase if we think you can afford it. But 
please consider if it will suit your needs and if you can keep up your payments in the 
future.
Credit-limit decreases: We may reduce your credit limit if our review indicates you 
may struggle to repay it or if your circumstances have changed.
When Mr R opened the account, he was provided with a credit limit of £220. Studios case 
notes show that, on 18 September 2019, he was offered an increase in his credit limit to 
£350, which he accepted. This was further increased to £450 in January 2020. And, given 
the terms and what had happened previously, Im satisfied it was more likely than not that Mr 
R was also offered, and accepted, this increase. Ive not seen anything to show that Mr R 
objected to either of these credit limit increases at the time.
Finally, Studio reduced the credit limit to £350 in January 2021. They say they did this 
because of the arrears on the account, and because they hadnt received any payments 
from Mr R since October 2020. Studios case notes show that, on 26 January 2021, Mr R 
called them to complain about the reduction in the credit limit, as he hadnt authorised this.
Given this, Im satisfied that Studio acted reasonably with the changes to Mr Rs credit limit, 
as their terms allowed them to make these changes. And I cant agree that they only 
increased his credit limit so as to charge more interest. 
Interest charged
Studios terms confirm that:We calculate the interest daily using the account balance, once we have processed 
all transactions for that day. We then add the total of the daily interest charges to the 
account balance on your statement date. Interest is compounded, which means we 
charge interest on interest. We dont compound interest on default charges.
If you pay off your full balance by the payment due date, we wont charge interest on 
purchases made during your current statement period. But if you choose not to do 
so, well charge interest from the date we added the goods or services (or both) to 
your account until the date you pay off your balance.
Mr R has said that he wasnt aware if he was being charged for an item hed cancelled with 
Studio. And, because he had no means to check what he was being charged for, he stopped 
making payments in October 2020. Which resulted in interest continuing to be charged on 
the outstanding balance, and the outstanding debt of £344.57 being passed to a debt 
collection agency in August 2021.
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Studio didnt deliberately lock Mr R out of his 
online account. But this wasnt the only way he couldve checked what he was being 
charged for  this couldve been done by phoning or emailing Studio, or by checking his 
statements. And, for the reasons already given, Im satisfied that Mr R was most likely 
receiving statements from July 2020 onwards (after hed changed his address with Studio).
However, as Mr R had an outstanding balance, and even though theyd waived the late 
payment fees in July 2020, Studio were entitled to charge interest. Whats more, if it had 
later been discovered that Mr R was being charged for an item incorrectly (and I dont know 
if that was the case), then his account couldve been corrected and any refunds due 
provided. As such, Im satisfied that Studio didnt do anything wrong by charging Mr R 
interest on his account. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above dont I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Studio Retail 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman