DRN-3807616
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice he received from an appointed 
representative of Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta (Attanta) to 
transfer a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) into a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr R is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Any references to 
Mr R will include submissions by the CMC.
What happened
Mr R signed a client agreement with Harrison Charles Wealth Management Limited, an 
appointed representative of Attanta, on 18 November 2016. The fact find completed at the 
time of the advice showed that Mr R was 50 years old; he was employed earning £20,909 
per year; he held shares valued at around £20,000; he had an emergency fund of £1,500 
and; in addition to his PPP, he was a member of his employers defined contribution 
workplace pension making monthly contributions of £9.85.
Mr R said he wanted to retire at age 70. In terms of his objectives, he confirmed he wanted 
to maximise his pension death benefits and he wanted to move his PPP to a more flexible 
arrangement which would help shield him from the volatilities of the stock market. Mr R 
confirmed, in his own words, that he had a conservative attitude towards investment risk.
On 5 January 2017 Mr Rs PPP provider confirmed the current value of his pension was 
£45,987. On 13 January a further quote from the PPP provider confirmed the fund value was 
now just over £46,000. Mr R was provided with illustrations from his provider showing the 
potential pension fund at ages starting at 60 and going up to 67.
On 16 January 2017 a Key Features Document (KFD) was provided by the SIPP provider in 
respect of the transfer and showed that at a potential retirement age of 70, based on the 
mid-rate of return after price inflation, there would be a growth rate of 2.4% per year. This 
also showed that the residual fund could be less than the actual transfer value.
On the same day (16 January) a Replacement Analysis (RA) form indicated the initial 
adviser fee for the transfer would be 3% (£1,379) with a 1% annual fee also being deducted 
(£459). The RA form also said that whilst the initial and ongoing adviser charges would 
increase overall costs, Mr R wanted the benefits of having an ongoing service.
On 16 February 2017, Mr R signed the SIPP Application form, nominating his brother and 
sister as beneficiaries. On 1 March the SIPP commenced. A suitability report (the report) 
was issued on 7 March. The report confirmed several of the key drivers behind Mr Rs wish 
to transfer from his PPP which included to have more flexibility and control over his pension 
funds. And to have his pension fund managed by an investment professional.
The report recommended a transfer into a Assets: Balanced Portfolio. However, after the 
transfer of the PPP funds to the SIPP on 23 March 2017, totalling £46,684, Mr Rs monies 
were invested in a Conservative Portfolio. No breakdown of what types of investments were 
included in this portfolio, has been received by this service.
Mr R complained about the transfer saying the recommendations made by Attanta were not 
suitable for him. He said he has made a loss of around £7,891 as a result of its advice. But 
Attanta said, amongst other things, the DFM was responsible for Mr Rs losses.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. In summary, he took the following 
matters into account when reaching his conclusions:
The high initial/ annual fees and the lack of consideration of lower charged options.
The high reduction-in-yield percentage.
Industry standard projections indicated there would be a risk the transferred funds 
wouldnt grow enough to meet the initial transfer value after nineteen years.
Attanta disagreed with the investigators view, reiterating the point about the DFM being 
responsible for Mr Rs losses. It said its involvement was too remote to be responsible for 
any losses Mr R suffered from being in the SIPP which was managed by the DFM. A 
subsequent view was issued which made the recommendation about the redress which said 
that it should use the benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index.
The investigator also addressed Attantas point about the DFM being responsible for Mr Rs 
losses. Our investigator said that the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority previously 
the Financial Services Authority) issued a pension related industry alert to firms in 2014 
(following an earlier alert in 2013) which he considered relevant to this aspect. The alert 
included the following statement:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
Our investigator said the effect of the above, is that Attanta is responsible for the switch and 
SIPP it recommended and for the underlying use of the SIPP. He noted that whilst Attanta 
didnt recommend the underlying investments  the DFM did  it recommended the use of 
the DFM firms portfolio/service. And this recommendation extended to how the SIPP should 
be used and, based on the regulators view quoted above, our investigator considered 
Attanta held (and holds) responsibility for the suitability of the DFM service. 
Attanta disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. Attanta said it hadnt received the 
original complaint from Mr R but our investigator sent evidence of our service contacting it in 
2020 to let it know about the complaint. Further, Attanta did provide answers to Mr Rs 
complaint. The main issue in dispute following the investigators view was the issue of 
redress. It did not think the proposed FTSE UK Private Investors Income was an appropriate 
benchmark as it was much higher risk than the legacy portfolio and risk profile of Mr R. 
Further, the other issue was that Attanta didnt think it should be held responsible for the 
actions of the DFM.
So, the matter has been passed back to me to re-consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, the only matter Attanta has raised since the issue of the provisional 
decision is about not seeing the original complaint. But this position doesnt seem plausible 
given it has answered the complaint made by Mr R. Further, our investigator has sent 
evidence to Attanta showing our service sent it the complaint that was made in 2019. The 
investigator sent evidence of our service contacting Attanta to say a complaint about the 
mis-sale of the pension had been made saying: Please get in touch with [Mr R] to confirm 
that youre looking into his complaint. This was sent on 9 September 2020. 
Since the end of 2020, Attanta has sent its business file to our service. And also has had two 
views from our investigators which it has responded to. So, on balance, Im satisfied it has 
received Mr Rs complaint and has had ample opportunity to answer it and provide evidence 
to support its case. The reason for my provisional decision was to deal with the redress 
which hadnt been properly addressed in either investigators view. Again, as my provisional 
decision was issued on 24 August 2022, Attanta has had ample opportunity to provide 
further evidence to support its case if it disagreed with Mr Rs complaint.
Given Attanta hasnt added anything more than it did previously in response to the 
investigators view, my provisional decision including the redress remains the same. So, as 
set out in my provisional decision my final decision is as follows:
Attanta has now had a chance to comment on the redress which Ive fully taken into account. 
It has reiterated its view that the DFM is responsible for Mr Rs losses and it (Attanta) 
shouldnt be held responsible. It says its recommendations are too remote from the loss. It 
also disagrees with the recommended redress. It says the benchmark recommended to use 
for the calculations was an inappropriate benchmark as it is much higher risk than Mr Rs 
portfolio.
Whilst Ive taken into account Attantas comments I think the matter should be upheld. But I 
agree the redress needs to be amended. Before I begin my reasoning, its worth reflecting 
on the regulatory framework that applies to a pension switch.
The regulators handbook contains eleven Principles for Businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to. These include Principle 2, which requires a 
firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. And Principle 6, which requires 
a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers. So, the Principles are relevant and 
form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the relevant time. They must always be 
complied with by regulated firms like Attanta.
Further, COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in 
assessing the suitability of investments. They are the same things that I look at when 
reaching a decision about whether the advice was suitable. In summary, the business must 
obtain the necessary information regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in 
the investment field relevant to the advice; their financial situation; and their investment 
objectives.
Of particular relevance in this case, is the regulators pension switching checklist published 
in 2009. It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges  has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits  has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk  has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management  has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In light of these regulatory requirements, I dont think the switch recommended to Mr Rs was 
in his best interests. I dont think Attanta met the regulatory requirements placed on it in this 
case. Some of Attantas failings are as follows:
Charges - as outlined in the suitability report, the PPP was relatively low cost. In 
contrast, the fund switch involved significant charges, including the initial advice fee 
an ongoing advice fee and a DFM fee. I havent seen a telling case made as to why 
these increased costs were in Mr Rs best interest particularly when the objectives 
such as protecting against volatility, seems to have been met by his PPP which was 
invested in cautious funds.
Existing benefits  Another reason given for the switch was so Mr R could obtain 
better death benefits. But it was Mr Rs financial well-being that should have been the 
priority. So, even if better death benefits were achievable through the transfer, I dont 
consider this presented a strong enough reason to risk the long term impact of higher 
fees on funds that were intended to support Mr R in his retirement.
Risk  
oMr Rs attitude to risk was recorded as conservative. I accept he was 
invested in a managed fund with the PPP provider, so he was prepared to 
take some risks. But that risk level seemed adequately met with the PPP 
funds he was already invested in which matched his conservative attitude to 
risk. The initial recommendation was that Mr R invest in a portfolio with, what 
seemed to meet a slightly higher risk profile. However, when the transfer 
proceeded, he was switched into a conservative fund.
oBut whilst Mr Rs initial portfolio may have been suitable for him, given the 
increased costs, there seemed no justifiable reason to incur these greater 
costs without some persuasive reason to do so given the impact of the higher 
fees on a cautious fund.
oMr R was warned about the risks he was taking. For example, the suitability 
report says: We have thoroughly discussed your requirements and the 
additional risks you would invariably be taking on by transferring your pension 
benefits away from the scheme. However, as Attanta will be aware risk 
warnings, do not render unsuitable advice, suitable.
Ongoing fund management  its unclear why Mr R needed to be invested with a 
DFM arrangement or pay for ongoing adviser fees. He didnt have a substantial 
pension fund, so the additional charges couldve outweighed any potential improved 
performance. DFM fees and ongoing advice fees were charged, adding an additional 
layer of costs. Attantas proposal was over engineered and expensive. And as our 
investigator said, even with a higher growth illustration for the SIPP fund as against 
the PPP illustrations with its lower fees, Mr R could have been worse off in retirement 
even if the growth rate of the SIPP funds had been higher than the PPP over the similar period. This seems to be largely down to the impact of the additional costs.
In addition to these points, as our investigator noted, the regulator made it clear that it wasnt 
just the vehicle that needed to be considered when recommending a transfer. In this case, 
Attanta also recommended a DFM service within Mr Rs assessed attitude to risk. Whilst I 
think the new portfolio contained in the SIPP broadly fell within his attitude to risk, I think the 
extra costs didnt justify the recommendation to transfer. I think Attanta shouldve 
recommended Mr R remain with his PPP. And I consider if it had done so, Mr R wouldve 
accepted such advice  its rare for a customer to seek professional input and then act 
against this.
Finally, in terms of what Attanta has said about the DFM being at fault, what Im considering 
here is whether the advice Mr R was provided with was suitable and if it was not, what 
redress is suitable to put him back into the position he would have been but for the advice he 
was given. I dont think Attanta can pass on its responsibilities to another regulated firm. It 
was tasked with providing suitable advice. This is contained in the regulators handbook, 
some of which Ive set out above. And if it has failed in its requirement, it will need to be held 
responsible for any losses that has occurred as a result of that unsuitable advice.
I dont accept Attanta reasoning that the losses are too remote as it was the DFM who chose 
the funds to invest in. It was Attantas advice that led to Mr R switching his pension to a SIPP 
and it was this matter which ultimately led to the losses he says he suffered. If he, as I think 
he should have done, had been recommended to stay in his PPP for the reasons Ive set out 
above, it follows he would not have suffered any losses.
So, for all these reasons Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I take the view that Mr R would 
have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain that a value will be 
obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr R's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta 
must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta should add interest as set 
out below:
If there is a loss, Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta should 
pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta is unable to pay the 
total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr R wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Neovision Wealth Management 
Limited trading as Attanta deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr R 
how much has been taken off. Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as 
Attanta should give Mr R a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Curtis 
Bank 
SIPPStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 days of 
the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr R's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta should request that the 
previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Curtis Bank SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal from the Curtis Bank SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Neovision Wealth 
Management Limited trading as Attanta will need to determine a fair value for Mr R's 
investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. This is a different redress benchmark recommended by our investigator in his last view. In 
my view, this better reflects Mr Rs attitude to risk. So, I think this benchmark, if the notional 
value from the previous provider cannot be obtained, should be used. Further reasons for 
this are set out below.
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, 
which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading 
as Attanta should pay the amount calculated as set out above under Putting things right.
Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Attanta should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman