DRN-2886785
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when 
it increased her credit limit. 
What happened
Mrs M had a credit card with Barclaycard with a credit limit of £9,400. In March 2015 
Barclaycard says it looked at Mrs Ms account history and credit file and took the decision to 
increase the credit limit on her credit card. The new credit limit was £11,900. 
In the years that followed, the credit limit was reduced to £4,850.
Last year, Mrs M complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card and later increased the credit limit. Barclaycard didnt agree and her complaint 
wasnt upheld. Mrs M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. 
The investigator said the rules our service operates under meant we could only consider the 
credit limit increase in March 2015. The investigator explained that the initial decisions to 
approve the credit card and increase the credit limit were taken too long ago and outside the 
time limits set out in our rules. The investigator didnt agree Barclaycard had lent 
irresponsibly when it increased Mrs Ms credit limit in March 2015 and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, we can only consider certain complaints that are referred to us. 
In this case, Mrs Ms complaint relates, in part to issues that occurred more than six years 
before she complained to Barclaycard. Our investigator has explained to Mrs Ms 
representative why we cant look at those issues. The representative confirmed they 
understood the investigators findings would only relate to the final credit limit increase, in 
March 2015. 
Before a business decides to lend or increase a credit limit it should complete proportionate 
checks to ensure the borrowing is affordable and sustainable for the customer. Theres no 
set list of checks a lender has to complete. In this case, Barclaycard has confirmed it took 
information Mrs M provided in her original application into account along with how she had 
managed her credit card and information found on her credit file before taking the decision to 
proceed. Ive looked at the information Barclaycard took into account. 
Mrs Ms application to Barclaycard in 2014 said she was employed and earned £30,000. 
Barclaycard said it took this into account, and looked at how Mrs M had managed her credit 
card since it was opened. Barclaycard said Mrs M had maintained the payments due and 
that her account activity didnt show signs she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard has provided evidence from its affordability check and it shows the credit limit 
increase was in line with the lending criteria in place. 
Ive considered the information available in this case and I appreciate Mrs M feels 
Barclaycard lent irresponsibly. But I havent found any information that wouldve indicated 
the credit limit increase in March 2015 was unaffordable for Mrs M. Barclaycard took 
information Mrs M provided about her personal and financial circumstances in the original 
application into account. Barclaycard also obtained a detailed picture of Mrs Ms other credit 
by looking at her credit file. Im satisfied Barclaycard then applied its lending criteria and 
found the new credit limit was sustainable for Mrs M. 
Im satisfied Barclaycard did complete proportionate checks before taking the decision to 
increase Mrs Ms credit limit and havent found it lent irresponsibly. As Im satisfied 
Barclaycard dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman