DRN-2955977
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that First Response Finance Ltd was irresponsible to have agreed 
car finance for her in February 2016. Mrs L also says she paid too much interest on the 
credit.
What happened
First Response agreed a hire-purchase agreement for Mrs L in February 2016 order for 
her to acquire a car. Under the agreement First Response would own the car until Mrs L 
had made all her repayments. In the meantime, until the finance was repaid, Mrs L was, 
in essence, paying for the use of it.
The cash price of the car (as per the finance agreement) was £5,495 and Mrs L paid a 
deposit of £295 by way of a part-exchange. She borrowed the balance of £5,200 which, 
plus £4,933 interest and charges, came to £10,133. This was to be repaid by 48 
instalments of £211. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound.)
Mrs L had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and 
returning the car. This option would limit her liability to half the total amount owing 
under the agreement, in other words £5,214, if shed taken reasonable care of the car. 
I understand Mrs L excercised this option in August 2017 and paid £90 a month for a 
time to clear her balance before making a larger final payment to settle the agreement 
in September 2018. Mrs L then took out a second agreement with First Response but 
I dont know if some of this was used to pay off the existing agreement balance.
Mrs L says that First Response didnt carry out the relevant checks or take on board her 
circumstances when the credit was agreed. She says she had to terminate the 
agreement when her income dropped and she had to pay for repairs to the car, and she 
feels she paid too much interest.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ls complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld because they concluded First Response had lent irresponsibly. They 
recommended that the lender should refund everything Mrs L had paid except an amount 
to reflect her use of the car. First Response disagreed with this recommendation and 
says that it adequately assessed Mrs Ls ability to repay the credit and it gave her all the 
information she needed to make an informed decision about it. 
The complaint then came to me to review and I issued a provisional decision on the 
18 June, in which I concluded that First Response ought to have carried out further 
checks  before agreeing credit for Mrs L in February 2016. However, I also provisionally 
concluded that further checks wouldnt have shown that the repayments would be 
unaffordable for Mrs L and so didnt find that First Response had lent irresponsibly on this 
occasion. 
Mrs L disagreed with my provisional conclusion. She said in response that that a previous 
view from this Service estimated that her disposable monthly income was about £250, 
which didnt leave her enough for unexpected costs once the car finance payment of 
£211 was taken into account. Mrs L also says that she had credit cards and catalogue 
repayments and, as the sole earner, paid money to her husband to meet some of his 
financial commitments. She added that First Response was aware that her husband 
wasnt working and that they had no income other than what they received in tax credits 
and her maternity pay. 
Finally, Mrs L confirmed that her rent and council tax at the time came to £365 and that 
the car finance agreement she took out in 2018 wasnt used in part to clear her existing 
agreement which was in fact paid off using a short term loan.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Having done so, I remain of the view that everything didnt 
go as it should have when Mrs L applied for credit but, had it done so, First Response 
wouldnt have declined to lend to her. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs L and I want to reassure her that I have carefully considered everything shes told me 
in response to my provisional decision. I wont repeat everything I said in that decision but 
have attached an extract from it to the end of this document and it forms part of my final 
decision. 
Id provisionally found that Mrs Ls financial situation wasnt as clearcut as to be able to 
conclude that she would have been left with insufficient money each month once shed 
made her First Response payment and Im afraid I havent seen anything further which 
changes my mind on this point. Id said in my provisional decision that while I could see 
relatively large payments from her account to a catalogue account after the finance had 
been taken out, these didnt appear on her bank statements prior to February 2016. I had 
taken into account that Mrs L was the sole earner and she had other means from state 
benefits. Id considered the bills shes mentioned, amongst others. I can see Mrs L was 
transferring money to her husband on an ad-hoc basis, but she was also receiving 
transfers into her account from him. 
Mrs L said My financial stability was very strained at the time of my application and being on 
maternity leave applied extra pressure. I dont doubt that Mrs L has experienced financial 
difficulties  shes provided evidence of a debt relief order issued about two years prior to the 
finance and, as mentioned in my provisional decision, I can see she borrowed from short 
term lenders in later years. Let me say again that Im sorry to hear of her stress. However, 
having carefully considered everything, I cant conclude that First Response would have 
declined to lend to her, even had it carried out more in depth checks before agreeing finance 
for her because I think its likely it would have concluded she had sufficient disposable 
income at that time to be able to sustainably meet her repayments. 
In summary, I am not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. This is my final decision on the matter 
and will be legally binding on both parties, if Mrs L chooses to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provision decision I am not upholding Mrs Ls 
complaint and so dont require First Response Finance Ltd to take any action in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. Having done so I am 
not planning to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I know it will be disappointing for her and I am 
sorry this isnt the outcome she wished for. I hope the following clearly explains why Ive 
come to this provisional conclusion.
First Response needed to check that Mrs L could afford to meet her repayments 
sustainably before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to do more than just 
assess the repayments were affordable, it needed to check Mrs L could repay the credit 
out of her usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial 
difficulty or other adverse consequences. The regulations werent prescriptive about what 
First Response needed to do, but they did state that the checks it carried out had to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit and take account of Mrs Ls circumstances.
The regulations also stated that it wasnt generally sufficient for a lender to rely solely for 
its assessment of income and expenditure on a statement of those matters from the 
consumer. The overarching requirement for First Response was that it needed to pay due 
regard to Mrs Ls interests and treat her fairly.
With this in mind, my main considerations are:
did First Response complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mrs Ls application to satisfy itself that she would be able to make 
her repayments in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
did First Response treat Mrs L unfairly in any other way?
First Response says that it carried out a detailed income and expenditure analysis 
when Mrs L applied for credit. I understand that the lender obtained proof of Mrs Ls 
income by way of a recent payslip and a HMRC tax credit letter. Mrs L was receiving 
maternity pay when she applied for the credit and, although shed said that her income 
would increase when she returned to work, First Response says it used her reduced 
pay when estimating her disposable income.
First Response says it asked Mrs L about her housing and council tax costs and made 
some general assumptions about her living costs based on national statistics. It also 
checked her credit file. First Response calculated that Mrs L had a disposable income of 
£560 a month and so concluded that the monthly repayments of £211 would be affordable 
for her.
As I mentioned above, the rules and guidance stipulated that First Response needed to 
check Mrs L could meet her repayments sustainably and its checks needed to be 
proportionate. So Ive thought about whether its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in Mrs Ls circumstances.
I can see that First Response considered that Mrs L had three dependents when making 
its assumptions about her living costs. First Response also knew, from Mrs Ls working 
tax credit correspondence from HMRC, that her husband wasnt earning an income and 
hadnt for at least a year. It could also see from her credit file that, while she didnt seem 
to have many existing credit commitments (two bank accounts and a store card), her 
husband had four store cards and two mail order accounts.First Response said in response to our informal view on the matter that it was not 
relevant to consider [Mr L]s circumstances. He is not our customer, and he is not a joint 
signatory on the agreement. As long as we were satisfied that [Mrs L] would be able to 
afford the credit, the loan would be approved. Her husbands income situation should 
have no bearing on this decision, when we are not entitled to complete an assessment of 
his circumstances. I therefore feel that to refer to this within your assessment is unfair  
and not impartial.
To be clear, Im not suggesting First Response needed to carry out an assessment of
Mrs Ls husbands circumstances but, given it knew that he wasnt earning an income, I 
think its reasonable to consider that Mrs L might be paying something towards his 
financial commitments and any other expenses. Of course, her husband may have had 
other means at his disposal  I dont know any more about his circumstances than the 
lender does. I also dont know what assumptions the lender made about Mrs Ls living 
expenses as it hasnt provided any detail about these but taking everything into account, I 
dont think general assumptions were appropriate in these circumstances. I also note that 
First Response relied on what Mrs L had said about her rent and housing costs without 
taking steps to verify this information.
Altogether, I think that there were indications in the information First Response had 
gathered that its estimation of Mrs Ls available income could potentially fall short. I think a 
reasonable and proportionate response would have been to look into Mrs L finances in 
more detail to understand whether she could afford to sustainably meet her repayments 
over the four years of the agreement.
However, concluding that First Response ought to have done more before lending to 
Mrs L doesnt automatically mean her complaint should succeed. To determine this, Ive 
considered what information a proportionate check would likely have yielded. Ive looked 
through the income slips, credit file and bank statements Mrs L provided (for her sole 
account) and considered what shes said about the matter.
Our investigator estimated that Mrs L would have had a small amount of money left 
each month after meeting her usual expenses including her monthly credit payment. 
They concluded, therefore, that the credit wasnt affordable for Mrs L in a sustainable 
manner.
First Response said that this estimation was misguided because not everything 
considered was a credit commitment or Mrs Ls sole cost to bear. I dont wholly agree 
with First Response on this point. The bank statements for Mrs Ls account show that the 
regular household expenses such as home insurance, TV and internet costs, utility and 
food costs all come out of her account. I cant see any payments for rent or council tax 
and Mrs L says that her husband paid these as their child benefit and working tax credits 
were paid into his bank account. Altogether, everything Ive seen supports what Mrs L 
has said about the household expenses being her sole responsibility.
Regarding whether or not everything was a credit commitment - I can see that Mrs L 
made regular large monthly payments to a catalogue shopping account, which doesnt 
appear to be in her name (based on her current credit file) in March, April and May of 
2016. However, irrespective of whether this continued, I cant see any similar payments 
prior to the credit being taken out so I dont think its reasonable to conclude that this 
particular item was an existing financial commitment First Response was likely to have 
found out about, had it looked further into Mrs Ls finances before lending to her.
Miss L does appear to have had at least one other regular commitment in place prior to and after the lending. Given this, and everything else I can see on her bank statements, 
Im currently of the view that First Response was likely to have found out that Miss L was 
spending more than it had estimated but even so, would have had sufficient to cover the 
repayments sustainably. And so having carefully considered everything, I dont think 
further checks would have led First Response to decline credit for Miss L at that time.
First Response says that Mrs L made her repayments successfully until she terminated 
the agreement, and then went on to take out another agreement with it when this had 
been repaid. It says there is no evidence to say that Mrs L wasnt able to meet her 
repayments sustainably and applying for credit a second time seems inconsistent with her 
complaint that it had lent irresponsibly to her. It said If Mrs [L] felt that [we] had mistreated 
her and had lent irresponsibly, then why apply for further finance with us?
Mrs L told this Service that her circumstances were different at the time she took out the 
second agreement, for example her husband was working. So I dont agree with First 
Response when it says that it is inconsistent on Mrs Ls part to have complained about 
one of agreement and not the other. And I dont think that successfully meeting 
repayments automatically means that Mrs L didnt struggle to do so. In this case 
however, given I think the payments were more likely than not affordable for Mrs L and 
that shes said she voluntarily terminated her hire purchase due to a drop in income and 
excessive repair bills on the car, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that she had 
difficulty meeting her repayments from the outset.
Mrs L says she struggled to meet her repayments and had to borrow more to pay off the 
balance. Mrs Ls credit file shows that she was borrowing from a doorstep lender and a 
short term lender around the time she settled the agreement, and that she went on to take 
out other hire purchase agreements and a large high cost loan. I dont doubt what Mrs L 
has said about her circumstances and I am sorry to hear things have been difficult for her. 
It does seem to me from the available information that these difficulties mostly happened 
in later years and not around the time of taking out this particular agreement in early 2016.
Mrs L has also complained that she paid excess interest on her agreement. Ive looked 
through the account information provided by First Response and I cant see that it 
charged her more than was set out in the original agreement. So I dont think it did 
charge her more than it should have. I can understand if Mrs L feels that the amount of 
interest was unfair to begin with, but I cant uphold her complaint on this basis alone. It 
seems First Response gave Mrs L enough information about the interest that would be 
charged under the agreement before she entered into it.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not planning to uphold Mrs Ls complaint about
First Response Finance Ltd and so I am not asking it to do anything further regarding 
this matter.
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything further to add before 
considering my decision on this complaint once more.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman