The complaint
Mrs F complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) is responsible for mis-selling a home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Under the rules by which the Financial Ombudsman Service is bound, we can investigate a 
complaint if a consumer brings it to us within six years of the event complained about or - if 
later - within three years of the date on which the consumer ought reasonably to have been 
aware she had cause to complain.
From 2006 Mrs F had a Home Response 24 policy. We categorise that as a home 
emergency policy. 
Where I refer to UKI I include other companies and individuals insofar as I hold UKI 
responsible for their actions.
In May 2019 Mrs F had a leak coming from her shower. She made a claim on the policy but 
UKI turned it down on the grounds that it wasnt within the policy definition of an emergency. 
Mrs F complained about that and brought her complaint to us. We have dealt with that 
complaint separately.
Mrs F also complained that UKI was responsible for mis-sale of the policy. In this complaint 
she asks for a refund of the premiums she has paid. She said she hadnt been aware of the 
definition of 'emergency' until UKI turned down her claim in 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI 
gave Mrs F the policy terms so she could decide whether the insurance was suitable for her 
needs. The investigator found no other evidence that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The policy was sold by phone. She wasn't told anything about there needing to be an
'emergency'.
She thought all calls would be recorded and added to file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1628110reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the policy terms that applied in 2006. They provided cover in the event of an 
emergency. They defined 'emergency' as follows:
"An incident in the home occurring during the period of membership, which if not dealt with 
quickly will:
(a) make the home unsafe or insecure for its occupants; or
(b) cause damage to the home and its contents; or
(c) leave the home with a total loss of its main source of heating, lighting or hot or cold
water"
I consider that to be a typical definition of what a home emergency policy will cover. So I 
dont consider that UKI had to take special steps to draw it to Mrs Fs attention when she 
took out the policy.
As Mrs F took out the policy by telephone, I find it more likely than not that UKI sent her the 
policy terms at that time. Im satisfied that was enough.
I'm not surprised UKI hasnt kept the call recording for such a long time.
I accept that Mrs F didnt make a claim until 2019. Although her only claim was 
unsuccessful, the policy was one which had provided cover for an emergency as defined in 
the policy terms.
For these reasons I dont find UKI responsible for mis-sale of the policy. And I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct UKI to make any refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont direct U K Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman