DRN-4318571
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy U K Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on the rent guarantee 
section of his landlord insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr K contacted UKI as he wanted his landlord insurance policy to assist with 
the repossession of a property he rented out. That claim progressed but UKI told Mr K it 
wouldnt be covering a related claim under the rent guarantee section. It said the policy didnt 
cover a claim for rent arrears where that was reported more than 90 days after a 
policyholder should have known about the insured incident. In this case the rent arrears 
began in November 2020 and the claim hadnt been made until July 2022. 
Our investigator agreed the claim hadnt been made in time. She noted Covid-19 restrictions 
limited the action landlords could take for some of this period but those had been lifted 
entirely by September 2021 and the claim wasnt made until July 2022. She accepted UKI 
could have taken action to protect its position if the claim had been made earlier. And she 
was satisfied the date of occurrence was from when the arrears started to accrue and didnt 
restart with each missed payment. She thought UKI had fairly turned the claim down. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said the insured incident in this case was rent arrears which the 
policy defined as unpaid rent. And it wasnt known whether the cause of each missing rental 
payment was the same. He thought each missed rental payment should be treated as a 
fresh breach and UKI should make payment for the arrears that accrued in the 90 days 
before Mr K made his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. This does set out (within the 
legal expenses section) a number of Insured Incidents which include Rent Guarantee. And 
the wording of that section says, subject to other terms and conditions, We will pay Your 
Rent Arrears while Your tenant or ex-tenant still occupies the property 
The policy defines Rent Arrears as Unpaid rent that is owed to You under a tenancy 
agreement, or would have been owed to You but for the breach of a tenancy agreement to 
let Your property: where [the insurer] have accepted Your claim under insured incident J (b) 
Repossession.
But the rent guarantee section says it doesnt cover a claim for Rent Arrears reported to [the 
insurer] more than 90 days after the date You should have known about the Insured 
Incident. And the legal expenses section contains a general exclusion for any claim 
reported to [the insurer] more than 180 days after the date the Insured Person should have 
known about the Insured Incident unless the relevant cover specifies a different period. 
In this case its not in dispute Mr K reported his claim outside of those timeframes. The rent 
arrears began in November 2020 and by January 2021 three months were unpaid. The 
tenant did then make some payments but the arrears were never close to being cleared and 
at the point Mr K made his claim amounted to over £12,000. 
Mr Ks thinks each missed rental payment represents a new event. So the rent that was due 
in the 90 days prior to him reporting the claim should be covered as hes met the policy 
reporting requirements in relation to that. But I think its reasonable to take into account that 
the relevant section of the policy defines date of occurrence as the date of the event that 
leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times from the same 
originating cause, the Date of Occurrence is the date of the first of these events. 
I think a fair application of that term to the circumstances here is that its the first in a 
connected series of missed payments that needs to be reported in time to UKI.  And I think 
its clear there has been an ongoing issue with Mr Ks tenant paying rent since November 
2020. I havent seen anything to show the more recent rent arrears werent a continuation of 
that ongoing chain of missed or intermittent payments by the tenant. 
Ive not for example seen any evidence to show there was some change in the tenants 
circumstances which led to there being a different originating cause for the more recent rent 
arrears. As Ive already found at no point did the arears come close to being cleared. Nor did 
the tenant resume a regular payment schedule. So the claim should have been notified to 
UKI within 90 days of Mr K becoming aware of the first of those insured incidents. He didnt 
do that. Im satisfied the exclusion has been applied in line with the policy terms. 
Ive gone on to consider whether UKI has done so fairly. I understand due to Government 
Covid-19 rules, between November 2020 and 31 May 2021 it wasnt possible to deliver a 
notice of eviction. But I understand those temporary rules were lifted from the start of June 
2021. And Mr K didnt tell UKI about his claim until July 2022; thirteen months later by which 
time the arrears had roughly doubled. It also appears proceedings Mr K had taken prior to 
contact with UKI werent commenced within the correct timeframe. 
So I think UKIs position was impacted by the late notification as there was action it could 
have taken to protect its position if it had been involved at an earlier stage (such as 
appointing solicitors and providing advice on next steps). As a result I think UKI acted fairly 
and reasonably in turning down the claim Mr K made under the rent guarantee section of his 
policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman