DRN-2414700
The complaint
Mr V complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited refused to pay for the medical costs he 
claimed for his daughter under a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Vs complaint in November 2020. Heres what I said:
Mr V holds a private medical insurance with AXA, and the policy also covers his daughter. 
Ill refer to her as D.
D was diagnosed with vitiligo in June 2019. This is where pale white patches develop on the 
skin, and this is cause by the lack of melanin, which is the pigment in skin (from NHS 
website). Both parties agree that this is an autoimmune disease, and chronic in nature. The 
policy covers chronic conditions.
To treat Ds condition, her dermatologist recommended topical protopic ointment to suppress 
the immune response, and phototherapy to stimulate repigmentation of the skin. Mr V 
wanted AXA to pay for this treatment under the policy. But AXA says treatment for vitiligo 
isnt covered under the policy, as cosmetic treatment and preventative treatment are 
excluded.
Mr V doesnt agree with AXA. He says the policy terms dont define cosmetic, and the term 
is under the heading cosmetic surgery. Mr V says a reasonable person would understand 
this to mean treatment such as liposuction. Mr V has also said the treatment has restored 
pigment, so the treatment has treated the symptoms, not only prevented them.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought that AXA had shown that the 
treatment for vitiligo focuses on improving skin appearance. So, she didnt think AXA had 
done anything wrong by considering the treatment to be cosmetic and therefore excluded 
under the policy.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst the policy covers chronic conditions (which both parties accept vitiligo to be), AXA has 
relied on the following exclusions to decline cover for the treatment of Ds vitiligo.
4.8 Cosmetic surgery
We do not cover:
cosmetic treatment or cosmetic surgery.
And 
4.26 Preventative treatment and genetic screening tests
Health insurance is designed to cover problems that youre experiencing at the moment, so it 
generally doesnt cover preventative treatment or genetic screening tests.
[] We do not pay for:
preventative treatment []
Mr V has said that cosmetic isnt defined in the policy, and hes referred to a legal test for 
an ambiguous term. But when a word isnt defined, that doesnt automatically mean its 
ambiguous.
Its our services approach that where words arent defined, well apply the words every day 
and commonly used meaning. AXA has provided an online dictionary definition for 
cosmetic, which says relating to treatment intended to restore or improve a persons 
appearance. I think this is a reasonable definition and can be considered as the words 
every day and commonly used meaning.
I also dont think the term cosmetic is ambiguous here. Mr V has referred to the heading 
cosmetic surgery  but the key issue here isnt the heading, its what the term says. And it 
says AXA doesnt cover cosmetic treatment or cosmetic surgery  so these are separate 
issues.
I fully accept that the treatment for Ds vitiligo isnt to beautify her, as Mr V says. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think thats the every day or commonly used meaning 
of the term cosmetic.
AXA has referred to several sources to say the treatment here is cosmetic. AXA points out 
that Ds dermatologist has referred to vitiligo being visible skin discoloration, and the NHS 
website confirms that treatment for vitiligo is based on changing the appearance of the skin 
by restoring its colour. Overall, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong by saying the 
treatment falls under the exclusion cosmetic treatment, as the treatment appears to aim to 
restore the skins colour.
AXA has also said the treatment is preventative. Its referred to the NHS website which says 
that the pale areas of skin are more vulnerable to sunburn. AXA says the treatment is 
generally intended to prevent sunburn and skin damage. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think AXA has done anything wrong by saying treatment can be considered to be 
preventative which is excluded under the policy.
Taking everything into account, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining Mr Vs claim to cover Ds medical expenses for vitiligo.
Mr V disagreed with my provisional decision. He doesnt agree that the treatment falls under 
the cosmetic or preventative exclusions. In summary, he said that:
the policy doesnt define what cosmetic means, and where a term is not defined or 
unclear, the interpretation should be against the one who provided the wording 
(AXA),other dictionaries have more generally accepted definitions and for any reasonable 
person cosmetic treatment will include eg liposuction etc,
while the treatment can bring changes in appearance, the object of Ds treatment 
isnt solely cosmetic  the treatment also protects D against sunburn and skin 
damage, mitigates the impacts of the disease by restoring pigment, and mitigates 
potential social and emotional stress and disorders,
necessary medical treatment to treat a chronic auto immune disease isnt what AXA 
had in mind when drafting the policy,
the policy doesnt define what preventative means, but its clear from the wording 
that this was about tests and treatment before a patient experiences problems, and D 
is experiencing problems at the moment,
the treatment isnt solely preventative, and Ds dermatologist has confirmed the 
pigment is returning in some areas, and
we shouldnt allow AXA to have it both ways by saying the treatment is cosmetic and 
preventative.
Mr V also listed several issues that hes not happy with about the way weve handled the 
complaint. He thinks these have had an impact on the outcome.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, were an informal service, and my role is to reach a decision that I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. I explained in my provisional decision 
what I thought was material to the outcome of the complaint  so, Im satisfied Mr V has had 
the opportunity to comment on the material issues.
Ive thought about everything Mr V has said in response to my provisional decision. But Id 
already considered most of these points when I reached my provisional decision, and I 
addressed these in my provisional findings. So, I wont address each individual point in detail 
again.
I note that Mr V has said there are other definitions for cosmetic treatment, but he hasnt 
referred to any specifically. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision on this.
If an insurer thinks that a claim falls under more than one exclusion, its entitled to rely on 
those exclusions. I considered if AXA had acted fairly when it relied on those exclusions  
and for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I thought it had.
For example, Mr V has said that the treatment also protects D against sunburn and skin 
damage, mitigates the impacts of the disease by restoring pigment, and mitigates potential 
social and emotional stress and disorders. But these arent problems D is experiencing at 
the moment  rather, treatment for these is preventative.
Mr V has also referred to necessary treatment of a chronic autoimmune disease. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, AXA referred to Ds dermatologists report and the NHS 
website when it considered the treatment to be cosmetic. And I didnt think it did anything 
wrong by saying the treatment falls under the exclusion cosmetic treatment.Overall, Ive reached the same findings I did in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. I dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Mr Vs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Vs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman