DRN-4399137
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Vodafone Limited has administered a loan he took out with it.
What happened
I set out below Mr Cs version of events and Vodafones version of those same events.
Mr Cs version of events
Mr C took out two loans with Vodafone Limited to pay for two separate electronic devices. Ill 
refer to these as Loan 1 and Loan 2. 
Several months later, Mr C took out a third loan also to pay for an electronic device. Ill refer 
to this as Loan 3. At this point his bill went low. He asked Vodafone about this, but it told 
him he was paying the right amount and that Loans 1 and 2 had been paid off.
Afterwards and to his surprise he was contacted by a debt collection agency asking him to 
pay the balance of Loan 2. So he called Vodafone who told him again he had paid off Loans 
1 and 2. He told them this could not be right as he had only taken out the loans recently, but 
it insisted it was correct.
Now Mr C is being told by Vodafone that he must pay the debt collection agency, but he 
does not see why this should be, as hes been told twice by Vodafone that he does not owe 
the debt. 
Further, Mr C complains that he did not receive the level of customer service he is entitled to 
expect. For example, aside from Vodafone giving him wrong information, it did not ring him 
back when it said it would. And when it finally resolved the issue, in so far as it finally 
realised it did lave three loan agreements with him, it did not ring him to tell him.
To put things right Mr C wants Vodafone to stop pursuing him for the balance of Loans 1 and 
2 and to pay him compensation for the stress its mistakes have caused him.
Vodafones version of events
In August 2022 Mr C took out two separate loans (i.e. Loan 1 and Loan 2) to pay for 
electronic devices. Under the terms of these loans, Mr C was meant to make monthly 
payments to Vodafone either via direct debit or via a continuous payment authority using the 
details from his debit card. Up until October 2022, Mr C made his monthly loan repayments 
by direct debit.
On 11 October 2022 Mr C rang Vodafone. He told it that he needed to temporarily reduce 
the amount he paid it each month for each loan. Reduced repayment plans were agreed for 
three months for each loan. Under the repayment plans Mr C was meant to make 
repayments in October, November and December by direct debit. The direct debit was set 
up with the new payment details.
On 12 October 2022 Mr C rang back to say the amounts hed agreed to pay the day before 
were too high. He asked that the payments be reduced. This was agreed and new temporary 
reduced repayment plans were set up. The old direct debit was cancelled.
On 15 October 2022 Mr Cs new direct debit was set up in relation to the new temporary 
reduced repayment plans.
On 29 October 2022 Mr C cancelled the direct debit.
On 4 November 2022 Vodafone wrote to Mr C to tell him it had received none of the 
repayments that were due under the reduced repayment plans.
On 15 December 2022 Mr C rang Vodafone. At this point Vodafones employee incorrectly 
told Mr C that Vodafone do not enter into temporary reduced repayment plans with their 
customers. The employee told Mr C to ring next week to set up a direct debit for his two 
loans.
On 22 December 2022 Vodafone sent Mr C two separate notices of default one for Loans 1 
and  one for Loan 2. Each notice explained Mr C could pay his arrears either online or by 
phone.
On 22 December 2022 Mr C cleared the arrears on Loan 1 and Loan 2.
On 5 January 2023 Mr C entered into a third separate loan agreement to pay for an 
electronic device (i.e. Loan 3).
On 12 February 2023 Mr C rang to complain that Vodafone was taking the wrong among of 
money when it took the direct debits.  The Vodafone employee wrongly told Mr C that he 
only had one finance agreement with it. The employee also gave Mr C an incorrect figure for 
the total amount he should be paying it. Mr C told the employee that as far as he was aware 
he had three current finance agreements. In response the employee said that must mean 
that the other two earlier agreements had been fully paid off.
On 2 April 2023 Vodafone sent Mr C a notice of default in relation to Loan 2. Again the 
notice told Mr C he could pay his arrears either online or by phone.
On 20 April 2023 Mr C rang Vodafone to query how much he owed it. Mr C was given the 
wrong amount.
On 22 April 2023 Mr C was sent a notice of termination for Loan 2 and the loan was 
defaulted. This loan account was sent to a debt collection agency.
Vodafone tells us it gave Mr C inaccurate information on several separate occasions. As a 
gesture of goodwill it offered Mr C £100 for this, it intended to pay Mr C the £100, by taking 
this amount off the debt. Also it said it would recall the debt from the debt collection agency. 
Then it would reinstate the loan and would set up a repayment plan for Mr C. However, if it 
was going to do this, it would expect Mr C to clear the arrears on Loan 2 in one go 
beforehand. At this point the arrears stood at, £187.50. 
Vodafone also agreed to ask the credit reference agencies to remove any negative 
information it had asked them to register about Loan 2. But it would only do this if two 
conditions were met. The first condition was that Mr C would have to clear all arrears he has 
on this and all of his other finance agreements. Further, Mr C has other debt with it that is 
not debt he incurred under a regulated agreement, in other words, these agreements are 
unregulated. The second condition was that Vodafone will also require Mr C to clear any 
debt including arrears that he has under the unregulated agreements too before it will 
contact the credit reference agencies.
What happened once the complaint was with us
Dissatisfied, Mr C complained to our service.
Once Mr Cs complaint was with us, Vodafone provided new information about the limits of 
its internal systems, In particular, it told us it could only recall Loan 2 and reinstate it if the 
arrears were cleared first. It said its systems prevented it from taking any other approach. 
Further, Vodafone said it could not amend the information it had asked the credit reference 
agencies to register on Mr Cs credit file about Loan 2 if Mr C did not clear the arears all in 
one go. Because again its systems would prevent it asking the credit reference agencies to 
amend Mr Cs credit file if the arrears were still outstanding.Vodafone reiterated that although it has told us it had given Mr C inaccurate information on 
occasion it was not upholding his complaint. Because it did not agree it had done anything 
wrong. It had offered the £100 as a goodwill gesture only.
Mr C also provided new information he told us he was not in a position to pay the arrears all 
in one go. Therefore he is in no position to accept this offer. Moreover, he said this offer was 
punishing him for Vodafones mistakes, which he considered to be unfair.
Further, Mr C told us two very different things about the payments hed made to Vodafone. 
Specifically, Mr C indicated he had been paying for Loan 1 and Loan 2 by direct debit. Then 
he got notified that the loans had been passed to a debt collection agency. It was only at this 
point that he cancelled his direct debit. Later, Mr C told us he had cancelled the direct debit 
in October 2022 due to being made redundant. And he says he told Vodafone this at the 
time.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. Our investigator was satisfied that 
Vodafone had caused the account to default because it gave Mr C incorrect information. As  
result, our investigator recommend that Vodafone must:
Recall the debt from the debt collection agency and reinstate Loan 2.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove all negative markers from Mr Cs credit 
file related to Loan 2.
Treat Mr C with forbearance and set up an affordable repayment plan to clear the 
arrears without further impacting his credit file negatively.
Pay him £150 compensation for the level of distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by its mistakes.
It appears that Mr C accepted our investigators recommendation, but Vodafone did not. In 
rejecting our investigators recommendation Vodafone indicated that from its perspective, Mr 
Cs own actions rather than its mistakes led to the current situation. This is because Mr C 
cancelled his direct debit for Loan 2 in October 2022. Then he did not make repayments in 
line with the repayment plan. Further, it sent him all of the appropriate notifications before it 
defaulted the account. On this basis its stance remained it had done nothing wrong.
However, as a goodwill gesture only Vodafone indicated that it is willing to reinstate the 
account for Loan 2 on the proviso that the arrears are paid in full beforehand. Moreover, it 
would only ask the credit reference agencies to remove the negative information it has asked 
them to register about Loan 2 if Mr C pays the arrears for Loan 2 in full first. Finally, by way 
of exception, it would be willing  to refund the £100 directly to Mr C.
Vodafone asked that an ombudsman review Mr Cs complaint.
I reviewed Mr Cs complaint. Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to 
uphold the complaint in part. However, my reasoning and redress was not exactly the same 
as our investigators. Therefore I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional 
findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. 
Therefore, I issued a provisional decision and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally 
- and why. This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
I think the crux of this complaint is to identify whose actions set off the whole course of 
events that led to Loan 2 ending up with the third party debt collectors. Mr C indicates 
Vodafone is responsible, whereas it says he is. Ive come to the conclusion that Vodafones 
mistakes are not the root cause of Mr Cs current predicament. Ill explain why below.
Mr C has told us two different things about when he stopped the direct debits and why. But I 
think both Mr C and Vodafone do agree that he did stop his direct debits in October 2022. At 
this point Mr C had two loans with Vodafone for which he had contracted to make 
repayments albeit reduced repayments. Moreover, those repayments were due each month 
by direct debit. I think Vodafone had made this clear and therefore it was not at fault if Mr C 
did not realise this. However, after this was agreed it appears that Mr C then cancelled his 
direct debit. I think it is this action that is the root cause of everything that happened next.
Moreover, under the terms of the loan agreement for Loan 2,  Mr C had agreed to make his 
repayments either by direct debit or by continuous payment authority. I think it is reasonable 
to assume, as a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they 
understand the terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. So Mr C 
was already on notice about how he needed to make his repayments. And he was also on 
notice about what could happen if he breached this term.
According to Vodafones records, which Ive no reason to doubt on this point, Mr C did not 
make his repayments for Loan 2 in line with the temporary repayment plan. Therefore, it 
wrote to Mr C in November 2022 to let Mr C know it had not received the repayments he had 
agreed to make. Mr C does not say he did not receive this contact, rather it seems this is 
what prompted him to call Vodafone in December 2022. I think Vodafones letter of 
November 2022 further underlined Mr Cs obligations to make his repayments and to do so 
on a monthly basis.
Ultimately Mr C cleared the arrears that had been run up during October, November and 
December, it seems he did this by making a manual payment. However, no new direct debit 
appears to have been set up to make payments going forwards neither was a continuous 
payment authority set up. Therefore, it was inevitable that once again Mr C would start to 
build up arrears on Loan 2 (and indeed on Loan 1 too). 
Mr C told us he made all of the required payments by direct debit until he received 
notification that Loan 2 had been defaulted and sent to a debt collector. But based on the 
information Ive seen I am not persuaded by this. Rather I think Vodafones version of events 
is the most likely. 
Mr C and Vodafone both agree that in February 2023 Vodafone wrongly told Mr C that he 
only had one loan agreement with it. Mr C told Vodafone this was wrong. Vodafone did make 
a mistake here. But I dont think this caused Mr C to miss his payments to Loan 2. Rather 
the reason Loan 2 fell into arrears is because Mr C had cancelled his direct debit in October 
2022 and not set up a new direct debit. I am satisfied that Vodafone had already done enough to make it clear to Mr C what would happen if a new direct debit or continuous 
payment authority was not put in place.
Moreover, Mr C was seemingly well aware that Vodafone had made a mistake he told it he 
had other loans, they were not paid off and the payments were too low. Therefore I dont find 
that Vodafones mistake in February 2023 ought reasonably to have caused confusion on 
this point. Further, in the circumstances I dont find that simply because Vodafone made this 
mistake it should now have to reverse its decision to default the loan .
I recognise that Mr Cs position is that all the problems stemmed from the point when 
Vodafone gave him incorrect information in February 2023. But Ive explained above why I 
dont see it as he does.
Mr C wants Vodafone to be made to stop pursuing him for the balance of Loans 1 and 2, but 
thats not something I can fairly and reasonably do. I say this because for all of the reasons 
Ive gone through above, Ive no proper basis to say that Vodafone must reverse its decision 
to default Loan 2. Neither have I any proper basis for saying it must stop pursuing Mr C for 
the balance of either Loan 1 or Loan 2. 
Ill note for completeness although Mr C asks that Vodafone stop pursuing him for the 
balance of Loan 1 as well as Loan 2. Mr Cs complaint is solely about Vodafones 
administration of Loan 2.
That said, Vodafones explanation of its mistakes is unsatisfactory. It does not explain why 
its employees gave Mr C wrong information. Moreover, these were very basic mistakes, Id 
expect Vodafone employees to know what loan agreements a customer had with it,  and to 
give correct information. It is clear that Mr C finds it greatly frustrating that he was given 
wrong information even when he challenged it. It is likely this caused Mr C distress and 
inconvenience.  I think an award of £250 is appropriate for this.
Mr C might want to consider if he wants Vodafone to use the £250 to help clear the arrears 
rather than pay him the £250 directly. The choice is his, please can he let us know what hed 
like it to do when he replies to this provisional decision if he decides to accept this decision.
As far as I am aware Vodafones offer is still available. That offer being that provided Mr C 
pays off the arrears in full beforehand,  it will reinstate the loan, and ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove the negative information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to Loan 2. If Mr 
C wants to/is able to  accept this offer, he will need to contact Vodafone directly. Albeit I 
recognise that it is unlikely that Mr C is going to be able to take up this offer given what he 
has said previously about this offer.
From some of the things that Mr C has told us during the course of his complaint it appears 
that Mr C may now be experiencing financial difficulties. If that is so, Mr C will need to raise 
this with Vodafone, I cant look at that point in this complaint as it is a new issue which 
Vodafone has not had a chance to look at. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to require Vodafone Limited to pay Mr C £250 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Vodafone Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £250 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr C can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr C should refer back to Vodafone Limited  if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and 
both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. As far as Im aware only Vodafone responded to my provisional decision. Vodafone told us 
that it accepted the provisional decision and would wait to hear what Mr C wanted to do with 
the £250. It is regrettable that weve received no response from Mr C, but Im satisfied he 
has had a fair opportunity to respond should he have wanted to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Vodafone for its response to my provisional decision. Ive reviewed the file again and 
revisited my provisional decision.
Vodafone has accepted my provisional decision. Mr C has not responded to it. Therefore Ive 
received no new submissions in response to my provisional decision. It follows Ive reached 
the same conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision.
As far as I am aware Mr C has not responded to say what he wants Vodafone to do with the 
£250 Ive awarded for distress and inconvenience. Therefore Vodafone should pay this sum 
to Mr C directly if Mr C decides to accept this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vodafone Limited must pay Mr C £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Vodafone Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £250 
from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr C can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr C should refer back to Vodafone Limited  if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and 
both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman