DRN-4402759
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr M paid a third party £1950 for legal services in August 2020. He says he was never 
provided the legal services, so he complained to the legal services supplier, but didnt get his 
money back. So he took his dispute to Barclays.
Mr M says hes had problems with Barclays before and feels that it has deliberately treated 
him badly. He says its lost his information, breached data rules, reported unfairly on his 
credit file and hasnt sufficiently compensated him for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him.
Barclays wrote to Mr M in November 2021 explaining how Mr M could send it documents 
regarding his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and noting it had explained this to 
him repeatedly in writing, but Mr M hadnt, to date, provided sufficient information to it for it to 
properly consider his claim. It said it wasnt persuaded hed been lied to or that it had broken 
any laws in relation to the dispute. It said it had refunded him three months of interest as a 
gesture of goodwill. It noted that there had been a previous dispute between it and Mr M 
regarding unrelated issues where it could have done better but didnt think this complaint 
should be upheld. So Mr M complained to our service.
In June 2022 Barclays confirmed to this service it still hadnt received evidence from Mr M 
regarding the dispute with the legal services firm. After a significant amount of information 
gathering our Investigator issued an assessment saying Barclays should refund the 
transaction amount. In November 2022 Barclays agreed. Since that point Mr M has raised a 
number of further issues and there has been more correspondence between all three parties 
here. In the end our Investigator decided that Barclays didnt have to do anymore. Mr M 
didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should start by making clear I will not address every argument made here by both 
sides. This is primarily because this service is designed to be a quick and informal service 
which resolves disputes quickly and fairly without unnecessary fuss. Secondly some issues 
which have been raised in this complaint have been covered by a colleagues final decision 
under a different complaint reference at this service, so this service has concluded its 
consideration of those particular issues. Thirdly some other issues have been resolved 
between the parties since this dispute started. Accordingly Im only going to address those 
key issues, as I see them, that remain outstanding outside of what Ive just described here.
The claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 enables debtors (such as Mr M) to hold 
creditors (such as Barclays) to a like claim that they would have against a supplier (such as 
the legal services supplier). As Barclays has refunded Mr M for the transaction described 
and paid interest on that and because Mr M has acknowledged this, I do not propose to 
consider this any further other than to say bearing in mind what Mr M has told us about the 
claim and what Barclays has described as its remedy (of refunding the amount and paying 
interest) Im satisfied that particular specific issue has been remedied fairly (in regard to 
refund and the treatment of interest) since our Investigator upheld that element of Mr Ms 
complaint.
The tax on the compensation
Mr M has repeatedly asked for tax not to be deducted from the interest paid on his refund. 
Barclays has repeatedly explained that it is obliged to pay this tax even though it knows that 
Mr M says hes a nil rate taxpayer. When Barclays paid the compensation it explained that 
Mr M would have to approach HMRC to recoup this taxed amount. Bearing in mind what has 
happened here around this issue Im not persuaded that Barclays has treated Mr M unfairly.
Data breaches
Mr M has regularly said Barclays has committed data breaches and he also says it has 
admitted this to him. Ive considered all the evidence here and Im not persuaded that 
Barclays has either committed data breaches or admitted to data breaches to Mr M. Mr M 
points to evidence of this, but Im not persuaded by what Mr M points to. So Im not 
persuaded that Barclays has treated Mr M unfairly in relation to his personal data.
Lost documentary evidence
Mr M has argued strongly that Barclays has lost his evidence regarding his section 75 claim, 
and it wasnt until this services involvement that his section 75 claim was fairly treated. Ive 
seen significant evidence from Barclays over a protracted period of time explaining to Mr M 
that it hadnt received evidence regarding his dispute with the legal services supplier. In 
those correspondences I can see Barclays repeatedly asking Mr M to supply it and it 
repeatedly pointing to how he could provide that documentary evidence in relation to his 
dispute with the legal services firm to it.
Having considered the evidence I can see a significant difference in expectations here about 
what Mr M felt he had provided and was sufficient to provide to his mind and what Barclays 
wanted to see from Mr M in terms of evidence. Im not persuaded that Mr M has evidenced 
sufficiently that hed provided all required documentation to Barclays or that it had actually 
lost it. I should add that considering the entirety of the correspondence between the parties 
there has been instances of admissions of confusion as to what is meant and some talking 
at cross-purposes. So I can well understand that there has been confusion between the 
parties as to what is said and indeed meant.
I can also see in response to one of our Investigators assessments Mr M has said that If 
they wanted extra information they never asked for it. However I can see on a number of 
occasions Barclays explaining either the evidence it needed or how to supply it (or both) 
including in its letter of 10 November 2021 which references other four other letters it had 
sent Mr M on this topic that year. So Im not persuaded by what Mr M says on this aspect of 
this complaint.I can also see where Barclays has said that due to the volume of repeated correspondence 
from Mr M that it wouldnt necessarily respond to everything Mr M sent it. I can see a degree 
of Mr M repeating arguments in his correspondence. I appreciate that Mr M feels Barclays 
has treated him unfairly and understand that he points to having complaints upheld against 
Barclays in the past. And I can see he is invested in these matters. But I also think Barclays 
has endeavoured to liaise with Mr M and to address new issues hes brought up.
All in all Im not persuaded on balance that Barclays has lost such documentary evidence. 
And even if it had, bearing in mind that Mr M had been fully refunded Im not persuaded that 
this has led to Mr M losing out.
Mr Ms Credit file
Mr M has said that Barclays has treated him unfairly by reporting on his credit file. I can see 
Barclays have remedied the Section 75 claim in a fair manner. I can also see there were 
unrelated transactions on the credit file. Mr M and indeed all users of credit are required to 
make repayments regularly. And if such repayments arent made then credit providers are 
required and obliged to report on credit files such matters. So Im not persuaded Barclays 
has treated Mr M unfairly in this regard.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr M says Barclays has provided a bad service to him. Our investigator made clear that 
other complaints Mr M has with this service about Barclays (and indeed other complaints 
held with Barclays directly) are to be treated separately. However I can see Mr M has 
continued to raise matters on this complaint regarding complaints being dealt with or have 
been dealt with separately. I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with Barclays generally, but I must 
avoid either prejudicing other complaints or indeed awarding remedy for matters already or 
possibly to be remedied under other complaints.
It is also clear that Mr M has chosen to make numerous representations to the parties 
throughout the matter including arguments that are repeated despite having been addressed 
and that choice is not the responsibility of Barclays. And as Ive explained it did inform him 
that it wouldnt respond to matters already dealt with.
All in all considering everything within the ambit of this complaint Im not persuaded Barclays 
needs to do anything further regarding making distress and inconvenience.
And having considered this matter and the key issues as I see them I think Barclays has 
treated Mr M fairly. As a consequence Mr Ms complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
It has nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman