DRN-4086157
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Santander UK Plc caused delays when it processed her mortgage 
application.
What happened
Miss Y says Santander caused delays to her Help-to-Buy (HTB) mortgage application. She 
complains that this led to the interest rate on her mortgage being higher than it would have 
been if the mortgage application had been decided sooner.  
Santander said it was responsible for a two week delay issuing the mortgage offer after it 
had approved Miss Ys mortgage application at the beginning of August 2022, but that didnt 
have an impact on the interest rate on Miss Ys mortgage. It apologised for the delay and 
paid Miss Y £50. Miss Y remained unhappy and raised a complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He also thought that Santander was only responsible 
for a two week delay that didnt have an impact on the interest rate applied to Miss Ys 
mortgage. 
Miss Y remained unhappy. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. She said she felt that the delay Santander was 
responsible for contributed to her missing out.
For completeness I will say here that I can see that Miss Y has also made a complaint about 
her mortgage broker. She thinks the broker was also responsible for delays. That matter is 
being considered by us separately in another complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Miss Y applied for a mortgage with Santander in early 2022. On 21 February 2022, 
Santander offered to give Miss Y a mortgage for £151,875 plus fees. The interest rate was 
fixed at 1.44% for two years.
After that Miss Y changed her mind and decided she wanted to buy a different property. In 
May 2022 Santander was asked to continue with her mortgage application but apply it to the 
new property. Miss Y wanted to borrow £176,250. 
The changes meant that Santanders underwriting process had to start again. Recently 
Santander told us that a mortgage offer is specific to a property and if a change of property 
happens then a new valuation on the property and a review of any other changes would take 
place.
In the circumstances and given that Miss Y needed to borrow more money to buy the 
second property, I cant say that Santander made a mistake when it started its underwriting 
process again. 
Santander didnt think Miss Y could afford to buy the second property, so it declined Miss Ys 
mortgage application on 18 May 2022. 
At the end of June 2022 Miss Ys broker contacted Santander to say it wanted to appeal the 
decision and that it had additional information to provide. 
Miss Ys broker sent Santander the information at the beginning of July 2022. It appears it 
did that a few days after Miss Y provided it with the relevant information. Santander asked 
some more questions after that, and the mortgage application was approved around a month 
later  in early August 2022.
By this point, Santanders February 2022 mortgage offer had expired. Miss Y had hoped she 
could take advantage of the 1.44% interest rate attached to that offer and apply it to the 
mortgage that was agreed in August 2022. But as the February 2022 offer had expired, she 
couldnt do that. Santander had withdrawn the 1.44% interest rate product on 29 July 2022. 
So Miss Y agreed to take out a mortgage for £176,250 with an initial fixed interest rate of 
3.99%.
Miss Y thinks Santander took too long to consider her mortgage application. I can see that 
Santander took around a month to consider Miss Ys application after it received the 
information from Miss Ys broker at the beginning of July 2022. So I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that. I dont think a month is an unreasonable amount of time for a lender 
to consider a mortgage application.
Theres no dispute that Santander was responsible for a two week delay from 3 August to 19 
August 2022. That delay happened after Miss Ys mortgage application was approved. 
Santander had withdrawn the 1.44% interest rate product that Miss Y had been offered in 
February 2022 by then, so the delay was caused when Santander moved Miss Y on to 
another interest rate product  the 3.99% interest rate product.
Santander has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with evidence that shows it was 
responsible for that delay. I appreciate that Miss Y feels that delay added to the delays she 
had already experienced by that time (caused by a third party). However, I dont think that 
delay had an impact on the interest rate product Miss Y was offered in August 2022. So I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Santander responsible for the fact 
that the interest rate Ms Y agreed to in connection with the August 2022 mortgage offer was 
higher than the interest rate offered in February 2022. 
I can see that Santander has apologised for the two week delay and paid Miss Y £50 by way 
of compensation. I think thats a fair and reasonable amount given the timeframe involved 
(two weeks) and the impact on Miss Y (I dont think it had an impact on the interest rate 
product Miss Y was able to get in August 2022). So it follows that I dont think Santander 
needs to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman