DRN-3246794
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) settled a 
third partys claim against her motor insurance policy without notifying her the claim had 
been made  which has led to an increase in her premium.  
What happened
In early 2019, Ms S was involved in a collision with another vehicle. The third party said 
Ms S had caused the collision. Shortly after the incident they gave Ms S an estimate of 
£250 for repairs which they asked her to pay. Ms S told our investigator that didnt feel 
right, so she stopped communicating with the third party.
About six months later, Ms Ss policy was due for renewal. She found her renewal quote 
had gone up significantly  so she started looking for alternative cover. When she asked 
one business why her quote was so high, they said it was because she had a fault claim 
on her record, which had been settled for around £6,000.
Ms S contacted Mulsanne to find out why theyd not told her a claim had been made by the 
third party so she could have explained she disputed liability. And she wanted to know why 
it had been settled for £6,000 when the third party had told her repairs would cost £250. 
She said the claim was fraudulent.
Ms S told our investigator she had no response from Mulsanne, so she contacted our 
service. When our investigator contacted Mulsanne, they said they didnt think Ms S had 
made a complaint  rather shed asked for information, which theyd provided. They 
asked for time to respond to the complaint, which was agreed.
In that response, Mulsanne said theyd tried to contact Ms S when the third party notified 
them of the claim. They said their call was unsuccessful because Ms Ss broker had given 
them an incorrect number. But theyd also written to Ms S about the claim. And they said 
shed been obliged to report it to them under the terms of her policy.
As they had no information from Ms S, Mulsanne said theyd decided to deal with the third 
party. And they gave Ms S information about how the claim had been assessed and 
confirmed they didnt think it was fraudulent. They said Ms Ss premiums had risen as a 
result of the claim rather than anything theyd done  so they didnt uphold her complaint.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Mulsannes response, so our investigator considered her 
complaint. He concluded Mulsanne didnt need to do anything further. He explained that 
we cant say Mulsanne shouldnt have considered the claim made. But wed expect 
Mulsanne to inform Ms S about it and when the claim is settled.
He noted Mulsanne had tried to contact Ms S to get information about the claim. And he 
noted that it was included as a fault claim on the renewal documentation sent to Ms S  
which he said have her reasonable notice that it had been recorded.
I reached a different conclusion from our investigator.  So I made a provisional decision.  I 
was satisfied the evidence showed Mulsanne had made reasonable efforts to contact Ms S 
for her input at the start of the claim  and that it was fair to progress it when she didnt 
respond.  
But I didnt think Mulsanne had done enough to notify her the claim had been settled.  
Settlement was made three months before Ms Ss renewal was due.  But the evidence 
showed Mulsanne didnt write to her confirming this and explaining what impact that might 
have  for example, on her no claims discount.  Instead, the information was simply included 
in her renewal documents.
Because I thought Mulsanne shouldve done more to alert Ms S about the conclusion of the 
claim, I provisionally decided they should pay her £150 compensation for the distress she 
was caused by only finding out when she couldnt renew her policy, or find alternative cover, 
without a significant increase in costs.  
Mulsanne have confirmed they accept my provisional decision.  Ms S was invited to provide 
comments but hasnt done so.  The matters now been passed back to me to make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision and which are summarised above. 
Putting things right
Ms S told us she wanted compensation for the distress shes been caused and for the claim 
 which she believed was fraudulent  to be removed from her record.  I explained in my 
provisional decision that I was satisfied Mulsanne had dealt with the claim as Id have 
expected, and it was reasonable for them to settle it  which meant it was reasonable for it to 
be recorded on Ms Ss record.
And I explained it wouldnt be fair to award compensation for her increased premiums 
because those were the result of the claim  not because Mulsanne did anything wrong.
But I did decide Ms S should paid £150 compensation for the reasons mentioned above.  
Mulsanne have agreed to do that.  And Ms S hasnt made any comments which have made 
me reassess what I provisionally decided.  So thats what I think Mulsanne should pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint about Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited and directing Mulsanne to pay her £150 compensation for the distress she 
was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Helen StaceyOmbudsman