DRN-2327873
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the repairs carried out by Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) following a car 
accident she was involved in.
Mrs S is represented by her husband on this complaint. 
What happened
On 4 July 2018, Mrs S damaged her car in an accident. She submitted a claim to Zenith and 
repairs were carried out by the insurers approved garage. The car was returned to Mrs S.
In March 2019, Mrs S was still not satisfied with the repair done in 2018 so she got back in 
touch with Zenith. After further communication, Zenith and the garage agreed to take the car 
back and look at the repairs that Mrs S said she wasnt happy with. The garage said not all 
the repairs were carried out as some were thought not to be part of the accident and claim. 
Zenith paid Mrs S £75 for having to take her car back in and for the inconvenience caused.
Over the next few months, Mrs S found the repairs were still not done properly and when 
she contacted Zenith she didnt get the responses shed expected. She made a complaint to 
Zenith in May 2020 and it issued a final response. Zenith said the car was shown to have 
corrosion before the repairs were carried out and so it wasnt responsible for this. Mrs S 
didnt agree and said Zenith hadnt repaired the car satisfactorily.
Mrs S brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. She said Zenith provided evidence of photographs of the car three days after 
the accident which showed the corrosion was there before the accident and before any 
repair work had been done. And as there was no supporting engineers report from Mrs S to 
show the corrosion was there due to the accident, she couldnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so she asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
Mrs S said even if she accepted there was existing corrosion, the responsibility and fault is 
still with Zenith. It should have let her know that a satisfactory repair couldnt have been 
achieved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Zenith carried out the repairs to Mrs S damaged 
car that was in line with terms and conditions of the policy and whether that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy states:
We will cover you against loss or damage to the insured vehicle (less any excess 
that applies) caused accidentally or as a result of malicious damage or vandalism.
Theres no dispute that Zenith has accepted damage was caused to the car and for the most 
part, that damage has been repaired. The only dispute that remains is Mrs S believes not all 
the repairs had been carried out and Zenith says those outstanding repairs are not part of 
the accident or the claim.  
The car was repaired initially in 2018. In 2019, Mrs S raised a complaint and said not all the 
repairs had been carried out. Zenith accepted that the crack to the bumper hadnt been 
repaired and therefore carried this out. However, it didnt accept that blistering to the paint or 
damage to the plastic liner was related to the accident. It returned the car back to Mrs S and 
didnt carry out those repairs. It paid Mrs S £75 for inconvenience caused for having to bring 
the car back in for repair. 
I appreciate Mrs S comments that all of the repairs should have been carried out by Zenith. 
But, having looked at the photographs provided by Zenith of the car when it was brought to 
the garage in July 2018, they show corrosion was present before any repair work had 
started. The repair was carried out in October 2018. Im more persuaded therefore that the 
corrosion existed prior to the accident. The engineer has confirmed the corrosion wasnt 
caused by faulty repairs and Im satisfied, having looked at the information provided and the 
photographs, that corrosion was there before the repair work was done. As such, Im 
satisfied overall that its not Zeniths responsibility to repair this. 
Also, in line with the policy terms and conditions, Zenith isnt required to pay for the cost of 
any repair which would improve the insured vehicle to a better condition than it was before 
the damage. So I agree that its not Zeniths responsibility to repair the corrosion.
I cant see any evidence that repair work was completed at the back of the car. And while 
theres no evidence of an excess application of filler in this area, its likely that the corrosion 
was painted over what was already there and why it might be appearing now. I can also see 
that a scope for the works was assessed when the car had come in for repair.  I appreciate 
its not entirely clear from the notes whether this was agreed with Mrs S. But, having looked 
the photographs and the engineers conformation, Im not persuaded, on balance, that its 
Zeniths responsibility to fix this. The engineer has confirmed the corrosion wasnt due to the 
accident but was there prior to any repairs carried out.
Overall, Im satisfied repair to the damaged car was carried out in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. I dont think Zenith has the responsibility to repair the corrosion as 
evidence shows it existed when the car was brought into the garage and prior to any repair 
work being done. I therefore dont think its unfair or unreasonable that the corrosion hasnt 
been repaired by Zenith. I dont think Zenith needs to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint against Zenith Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman