DRN-3628668
The complaint
Miss S complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted her a 
hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018, Miss S acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
SMFL. Miss S was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £255 and a final 
payment of around £265. The total repayable under the agreement was around £15,325.
Miss S says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. She says she has needed to take out 
other debt to make her repayments. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included asking Miss S about her income, employment and residential 
status, checking her expenditure using an external database and carrying out a credit check. 
It noted Miss S had three historic defaults and says these were factored into its assessment 
noting that it specialised in providing credit to people who may have experienced financial 
difficulty previously.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss S didnt agree. She said reiterated that she was in a debt management plan at the time 
the agreement was provided and sent further evidence showing she was in a repayment 
plan for her electricity and said she had received a recall for tax credits.   
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
SMFL carried out a credit check and this showed that Miss S had historic defaults. I note 
SMFLs comments about lending to customers with adverse information on their credit file 
and can see the three defaults recorded were from 2013. The checks didnt show a debt 
management plan and I can see that Miss S had other active accounts at that time that didnt 
raise concerns. However, the credit check also showed that Miss S did have an active public 
utility account with a large outstanding balance (£1,748) which could have suggested that 
she was continuing to experience some financial difficulties. 
SMFL explained that Miss S income was verified by using an external data source to assess 
whether it had been overstated. While this will have provided additional information about 
the income figure provided, given Miss S credit history, the overall size of the borrowing, the 
monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate 
for SMFL to have carried out further checks such as gathering payslips or bank statements 
to confirm Miss S monthly income. 
SMFL calculated Miss S expenditure using statistical data which it says gives average 
expenditure figures specific to Miss S age and location. The regulator has said firms can 
estimate expenditure unless it knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate is 
unlikely to be accurate. The credit check SMFL completed showed that Miss S could still be 
struggling financially and so I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate to have 
understood Miss S specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an estimate. 
 
Given the comments above, I think it would have been proportionate for SMFL to carry out 
further verification on Miss S income and to have asked her about her expenditure. I cant 
be certain what Miss S would have told SMFL had it asked about her regular expenditure. In 
this case I dont think SMFL necessarily needed to request bank statements, but in the 
absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss S bank statements for the three months leading up to the agreement as an indication 
of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Miss S bank statements show she had an average monthly income consisting of her wages, 
some other regular transfers and benefit payments. Miss S has explained that she was 
overpaid tax credits and has provided a recent statement showing this. However, I think it 
reasonable to rely on the information from the time as shown in her statements. Miss S 
October and November 2017 statements contain higher weekly tax credits than the latter 
part of December 2017 and January 2018 statements. I think it reasonable to consider the 
amounts in the statements closest to the agreement date in the calculation. Taking these 
amounts into account, Miss S was receiving around £320 a month in benefit payments along 
with around £1,670 in wages. This gives a monthly income of around £1,990. This is in line 
with the amount that was included in Miss S application. Additional to this income, Miss S 
was receiving regular transfers and also received some payments for expenses which 
increased her income. 
Miss S regular committed monthly living costs at the time (including rent, utilities, insurance) 
averaged around £950 a month leading up to the agreement. Her credit commitments which 
included payments to a debt management plan averaged just over £200 a month. This will 
have left Miss S with a disposable income of around £840 based on the £1,990 income. 
After the payment for the agreement this would leave around £585 (plus any additional 
income receipts) for food, fuel and any other costs. I do not find it unreasonable that based 
on these amounts, the agreement was considered affordable. Miss S was making use of her 
overdraft each month but was staying within the agreed limit and I note that she was able to 
maintain her repayments. 
Taking Miss S income and expenditure into account and noting the size and duration of the 
agreement, I do not find that I have enough to say that SMFL should have considered this 
agreement as unaffordable. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that SMFL acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman