DRN-3484833
The complaint
C, a sole trader, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined cover for a claim it 
made on a trade insurance policy.
C is represented in its dealings with our service by Mr C.
What happened
C held insurance with AXA to cover its work as a building contractor. The policy includes 
cover for public liability.
During the course of building works, one of the labourers was injured. Ill refer to this person 
as Mr N. 
Mr N took legal action against C and Mr C, alleging his injuries had been caused by 
negligence. C sought to claim its legal fees in defending this action from AXA. 
AXA declined cover for the claim. It said an exclusion on the public liability section of the 
policy excluded injuries sustained by employed persons from cover.
Mr N was dissatisfied with AXAs decision and referred a complaint about this to our service. 
Our investigator considered AXA had acted fairly, as Mr N fell within the definition of an 
employed person by the policy.
Mr N didnt accept this, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has relied on an exclusion in the policy terms and conditions when it declined cover for 
Cs claim. As this is the case, it has to demonstrate that the exclusion fairly applies here.
The relevant exclusion says We will not cover bodily injury sustained by any employed 
persons arising out of and in the course of their employment with you.
Its important to note here that employed persons is in bold-type within the terms and 
conditions. This indicates that theres a specific definition of this within the terms and 
conditions.
Employed person(s) is defined in the terms and conditions as:
Anyone
1 Under a contract of service or apprenticeship with you
2 Who is
a employed by you or for you on a labour only basis
b self employed
c hired to you or borrowed by you from another employer
d a voluntary helper or taking part in a work experience or training scheme
and under your control or supervision.
C was the lead contractor on the building works, and used Mr N, and others, to carry out 
elements of the works. Theres no dispute that Mr N was self employed at the time he 
sustained his injuries. That much is clear from the documents provided by Mr C to the 
property owners, which say that Mr N should be paid directly by them. It also isnt disputed 
that Mr N sustained injuries during the course of his work on the building works for which C 
was the lead contractor.
Mr C observes that the legal definition of an employee doesnt suggest that Mr N was 
employed by him at the time. I dont disagree with him. That isnt the test I need to apply 
though. I need to consider whether the relationship between C and Mr N at the time of the 
incident meant that he was an employed person as defined by the policy terms and 
conditions.
Ive concluded that Mr N was an employed person, as defined by the policy. In deciding this, 
Ive referred to a legal opinion prepared by Cs counsel as part of the legal proceedings. This 
says that they think a court could conclude that C had sufficient control over Mr N to mean 
that C owed a duty of care to Mr N.
The question of a duty of care isnt relevant to my considerations here, but the reasoning 
behind stating that C had control of Mr N is. The opinion concludes that C was co-ordinating 
and monitoring the works, and was the project co-ordinator. It was acknowledged that Mr C 
was speaking with Mr N (and others) about progress almost daily and had the authority to 
require Mr N to no longer attend, if C thought it appropriate. 
Its an important point for me that this counsel opinion was based on Mr Cs responses to 
questions raised by counsel. Im satisfied its the most accurate summary of the relationship 
between C and Mr N that I have available.
I think its fair to say based on this, and the other evidence available to me, that Mr N was 
self employed at the time of the incident but, crucially, was under the control or supervision 
of C. As thats the case, he falls within the definition of an employed person which is stated 
in the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions are clear in saying that theres no cover available for bodily injuries 
sustained by an employed person. Mr N was an employed person. Im satisfied that AXA can 
fairly rely on the exclusion and so reasonably decline cover for the claim.
Im satisfied that in all the circumstances its fair for AXA to decline cover for the claim. The 
exclusion can reasonably apply in this case. The exclusion and relevant definition are clearly 
set out within the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman