DRN-3645019
The complaint
Miss G and Mr W are unhappy with the service they received from UK Insurance Limited 
(UKI) following their home insurance claim.
What happened
On 31 December 2020 a car collided with the front of Miss G and Mr Ws house causing 
extensive damage. Emergency services attended and the matter was reported to UKI. UKI 
instructed loss adjusters to deal with the claim and structural engineers to assess the 
damage and appoint contractors to carry out the repairs. 
The loss adjusters and structural engineers attended to view the house on 4 January 2021. 
A schedule of works was prepared and UKI accepted liability for the claim. UKI instructed an 
accommodation agency to assist Miss G and Mr W find alternative accommodation whilst 
the repairs were carried out, but they sourced their own accommodation and moved in on 16 
January 2021.
The structural engineers put the work out to tender and a start date of 1 March 2021 was 
agreed. The work was expected to take six weeks. Mr W was asked to extend the alternative 
accommodation to the middle of April 2021. 
The start date was delayed, and work began on 8 March 2021. Miss G and Mr W were 
informed that they should now extend their accommodation until the end of April to allow the 
work to complete. Miss G and Mr W asked the accommodation agency for help but said they 
didnt receive any assistance. They searched and found suitable properties themselves. 
In April Miss G and Mr W contacted UKI as they were concerned that the work would not be 
complete before they returned home. They were assured that the work would be done but 
when they returned to the house on 30 April 2021 the contractors were still there. Miss G 
and Mr W were offered hotel accommodation which they said was unsuitable. They found 
their own temporary accommodation and moved back into their house on 5 May 2021. 
Miss G and Mr W complained to UKI about the service they had received. They were upset 
that the incident hadnt initially been treated as an emergency and that no-one came to 
inspect the property until 4 January 2021. They complained that the work hadnt started or 
finished on time and didnt feel their concerns about the progress of the work were listened 
to. They said they were left to organise their own alternative accommodation without any 
help and spent longer out of their home than was necessary.
UKI didnt issue a formal response to the complaint as they were still investigating the matter 
when it was referred to this service. However, they said that they would have partially upheld 
the complaint and offered £500-600 compensation for service issues. 
Miss G and Mr W didnt accept UKIs offer and asked us to investigate. Our investigator 
thought that the complaint should be upheld and that UKIs offer of £600 compensation was 
reasonable. She thought that there had been some avoidable delays and miscommunication 
 and that Miss G and Mr W hadnt been offered enough support finding alternative 
accommodation. Miss G and Mr W didnt think the compensation was sufficient and asked 
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accept that their service fell short, so the issue for me to consider is the appropriate 
level of compensation. Unfortunately, damage to someones home and temporary rehousing 
will always cause distress and inconvenience - this is not the fault of UKI. However, if UKIs 
mistakes, or that of third parties it instructed, caused additional distress, I can look at the 
impact of this. 
UKI have offered compensation of £500-600 for service issues although have not said what 
these issues are. I have therefore looked at the issues raised by Miss G and Mr W to 
consider whether UKI treated them fairly. I want to reassure all parties that Ive considered 
everything sent to us even if Ive not specifically referred to it in this decision. 
Having reviewed everything I think that £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss G and Mr W, but Ive explained my 
reasoning below.
Initial call
When Miss G and Mr W first contacted UKI they were upset to be informed that the matter 
was not considered an emergency and were asked to call back in office hours. Bearing in 
mind that the police, fire brigade, gas engineer, and structural engineers were all in 
attendance, I think it would have been reasonable for UKI to treat it as an emergency. The 
incident must have been very traumatic for Miss G and Mr W and I would have expected UKI 
to have offered support and guidance from the first phone call.
Delay in first attendance at property 
Miss G and Mr W were disappointed that the loss adjuster and structural engineer could not 
attend until 4 January 2021. I do understand that this must have seemed like a long wait but 
bearing in mind the incident happened on New Years Eve, followed by a bank holiday and 
weekend, I cant say that this was unreasonable. The property had been made safe by the 
emergency services and the family were able to remain in the property. 
Alternative accommodation
Miss G and Mr W say they were offered little or no help finding alternative accommodation. 
UKI have provided their notes from the claim and I can see that they offered to relocate the 
family to a hotel. Miss G and Mr W didnt think this was practical as they had a young child 
and a cat, and their property was not secure. They therefore decided to remain in their 
house until more suitable accommodation was found. 
Ive seen from the notes that UKI instructed the accommodation agency on 8 January 2021 
to help find suitable properties. Ive listened to recordings of two voicemail messages left for 
Mr W on 8 and 13 January 2021 asking him to contact them. They also emailed on 15 
January 2021. I appreciate that Mr W says he only received one missed call from the 
agency, so Im not sure what happened but Im satisfied that the agency took reasonable 
steps to make contact with him.    The family moved into alternative accommodation on 16 January 2021 which they sourced 
themselves. Miss G and Mr W say they felt they were misinformed about the budget for the 
alternative accommodation. Looking at UKIs notes, I can see that the budget was changed 
but this appears to be because Miss G and Mr W werent able to find accommodation within 
the initial budget. I think its reasonable for UKI to set a budget - and fair for them to then 
extend it when necessary. 
After the start date for the work was put back, Miss G and Mr W were asked to extend their 
accommodation. UKIs notes show that the loss adjuster made some enquiries regarding 
suitable properties and informed Miss G of this. Miss G and Mr W sent an email to the 
accommodation agency asking for assistance but heard nothing from them. I can see that 
UKI contacted the accommodation agency on 18 March 2021 but were advised that they 
couldnt assist. I cant see that UKI did any more to help, and I think they could have done. 
Miss G had to book three separate accommodations as she couldnt find one single one that 
could take the family to the end of April. Moving so many times in such a short space of time 
would have been very disruptive for Miss G and Mr W, and I accept that this caused them 
distress and inconvenience. I cant say whether UKI would have been able to find one single 
suitable accommodation for them, but I dont think they did enough to help.
On the day Miss G and Mr W were due to move back into their house, they found it wasnt 
ready. This must have been very stressful for them as they had to find somewhere 
immediately for the family to stay. I can see from records that the loss adjuster contacted the 
accommodation agency early on 30 April 2021 and then rang back for an update. The 
agency offered Miss G and Mr W hotel accommodation, but by this time they had found their 
own accommodation. I can also see that the loss adjuster contacted Mr W to advise that 
hotel accommodation would be found but Mr W told them this would not be suitable. Whilst I 
appreciate that hotel accommodation would clearly not have been ideal, I think UKI did what 
could be expected of them to source emergency accommodation at short notice. 
Delay
Tenders for the work should have been received by 29 January 2021. However, they werent 
received until 4 February 2021. This resulted in a delay which I think could have been 
avoided if the loss adjuster had chased the tenders sooner. 
There was clearly a delay in the work starting on 1 March 2021. The contractors say this was 
because they hadnt received confirmation that the gas meter had been removed. However, 
Ive seen an email from Mr W to all parties, including the contractors, confirming removal of 
the meter so I think that UKI are responsible for the work not commencing on time. Miss G 
and Mr W werent informed of the delayed start and I think they should have been. 
The work commenced on 8 March 2021. The structural engineers said that this should not 
delay the completion date of 12 April 2021, although I note that a week later Miss G and Mr 
W were advised to extend their accommodation until the end of April. As this occurred so 
soon after the start of the work, I think this was likely to have been caused by the delayed 
start. 
UKI say that some of the delay to the work was caused by Miss G and Mr W raising queries 
about the hallway floor. However, Ive seen notes of the communication between Mr W and 
the structural engineer and Mr W makes it clear that he does not want to do anything to 
delay the work. The structural engineers also confirm that they will not pause the works and 
so Im not satisfied that Mr Ws enquiries were the cause of any delay. I also note that the 
deadline for work to complete was extended before Mr W raised his queries. 
In April 2021 Miss G and Mr W raised concerns with UKI that the work would not be completed on time. UKI didnt act on these concerns immediately and I think it would have 
been reasonable for them to do so. This caused considerable distress for the family who had 
to move into other accommodation on the day they were due to move back home.
Time off work
Miss G and Mr W say they had to take a number of days off work during the claim. This was 
particularly difficult for Mr W as he had just started a new job. Our service doesnt normally 
make specific awards for holiday time that has been lost. This is because we would expect 
customers to have to use their own time in dealing with and progressing their claim. 
Meetings with loss adjusters, structural engineers and contractors are usually unavoidable 
parts of the claim process. I have, however, taken into account that Miss G and Mr W spent 
a considerable amount of time sourcing their own accommodation and moving home - some 
of which could have been avoided had UKI not made mistakes. 
For the reasons above Im satisfied that UKIs service fell short and that the family were 
caused additional distress and inconvenience on top of the anguish they clearly suffered 
from the incident itself. I appreciate that Miss G and Mr W dont feel UKIs offer of 
compensation was enough to reflect what happened, but bearing all the above in mind I 
think that £600 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss G and Mr W £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman