DRN-1724836
Complaint
Mr I says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) cover which he didnt want.  He says it was forced on him as part 
of the overall mortgage deal.
Im aware Mr I has made quite a few complaints, so to be clear, this decision is about his 
mortgage with Halifax in the early 1990s (ending 769-1).
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr I with an answer about this complaint. They 
said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. He disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I dont doubt Mr I may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was mis-sold to him. 
However, Im sure he will also understand that this PPI sale was almost 30 years ago and 
its therefore obviously possible he just may not remember everything that took place.
There is no original documentation left to refer to either from Halifax or Mr I. But as Halifax is 
a major lender Ive evidently seen quite a few cases like this one and so know quite a bit 
about the type of paperwork that consumers were usually given during the course of Halifax 
mortgage applications at this time.
I can see Mr I thinks were siding with Halifax unfairly, but in cases like this there simply is no 
other option but to go with what is more likely to have happened  and Im afraid Mr I cant 
show me or otherwise demonstrate on what basis he thinks the PPI was mis-sold to him.
My experience, for example, is that Halifax would have most likely asked Mr I to provide a 
yes or no answer about having PPI with his mortgage. It would have also sent him 
welcome letters and policy schedules for the PPI policy. Theres no dispute that PPI was 
sold to him, so the insurers would have no reason not to send out these details. My 
experience is also that the correspondence would set out the policy number, the cost of the 
PPI and who was covered. 
So I think Mr I would have known he had a choice and he would have also been able to see 
the PPI had been set up for him and that the monthly premium was being drawn from his 
bank account. I also note the policy was cancelled in 1993. By definition this means Mr I 
must have known him having a mortgage didnt also compel him to have PPI with it.Taking account of all this, I think its much more likely Halifax properly obtained his consent.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr I because Halifax probably recommended 
this to him as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Mr I put forward a case that he already 
had some sickness protection with his job and I recognise this might have been relatively 
generous cover because of the type of job he did. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily 
mean the PPI wasnt suitable for him. I think the mortgage would have been a significant and 
long-term financial commitment and secured against his home. So the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a substantial monthly sum for up to 12 months if hed needed to 
claim. This would have outlived his job-related sick pay. So Halifax putting forward a 
recommendation to have cover certainly wasnt unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have the actual paperwork now in respect of Mr I, but I think its more 
likely he would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of insurance he 
had agreed to. I think he probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
choice although I accept he may not remember this now.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely he never gave his proper consent or that there 
were other serious flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think its much 
more likely he tailored the cover to suit his needs of the time and would have had a lot of 
documentation showing this. 
I'm afraid theres no supporting evidence to say or support that this policy was mis-sold to Mr 
I.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman