DRN-1130621
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about RSA. Hes not happy about the way it dealt with a claim under 
his home emergency insurance policy.
 What happened
Mr B took out home emergency insurance in 2017 and looked to make a claim in February 
and March 2019. His hot water supply was affected, and the boiler pressure also dropped 
off. RSA initially advised him to top up the pressure on the boiler in the first call and then 
advised it wouldnt attend on the second occasion, although it gave him some general 
advice. This was because the boiler was working (intermittently) when he called and the 
policy only covered the boiler if it was broken down.
Mr B wasnt happy about this as the boiler was continuing to show an error code from time to 
time. So, he got his own engineer out who undertook a minor repair and went on to cancel 
his insurance policy with RSA. And he complained to RSA about the fact it wouldnt attend 
and the way it cancelled his policy. It acknowledged the cancellation of the policy didnt go 
smoothly and that payments were taken when they shouldnt have been and said sorry. But 
it simply explained again that Mr Bs policy was a breakdown policy, and the boiler was still 
working when he called, so it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr B complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought RSA 
had acted reasonably in saying sorry and refunding the money taken by mistake. And that it 
didnt act unreasonably in not paying Mr Bs engineers costs and not attending when he 
called. This was because his policy was a breakdown policy and Mr Bs central heating and 
hot water was working when he called.
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know that this will be disappointing to Mr B and I have some sympathy for his position. I say 
this as it mustve been frustrating for him to have an intermittent problem and to have to 
reset his boiler. But his policy only covers breakdowns and his boiler was fully operational 
when he called and so RSA wasnt obliged to send an engineer.
Given that his boiler brought up an error code from time to time I can understand why he 
wanted this looked at and why he appointed his own engineer. But RSA would only attend if 
his boiler wasnt working and Im sure if he had of called when it wasnt working it wouldve 
attended. Ive listed to some of the calls and it is clear that Mr Bs boiler was working (he had hot water 
and the radiators were warming up) when he called. Mr B was clearly frustrated that RSA 
wouldnt attend and went on to cancel the policy. I know he would like the premium 
refunded, but he has had the benefit of the policy and RSA wouldve attended if the boiler 
had broken down. It gave him general advice about steps he could take to help with resetting 
his boiler and told him to call back if the central heating wasnt working. I know Mr G wanted 
RSA to attend but the boiler was fully working at that point in time.
In relation to the cancellation it is clear that RSA couldve handled things a little better. But it 
has apologised and ensured that Mr B has a full refund and I think that is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman