DRN-4293592
The complaint
Mr B and X complain about the way One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) 
communicated with them, and didnt tell them about the cancellation of their motor insurance 
policy. 
The policy is a joint one, but Ill refer mainly to Mr B for ease, and because hes the primary 
correspondent.
What happened
Mr B and X had a motor insurance policy arranged through One Call, which is a broker.
They live in a fairly remote location with limited internet access. One Call primarily operates 
via the internet. 
The policy began in September 2022. As part of the application procedure, Mr B said that he 
hadnt had any claims or losses in the previous five years. 
The insurer then found that thered been a non-fault claim in April 2022. It asked for proof of 
Mr Bs No Claims Discount (NCD). Its not disputed that Mr B misrepresented his details 
when he applied for cover.
The insurer didnt receive proof of NCD it regarded as suitable and it told Mr B it would 
cancel the policy. This cancellation was discussed over a period of about two months with 
Mr B. On 11 November he was told by One Call via online chat that it had all the information 
it needed and he was insured. 
The insurer of his policy cancelled his cover with effect from 17 November as it still hadnt 
received the confirmation it wanted. A partial refund was made to Mr Bs account.
On 25 December Mr B was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. The 
prosecution was ultimately set aside as Mr B said he didnt receive notification his policy had 
been cancelled.
Mr B complained that One Call routinely contacted him by text message or email, and he 
would reply by a chat function. But when it communicated with him about his policy actually 
being cancelled, it did so by letter. He says the letter didnt arrive.
One Call said it had made a mistake when it told him he was insured  it should have 
warned Mr B about the pending cancellation by the insurer. It refunded Mr Bs premium and 
paid £100 compensation.
Mr B and X remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They say that 
One Calls failure to notify them properly caused them distress and meant they had to deal 
with a prosecution attempt by the police lasting over two months before it was resolved. 
They ask for compensation.
Our investigator looked into it and said she didnt think it would be upheld. She said she 
thought One Call had acted fairly. She said she thought One Call had offered Mr B £200 
compensation in total.
Mr B and X didnt agree with the view and asked that their complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the centre of this complaint is a chat message exchange between Mr B and One Call on 
11 November. Ive mentioned this above, and One Call deal with it in its final response to Mr 
B. One Call tell Mr B hes insured, but his policy was actually pending cancellation by the 
insurer.
Although this is a seemingly minor mistake by One Call, the impact of it meant that Mr B was 
content to continue to drive.
I can see that One Call then wrote to him telling him about the cancellation, but Mr B says he 
didnt receive the letter as it was sent during a postal strike. Its also my understanding that 
the letter was made available to him via One Calls online portal, but he didnt access it.
In its final response, One Call said it should have contacted Mr B by another method.
I can say that, perhaps, Mr B should have realised a partial refund had been made into his 
bank account.
But the mistake about this was primarily One Calls.
Mr B is fortunate to have not been involved in a road traffic accident before the police 
stopped him. Ive said above that, ultimately, the action was set aside by the crown but Mr B 
has told this service of his anxiety and stress caused by One Calls actions.
One Call issued two final responses, the first said it would refund the premium and pay £100 
compensation. The second said As per my final response I can confirm a further £100.00 
compensation is available in addition to the full refund already issued. Our investigator 
referred to £200 compensation in her view, but Mr B said hed only received £100. I can see 
our investigator clarified this with One Call which confirmed it agreed with £200 
compensation.
Having taken everything into consideration, and considered this services guidelines on 
compensation, I think One Calls agreement to pay £200 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
One Call has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that One Call Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr B and X £200 if it 
hasnt already done so.
One Call Insurance Services Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B and X accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman