DRN-2162278
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is mainly about the level of compensation he should be paid following a 
succession of errors and wrongdoings committed by Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATSL) 
last year (2019), now Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL), in relation to his portfolio. 
What happened
ATSL conceded many (or most) of the complaint issues after Mr B brought them to its 
attention. However, he referred the matter to this service because he maintained his claims 
for those issues that ATSL had not conceded and because he considered the level of 
compensation offered by ATSL to be inadequate. One of our investigators looked into the 
matter. A summary of the main issues is as follows:
They began with Mr Bs reaction to notice from ATSL that his portfolio was to be 
transferred to IISL, as part of the latters takeover of the former. He elected to 
liquidate his portfolio and transfer (out) the proceeds. He wrote to ATSL on 30 
September with instructions to do this. ATSL received this on 1 October and it 
accepts that it should have executed the instructions the next day. Instead it was 
around two days late in doing so and it has apologised to Mr B for this. It also 
calculated the value of the resulting detriment  between what the portfolio could 
have sold for on 2 October and what it was sold for thereafter  as £470.14, and as 
the amount to credit to Mr B by way of compensation. [issue 1]
Related to the portfolio liquidation  Mr Bs instructions were to liquidate the portfolio 
in the most cost-effective way possible; he later discovered that transaction fees for 
the liquidation could have been avoided if ATSL had used free trades he had within 
his account, which it did not. ATSLs response was that Mr Bs written instructions, 
outside the online platform, were offline instructions so the offline transaction fees 
duly applied and were applied; and that it could not have used the free trades he has 
referred to because they were only for online transactions. [issue 2]
Related to the portfolio liquidation  Mr B also discovered that a stock purchase, 
through reinvestment of dividends from a holding, took place after ATSL had been 
given instructions to liquidate the portfolio. ATSL says this was an automatic 
reinvestment that was triggered by the dividend payment being above a certain level 
and that it happened as a result of its delay in processing/executing Mr Bs liquidation 
instructions. It apologised and refunded him the dealing fee associated with the 
purchase. [issue 3]
Related to the portfolio liquidation  ATSL then conveyed incorrect information to Mr 
B about the total proceeds of the liquidation. He was given the figure of £34,832.25 
and was led to believe this was the total prior to addition of the £470.14 detriment 
compensation. It thereafter transpired that the total figure, including the detriment 
compensation, was £34,923.37 and this was the payment made to Mr B. ATSL 
apologised for the initial error  which led him to expect a higher total figure (after 
adding the detriment compensation)  but he considers the apology to be insufficient. 
[issue 4]
Related to the total liquidation proceeds  remittance was delayed because ATSL 
required from Mr B verification of his specimen signature and bank details; he 
provided these but ATSL misplaced them and, at a point, denied receiving them  
until Mr B assisted it to locate them within its records. In response, ATSL noted that 
remittance took place as soon as the matter was resolved. [issue 5]
Related to the total liquidation proceeds  within his instructions of 30 September Mr 
B requested that all sales related paperwork be sent to him. ATSL first tried to do this 
on 18 October  despite the sales happening on 4 October  but the email file it sent 
could not be accessed by Mr B; it then posted the information to him but, in the main, 
the wrong information had been highlighted and the figures quoted were unclear; 
then, on 30 October, it provided a breakdown of the proceeds to him. Mr B notes that 
there was also a delay before receiving the contract notes for the sales. [issue 6]
Related to the contract notes for the sales  after receiving them, Mr B noticed that 
the contract note for his Invesco shares was missing; he queried this and was told by 
ATSL that a corporate event related to Invesco prevented sale of the shares and that 
he had been given notice of this (which he denied); it then transpired, and ATSL 
subsequently conceded, that there was no such corporate event; the shares had 
been overlooked and had to be sold at a later date; ATSL apologised for this and 
carried out a calculation of any financial loss arising from the delayed sale of the 
Invesco shares; it concluded that no such loss had been incurred, given that the 
shares were eventually sold at a higher price than they would have been sold on 2 
October (when they should have been sold). [issue 7]
Related to his complaint to ATSL  Mr B considers that, overall, his complaint was 
mishandled and, as one of the examples he has given, he cites an incident in which 
one official from ATSL was making a compensation offer to him whilst another official 
was engaged in investigating his complaint (and had yet to complete that). He has 
also referred to ATSL being poorly informed in the course of addressing his 
complaint. ATSL noted that the settlement offer was made in good faith to resolve the 
complaint at the first point of contact, that it was appropriate for its customer relations 
team to continue to investigate the complaint independently and that it complied with 
its complaint handling procedure in these respects. [issue 8]
Overall, ATSL offered Mr B £250 for the trouble and upset he faced as a result of his 
experiences. He considered this insufficient. Our investigator reached the following 
conclusions:
Issue 1 should be upheld because of the incorrect information given to Mr B, 
however appropriate redress has been given to him in the form of the detriment value 
he was compensated with.
ATSLs response to issue 2 is fair and reasonable.
Redress for the shares purchased in issue 3 was part of the total detriment 
compensation Mr B received; ATSL should not have to do any more.
Issue 4 has also been catered for within the detriment compensation and it put him in 
the position he would have been in but for the delayed execution. However, the 
trouble and upset caused to him by receiving incorrect information is upheld.
Issue 5 should be upheld and Mr B should be compensated for the remittance delay 
he experienced, before the matter was resolved.
Issue 6 should also be upheld, with regards to the delay Mr B experienced before 
ATSL eventually met his request of 30 September.
No financial loss arose from issue 7, and the shares appear to have been sold 
commission free, but it should be upheld for the experiences Mr B faced in the matter 
and the distress they caused him.
With regards to issue 8, Mr Bs complaint does not appear to have been 
compromised by ATSL or its complaint handling process and overall it has not done 
anything wrong in the manner of addressing the complaint.Overall, and for all the issues upheld because of experiences Mr B faced, he should 
receive compensation for trouble and upset (from those experiences) in the amount 
of £500 - £250 more than ATSLs offer.
ATSL/IISL accepted this outcome. Mr B considered the compensation award to be 
inadequate. In the main:
He reaffirmed, and elaborated on, the issues, his experiences within them and on 
their impacts upon him. This included reference to an impact upon his pursuit to 
redeem his residential mortgage, which he said was the prompt for and was 
dependent upon the liquidation of his portfolio; in this respect, he considered that 
ATSLs delays and failings put this at risk at the time. In response, ATSL confirmed 
that it was not made aware of Mr Bs mortgage redemption plans.
He disputed the view taken by the investigator (and ATSL) with regards to issue 2. 
He argued that his express instruction to liquidate the portfolio in the most cost 
effective way possible was enough to trigger ATSLs responsibility to do precisely 
that; that this instruction was not restricted to transacting the liquidation offline; and 
that this instruction should have prompted ATSL to refer him to the free trades he 
could use by transacting online.
He considered that the proposed compensation barely covers the transaction fees he 
seeks to recover, that it is a cheap resolution for ATSL (hence its eager acceptance 
of the investigators outcome); that it fails to cater for the time costs and distress he 
has incurred; and that it fails to properly penalise ATSL for its wrongdoings.  
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon review of the relevant issues, including Mr Bs submissions about them (before and 
after the investigators view) I have reached the same conclusion as expressed by the 
investigator  for broadly similar reasons.
It might be helpful to address, first, Mr Bs point about penalising ATSL for its wrongdoings. 
As he will be aware, this service is not the industry regulator, so it is beyond our powers to 
issue penalties or fines to firms. It is also beyond the purpose of our trouble and upset 
compensation awards to issue such penalties or fines or awards with a punitive basis. The 
purpose of awarding a complainant compensation for trouble and upset is to reflect  as far 
as is possible and in a monetary form  the distress and inconvenience faced by the 
complainant as a result of any relevant, and upheld, detriments arising from an issue(s) in a 
complaint. Its purpose does not extend to punishing the respondent firm.
Compensation for trouble and upset is also distinct from compensation for financial loss. In 
this respect, I note the following: 
Mr Bs financial loss in issue 1 has already been redressed by ATSL; 
he considers there has been a financial loss in issue 2 (the transaction fees he says 
could and should have been avoided) and I address this separately below; 
the dealing fee in issue 3 was refunded to him and the redress he received in issue 1 
catered for issue 3 too; 
no financial loss exists in issue 4, whilst I appreciate Mr B could have relied on the 
first total proceeds figure he was given, that amount was erroneous and the correct amount (including redress for issues 1 and 3) was thereafter remitted to him so he 
received no less than he was entitled to receive; 
no financial loss exists in issues 5, 6, 7 and 8; with regards to issue 8, on balance, I 
am not satisfied that ATSL committed any meaningful wrongdoing in handling Mr Bs 
complaint but I appreciate that the overall trouble and upset he had experienced by 
the time the complaint was made would probably have remained prominent to him 
during the complaint handling process;
the investigator looked further into Mr Bs reference to the redemption of his 
mortgage and the correlation between that and the portfolio liquidation; it was 
established that matters related to the portfolio liquidation and remittance of the 
proceeds were concluded before the date by which the mortgage was to be 
redeemed; so no financial loss exists in this respect; in addition, I consider this point 
remote to ATSLs responsibility; Mr B was not obliged to share his personal affairs 
with ATSL but in order to hold it responsible for a matter beyond the portfolio 
liquidation it is important to show that it was aware of such a matter at the time; it was 
not aware of Mr Bs mortgage redemption plan so a basis to hold it responsible for 
anything related to that plan (including any trouble and upset related to the mortgage 
redemption) is arguably absent.
I understand Mr Bs points in relation to issue 2. However, the matter should also be viewed 
from ATSLs perspective. It received offline instructions from Mr B where, in the alternative, 
he could have used the online platform to liquidate his portfolio  but did not. The 
instructions included reference to liquidating the portfolio in the most cost-effective way, but 
they remained offline instructions  for ATSL to execute as such. I accept that ATSL could 
have suggested the online alternative to Mr B as a potentially more cost-effective method 
but, on balance, I am not persuaded that it was obliged to do so or that the circumstances 
were such that it should have done so. The terms for Mr Bs account support ATSLs 
treatment of an offline instruction with offline transactions (and applying the costs associated 
with offline transactions), so it complied with contract in this respect. The offline instruction 
carried the implication that Mr B did not wish to liquidate the portfolio through the online 
alternative, so I am not persuaded that ATSL did something wrong by not referring him to 
that alternative (or to the free trades within that alternative).
With Mr B having received compensation for the financial losses he incurred, the matter that 
remains is that of compensation for the trouble and upset he faced from issues 1, 4, 5, 6 and 
7  and, even though I do not consider that ATSL mishandled his complaint, for the 
cumulative effect of the trouble and upset he had faced by the time he submitted the 
complaint I am prepared to consider issue 8 as holding some (but limited) relevance in this 
respect.
The above issues all related to the same portfolio liquidation pursuit  different aspects of it, 
but the same pursuit nevertheless. They also feature, mainly, Mr Bs time and effort over 
around two months, the errors and delays caused by ATSL over this period and the 
frustration he would have experienced as a result of both (that is, his time and effort, and 
ATSLs errors and delays). 
However, aside from the matter of trouble and upset during this period, the pursuit was 
concluded with no subsequent lasting consequences  in this respect, I note that the 
complaint and complaint handling process continued beyond this period and that trouble and 
upset in the matter remained prominent to Mr B during the process, but the source of that 
trouble and upset was his experience during the pursuit. In this context, I consider that £500 
is fair compensation for the trouble and upset he has faced.
It is not compensation designed to reimburse, precisely, the value of the time and effort he 
invested in the matter; and, as explained above, it is not designed to punish ATSL. It is designed to be a monetary form of compensation for the distress he faced in the matter 
during the relevant period and I am satisfied that £500 does this adequately. It is also 
broadly in line with the level of compensation (for trouble and upset) this service has 
awarded in comparable cases.
Putting things right
I order ATSL/IISL to pay Mr B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him 
by its errors and delays in the relevant issues noted above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint with regards to awarding him £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him by Alliance Trust Savings Limited, 
now Interactive Investor Services Limited, and I order Interactive Investor Services Limited to 
pay him this compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman