DRN-1198861
 
The complaint
This complaints about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to protect a credit card 
account. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Barclays in 2003. At the same time, PPI was added to his 
account that was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt work due to disability 
or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was unaware PPI had been added to the credit card account. I dont know for 
sure what happened in 2003 but Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs signed credit card application 
form. It shows the box for Mr B to accept PPI was ticked. 
On balance, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to do so  although I can understand if he cant remember that now after all this 
time.
I believe Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. 
Mr B says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay from his employer and that he could have 
relied on family and friends for help if he needed it. But the PPI benefits were guaranteed, 
unlike help from others, and would have paid out in addition to his employers pay and for 
longer at up to 12 months per claim. So, I believe the PPI likely provided him with useful 
extra protection.  
Regarding the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI at the time, its possible this 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference 
between what Mr B owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr B 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman