DRN-3271589
The complaint
Ms H complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund her for transactions she said 
she didnt make.
What happened
On 13 November 2020, a £7.62 payment was made from Ms Hs account at 1.20 am. The 
payment was authenticated using a security system called 3D Secure, which meant that it 
had been made using Ms Hs online login. The IP address, which is a unique address that 
identifies a computer on the internet, was one which Ms H used regularly. The internet 
access company was one to which Ms H paid a direct debit.
This first payment was followed by another payment for £37.06 on 23 November, and then a 
series of other similar payments, all to the same recipient, a digital goods company. 
On 10 December, Santanders security systems picked up the payments, and sent a text to 
Ms H asking her to authenticate the payments. Ms H confirmed that the payments were 
genuine. The same thing happened on 12 December and again Ms H confirmed that the 
payments were genuine.
On 14 December, Ms H rang Santander. She said shed confirmed the payments as 
genuine, but she realised she didnt recognise them. During the call, the adviser asked if 
anyone else had access to her card and login, and Ms H asked her children if theyd ordered 
anything, while she was on the phone to Santander. They said no. Ms H told the adviser that 
in any case her younger son was supervised by her daughters boyfriend when carrying out 
online transactions. The adviser said shed raise a fraud claim and block Ms Hs card.
A payment had gone out that morning, making a total of £489.75. There were no further 
attempted payments after that point.
After investigating, Santander refused to refund Ms H. It told her this was because the IP 
number matched her home, and also the internet access company was the one which Ms H 
used. Ms H said shed tried to contact the company but hadnt been able to. She asked to 
appeal Santanders decision, and said she suffered from anxiety and stress. But Santander 
didnt change its mind, because of the IP address match. 
Ms H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told us what had happened, and 
said shed tried all avenues to get a refund, including trying to find the digital goods company 
to which the money had gone. She said she hadnt heard of the company, and definitely 
hadnt authorised them. Nor had she lost her card or phone. Ms H explained that her main 
income was benefits, and she couldnt afford to lose the money.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ms H had said that the reason shed 
confirmed the transactions when Santander had texted her, was that she hadnt checked the 
list of transactions properly because of her anxiety  and because shed thought it must have 
been something her children had bought. The investigator explained that the payment had 
been set up using Ms Hs IP address. And theyd been carried out after logging in to Ms Hs 
online banking. Ms H accessed this using her phone, and the 3D Secure system, which 
meant the payments were authorised using an app on Ms Hs phone. The app was unlocked 
using a passcode and the banking app had been accessed using a five digit code. Anyone 
else whod made these payments would have needed to know the passcode to unlock the 
phone, and the five digit code to access the banking app  and theyd have had to have 
access to the phone and card, which Ms H still had in her possession. 
The investigator said there were multiple companies with the name of the company which 
had debited Ms Hs account. She also explained the payments looked as if they might have 
been a Continuous Payment Authority. This is a type of payment which gives the merchant 
permission to take multiple payments  like a subscription. So the investigator told Ms H that 
if this were the case, she couldnt just stop the payments by blocking the card, and she 
should try and contact the merchant. The investigator also said shed thought about whether 
Santander could have known that the payments might be this type of payment - but the 
phone recordings showed that Ms H had initially thought her children might have purchased 
the items. 
Ms H wasnt happy with the outcome. She tried to contact the merchant, but hadnt been 
able to. She agreed that the IP address was hers, and said her children did buy the odd 
item, but supervised by her daughters boyfriend. Ms H said she hadnt authorised any 
payments to the merchant whod taken the 14 payments, and she hadnt given anyone in her 
household permission to buy from the digital merchant either. She explained about her 
personal difficulties, with health, bereavement, and money problems. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Ms Hs various difficulties. I can understand that the amount paid out 
to the merchant would have been a lot of money to her, and she said its money which she 
couldnt easily afford to lose. Like the investigator I can see that a Google search shows a 
number of merchants with similar names, in the digital products market, but unfortunately I 
cant help her to track down which merchant it might have been. 
My job is to see whether Santander acted wrongly when it refused to refund the 14 
transactions. To do this, Ive looked at the regulations about disputed payments, as well as 
all the circumstances.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in November and December 2020 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) 
must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, I can see 
from the computer records that the payments were correctly  authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.As Ive set out above, the payments were made:
- at Ms Hs own IP address, which she used many times;
- using an internet access company to which Ms H paid a direct debit;
- using Ms Hs phone and card. Ms H hadnt lost these; 
- using Santanders 3D secure system. So whoever made the payment had logged 
into Ms Hs online banking using her phone. The phone had to have been unlocked 
using a passcode, and the banking app had to have been accessed using a five digit 
code. Whoever made the payments must have known this information;  
- Ms H also twice confirmed to Santander that the payments were genuine, when its 
security systems queried them. I realise that shes said that she suffers from anxiety, 
and thought that it was something her children had bought.
I do understand that Ms H has said that she personally didnt carry out the transactions. But 
whoever carried out the transactions was located at Ms Hs address, and had access to her 
online banking, codes, phone and card. Account holders are responsible for keeping their 
security details secure, and are liable if they dont do so. So I cant say that Santander was 
wrong to refuse to refund Ms H in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman