DRN-3656352
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the way Highway Insurance Company Limited has handled a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Highway includes anything said or done by its agents and representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points and my findings:
Mrs A got in touch with Highway after her motorhome was damaged. Highway 
accepted the claim and agreed to carry out repairs. It then said the required parts 
would take several weeks to arrive and later said it would take several months. It 
settled the claim by cash payment and Mrs A arranged the repairs herself.
Highway paid Mrs A around £1,500, excluding VAT. Mrs A understood Highway 
would pay her the VAT amount if she was charged it when arranging the repairs.
Mrs A paid around £1,000 for the repairs, including VAT. Highway said it wouldnt 
pay anything further as shed already received around £500 more than the repairs 
cost her in total. She thought it had made a verbal contract to pay her the VAT.
I dont agree Highway is contractually bound to pay Mrs A and I dont think it would 
be reasonable to ask it to pay anything further. Mrs A paid £1,000 in total and has 
received £500 more than that. Im satisfied that means Mrs A has no loss and 
Highways settlement is fair. A misunderstanding about the VAT may have arisen on 
the phone but, when Highway followed up in writing, it was clear it would only pay 
additional VAT if the cost to Mrs A was greater than the payment it had made. 
Mrs A seems to be unhappy with the repair carried out and says she sold the vehicle 
at a loss as a result. I havent seen any evidence to suggest the repair wasnt to a 
reasonable standard  or that its caused Mrs A any financial loss.
Mrs A was unhappy with the service she received, including the timescale and 
communication. Highway conceded it hadnt handled the claim as well as it should 
have done  and this had caused Mrs A avoidable stress. It offered £150 
compensation and also waived the £150 excess  which it was entitled to charge.
Its clear Highway should have handled the claim better. Whilst the time it would have 
taken to order the parts was beyond its control, it should have progressed other 
aspects of the claim more promptly  and it should have communicated with Mrs A 
more promptly too. Overall Im satisfied Highway has recognised where things went 
wrong and has put that right with its offer to pay compensation and waive the excess.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman