DRN-3563351
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) handling of his 
financial difficulties and the arrears on his mortgage. He has said that an ongoing agreement 
was made in a telephone conversation of 27 January 2021 that meant he needed to pay 
£100 a month to the mortgage by the end of March 2021 and that was all he had to pay 
thereafter. However, were he unable to afford that amount, he could reduce the payment to 
what he felt he could afford. Mr D wants BoS to abide by the agreement he believes was 
made and set aside the possession proceedings it started later that year.
What happened
In the middle of January 2021 Mr D informed BoS that he wasnt going to be able to make 
his contractual monthly payment (CMP) that month. For the previous nine months the 
mortgage had been in receipt of a payment holiday. He explained that he was unemployed, 
had no income and didnt want to apply for benefits. It was recorded that Mr Ds mother was 
living in the property full-time and Mr D was living there part-time and elsewhere with his wife 
the remainder of the time. A budget planner was completed, which showed that Mr D had an 
income deficit of over £800 per month. It was explained there were no options available to 
BoS to try and help Mr D at that time. The consequences of not paying the mortgage was 
explained  he would receive calls and letters about the matter. It was also suggested that 
Mr D seek independent financial advice, and action about the arears was put on hold for two 
weeks to allow him to do so. 
Mr D called again on 27 January 2021, after receiving a letter regarding the arrears on his 
account. He informed BoS that he wanted to set up a payment arrangement. There was a 
discussion about payment holidays, and it was confirmed that Mr D had already received the 
maximum period possible. Mr D informed BoS that he had a relative who was willing to give 
him money to prevent the property being repossessed  he confirmed that the amount was 
£100 per month. An assessment of Mr Ds income and expenditure, taking into account the 
£100 from the relative, was completed and it was determined that there was a deficit of over 
£400 per month. BoS explained that it could only put a payment arrangement in place if it 
was affordable, and its assessment said that Mr D couldnt afford to pay anything to the 
mortgage. However, it explained that that didnt stop Mr D making a payment if he wanted to, 
but BoS couldnt commit him to doing so. Due to his family circumstances, BoS put a 30-day 
hold on calls and some correspondence chasing the CMP. 
On 1 March 2021 Mr D called BoS again to discuss making a payment arrangement. It was 
detailed that Mr D was still unemployed as was his wife, but they were now receiving 
benefits each month. Mr D said that his mother would be moving out of the property and he 
and Mrs D would be moving in later that month  they were at that time living with relatives. 
He told the member of staff that he would like to pay £100 to the mortgage once hed moved 
back in. 
A budget planner was done and, despite Mr and Mrs D having an income from benefits, 
there was still a deficit in Mr Ds income and so the suggested payment didnt appear to be 
affordable. The disposable income was calculated as only £87 per month, not taking into 
account the CMP. However, as Mr D was convinced he was able to pay the £100 for March, 
a payment arrangement for that amount was agreed for March alone.  It was emphasised 
that it was only a temporary arrangement and only for one month, after which Mr D would 
call BoS back. It was explained that this was because once they moved into the property, the 
situation might change, such as qualifying for reduced council tax.
Mr D agreed to speak to a debt management company in the meantime to look into what 
could be done about his unsecured debts.  Mr D ended the conversation by confirming the 
arrangement was that he would make the £100 payment on 28 March 2021 and then he 
would call BoS back to discuss what would happen with the mortgage going forward. The 
arrangement was confirmed in writing the following day. 
On 30 March 2021 BoS wrote to Mr D and informed him that his payment arrangement had 
ended and so he either needed to make his mortgage payment or speak to it to make further 
arrangements. 
Mr D didnt make a payment to the mortgage in April 2021, but then made two £100 
payments in May 2021; one at the beginning and one at the end of the month. He didnt 
maintain monthly payments thereafter.
At the end of April 2021 BoS sent Mr D a letter saying he needed to talk to it about the 
mortgage or legal action would start in 15 working days. As Mr D didnt respond to this letter, 
BoS continued to send Mr D letters and attempted to contact him by telephone.
In June 2021, as Mr D hadnt contacted BoS to discuss the matter of the mortgage, and it 
hadnt been able to get hold of him, it decided to proceed with legal action to possess the 
property. Further attempts to contact Mr D were made throughout the remainder of June and 
July 2021. It came to light at the end of July 2021 that Mr Ds mother was still living in the 
property and he was living abroad, and so could only be contacted by email. Mr D was 
emailed to confirm that was the case, and responded by complaining that BoS wasnt 
sticking to the agreement it entered into in January 2021. 
BoS acknowledged the complaint and placed the legal action on hold while it investigated. It 
provided its response to the complaint on 30 July 2021 and it didnt uphold it. It said that 
having listened to the telephone call in which Mr D says a payment arrangement was made, 
that was not the case. The call evidenced that BoS had assessed Mr Ds income and 
expenditure, which established that Mr D couldnt afford to make any payment toward his 
mortgage. It had asked Mr  D to call back in a month to reassess his situation. He had done 
so, a payment arrangement had been agreed for that month and he was have called back 
again at the end of March to review the situation again. Mr hadnt called back.
Legal action started again and a suspended possession order was granted to BoS in 
December 2021. Mr D was required to pay the CMP plus £75 toward the arrears. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service where one of our investigators considered it. He 
didnt recommend that it be upheld, as he wasnt persuaded the agreement Mr D recollected 
having been made, actually had been. He was also satisfied that BoS hadnt acted 
inappropriately in its dealings with Mr D or in starting legal action when it did. 
Mr D commented that he hadnt had the benefit of listening to the call recordings as the 
investigator had. He asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
Mr D was provided with a copy of the calls of 27 January 2021 and 1 March 2021. Mr D was 
asked if, having listened to the calls, he still wanted the complaint referred to an 
ombudsman. He confirmed that he did. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint revolves on the content of telephone calls with Mr D about payments to the 
mortgage while he was in financial difficulties. Mr D has said that he thinks a legally binding 
agreement was entered into during one of these calls. As our investigator explained to Mr D, 
it is not our role to comment on legal matters. However, if an agreement was entered into, 
we would expect that agreement to be fulfilled by a lender, as long as it entered into it in the 
full knowledge of the key facts. That said, even if an agreement was entered into, the 
borrower would be required to maintain their payments under the agreement for it to be 
maintained. 
I have listened to the relevant calls and I am afraid I cant agree with Mr D that a long-term 
payment arrangement was entered into by BoS. I have provided a short summary of the key 
aspects of the conversations above, and only one agreement was reached  that Mr D could 
make a payment of £100 for March 2021. Following that agreement ending, which BoS 
reminded Mr D about, he needed to speak to it again to see if it could do anything to help 
him further. He didnt do that and despite letters and attempted calls, he didnt talk to it again 
for several months. In the situation where a borrower is in significant arrears and isnt 
working with a lender to try to sort out the situation, it isnt unreasonable for the lender to 
pursue a legal remedy. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that BoS entered into the agreement that Mr D recollects. Nor 
do I consider that it acted inappropriately in its dealings with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
24 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman