DRN-4454501
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the way in which BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim she made
on her private medical insurance policy, including declining her claim and the service she
received.
What happened
Ms H has the benefit of a private medical insurance policy with BUPA (the policy). In 2022
she made a claim on the policy in respect of a gynaecology referral as shed experienced
erratic vaginal bleeding. Urgent investigation was required as she was advised she possibly
had symptoms of gynaecological cancer.
The claim was declined because BUPA concluded the referral related to a pre-existing
medical condition.
Unhappy with that decision and the service she received from BUPA, Ms H raised a
complaint. In its final response letter dated September 2022, BUPA maintained that it
correctly declined the claim but accepted that it shouldve provided Ms H with better service.
It apologised and offered her £50 compensation. It also said feedback had been given to its
representatives.
Ms H then brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator
looked into what happened and didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ms H disagreed so this 
complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision earlier in November 2023, explaining in a bit more detail 
why I felt the £50 compensation offered by BUPA was fair and reasonable to put things right 
in this case. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below. 
..
BUPA has a regulatory obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
Declining the claim
The terms and conditions of the policy set out whats not covered by BUPA. And exclusion
23 says treatment for a pre-existing condition, or a disease, illness or injury that results from
or is related to a pre-existing condition isnt covered.
Under the policy treatment means:
surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose,
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
And pre-existing condition means:
any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your effective
underwriting date:
you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
Looking at the certificate of insurance and the definition of effective underwriting date, Im
satisfied that the effective underwriting date is 1 June 2022.
Im satisfied that BUPA has fairly and reasonably concluded that the claim related to a pre-
existing condition and declined the claim. Thats because:
The referral was made by a diplomate lifestyle physician. Their referral letter dated
21 July 2022 (around seven weeks after the effective underwriting date) reflects that
Ms H had abnormal erratic vaginal bleeding worse in the recent few months (my
emphasis). It also says Ms H had said that she had no period for 5 months then
erratic bleeding again recently (my emphasis).
Im satisfied that BUPA has fairly concluded that these two statements taken together
support that Ms H was experiencing symptoms of erratic bleeding within the seven
years before the effective underwriting date.
I think having erratic bleeding again after having no period for 5 months supports
that Ms H had experienced erratic bleeding before then and within the seven years
before the effective underwriting date. As does the doctors statement that erratic
vaginal bleeding was worse in the recent few months.
When provisionally making this finding, Ive also taken into account that the referral
letter reflects that Ms H had been experiencing perimenopausal symptoms for years.
But that her last two periods in two months were two weeks apart. Ms H says it was
these two periods that the doctor was concerned about, and which resulted in the
referral. Thats why she told BUPA that her symptoms first started on 14 June 2022
(after the effective date of underwriting) and that shed experienced vaginal bleeding
on 4 and 20 July 2022.
I understand the points made by Ms H and I have no reason to doubt that it was her
two most recent periods which prompted her to meet with the physician and resulted
in the onward referral. However, having considered the overall content of the referral
letter, for reasons set out above, I dont think BUPA has unreasonably relied on the
letter to conclude that she experienced symptoms of erratic vaginal bleeding within
the seven years before the effective underwriting date. Nor do I think it has unfairly
relied on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim based on the
definition of pre-existing medical condition.
The service provided by BUPA
In its final response letter BUPA accepts that the calls Ms H had with BUPAs representative
on 9 August 2022 couldve been handled better. The representative on one occasion
referred to Ms H as Mr H and then laughed and made light of this when this was pointed out
by Ms H. I accept this upset her at a time when she was trying to get cover for an urgent
referral for a possible cancer diagnosis.
Having listened to the calls, I agree the call shouldve been handled better and there was a
lack of empathy given Ms Hs situation. However, I dont agree that the representative wasaggressive.
BUPA also accepts that its medical assessment team had sent Ms Hs husband a text to call
when it shouldve been sent directly to Ms H. Its apologised for the service failings, provided
the relevant feedback and sent Ms H a cheque for £50 in recognition of what it shouldve
done better.
Im satisfied £50 compensation fairly reflects the distress experienced by Ms H because of
the way the calls were handled. But given that she was unhappy with the decision taken by
BUPA to not cover the claim, I think even if the calls had been handled more empathetically,
she wouldve always been disappointed and upset with the outcome at a very worrying time
for her.
Adding a special condition to the policy
By way of a letter dated May 2023, BUPA confirmed that it had added a special condition to
the policy excluding any treatment that is for, resulting from or is related to irregular bleeding
in respect of Ms H - with a retrospective start date of 16 May 2022. Ms H is unhappy about
this.
However, Ive only considered what happened up to the date of the final response letter
dated September 2022. If Ms H remains unhappy about the special condition being added to
the policy, shes free to initially raise her concerns with BUPA to investigate and provide a
response.
.
I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision.
BUPA said it had nothing further to add. Ms H said her condition was in no-way pre-existing, 
that she knows when her symptoms first occurred, and it was not prior to the start of the 
policy. She hadnt consulted a doctor about her symptoms previously and the diplomate 
lifestyle physician had misrepresented the details. She said she didnt accept the offer of £50 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that BUPA has fairly and reasonably concluded that the 
claim Ms H wanted covered related to a pre-existing condition. 
Pre-existing condition is specifically defined in the policy terms. And for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied BUPA has fairly relied on that definition in light of the 
medical evidence to decline the claim.
Ive taken into account Ms Hs point about the diplomate lifestyle physician misrepresenting 
the details given to them and reflected in their letter dated 21 July 2022. But I dont think 
BUPA has unfairly relied on the contents of that letter when concluding that the claim related 
to a pre-existing medical condition. It was medical evidence it was reasonably entitled to 
take into account. For these reasons, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is 
set out above and forms part of this final decision), I dont think BUPA has unfairly declined 
Ms Hs claim.
Putting things right
I understand that the offer of £50 compensation set out in the final response letter in respect 
of customer service issues wasnt accepted by Ms H. 
That being the case, Im satisfied BUPA should pay Ms H £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience its already offered (but only if the cheque it sent to Ms H in September 2022 
hasnt been cashed).
My final decision
BUPA Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to Ms H to settle the
complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that BUPA
Insurance Limited should pay £50 to Ms H if the cheque for £50 hasnt been cashed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman