DRN-2012514
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P say that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them three regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies alongside their mortgages.
What happened
In 1996 Mrs and Mr P took out a mortgage with Lloyds at a meeting. At the same time, PPI 
was added. The policy was in Mr Ps name only and covered their mortgage payments if    
Mr P was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. The policy cost £1.74 
per month and covered their mortgage repayments.
In 2001, Mrs and Mr P took out a further mortgage advance and again PPI was added 
covering Mr P only. The policy cost £16.25 per month and covered their mortgage 
repayments.
In 2003, they took a further mortgage advance again with PPI covering Mr P only. The policy 
cost £24.23 per month and covered their mortgage repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs and Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr P 
disagreed. They said, in summary, they thought they were taking life insurance and didnt 
need or want PPI. They also said they thought they had to take PPI to get the mortgage.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs and Mr Ps complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs and Mr P said they believed they had applied for life insurance and not PPI. They said 
they told Lloyds they were not interested in PPI, just life cover.
Were the policies presented as being optional and did Mrs and Mr P decide to take PPI out?
Lloyds has provided copies of Mrs and Mr Ps mortgage applications for June 1996, 
December 2001 and January 2003. It has also sent in the PPI applications which were 
completed for the December 2001 and January 2003 sales. Each application shows PPI 
selected. 
The June 1996 mortgage application showed that only Mr P was to be covered for PPI, even 
though this was a joint mortgage. This suggests to me that likely Mrs and Mr P considered 
the option that best suited their needs at the time and chose to take PPI. Lloyds then sent 
them a mortgage offer dated 10 April 1996, which showed the monthly cost of PPI 
separately. 
For the December 2001 and January 2003 sales, Lloyds has provided the mortgage and PPI 
applications completed at the time. The mortgage applications show PPI selected. A 
separate PPI application form was completed for the PPI cover. This again suggests to me 
that PPI was discussed and Mrs and Mr P decided to select PPI cover for Mr P only.
I think the paperwork made it clear that this was PPI cover and not life insurance. 
So, I think probably Mrs and Mr P opted to take out PPI insurance, knowing that they didnt 
have to take it to get the mortgage and further advances.
Suitability of the policies for their needs
Lloyds said it advised Mrs and Mr P to take out these policies. So as well as giving them 
clear and fair information, so Mrs and Mr P could decide for themselves if they wanted to buy 
PPI, before making a recommendation to take out PPI, Lloyds had to consider whether PPI 
was suitable in their particular circumstances. 
In deciding this case and considering the suitability of the policies for their needs, as this is a 
joint mortgage, I have taken into account Mrs Ps circumstances too, even though PPI cover 
was taken out in Mr Ps name only.
1996 policy
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy of the policy document for the 1996 sale. So Ive 
thought about the terms we usually see in these types of policies when considering this 
case. 
I think PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr P for the following reasons:
 Mr P was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
more difficult to make a successful claim. 
 At the time of the sale Mr P says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay (6 months 
worth at full pay and 6 months worth at half pay) but they had no other means of 
making their mortgage repayments if they couldnt work. The policy wouldve paid out 
on top of any work benefits and covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. Mrs P was eligible to get some 
sick pay form her employer, but I think having the security of knowing their mortgage 
payments were covered if Mr P wasnt working wouldve likely been important to them 
as they were taking on a significant and long term commitment.
 The policy appeared affordable at the time. And if they decided they no longer wanted 
the policy they couldve cancelled it without losing out financially. 
 Mr P said he had taken a union membership around 1996, which he thought provided a 
hardship fund if a union member was in financial difficulty. However, this was likely to 
have been a discretionary payment, rather than being guaranteed in the same way that 
PPI was if Mr P met certain criteria. So, this doesnt change my view.  
2001 policyMrs and Mr P said their personal circumstances were the same in 2001 as they were in 
1996. So, for the same reasons as Ive given in relation to the 1996 PPI policy, I also think 
the 2001 was suitable for their circumstances.
2003 policy
By 2003, Mr P had changed jobs. He was only entitled to statutory sick pay. Mrs P 
was still eligible to get the same level of sick pay, although she had also changed 
jobs. They also said they had some savings. 
If Mr P was out of work sick, I think he wouldve found PPI offered valuable protection 
to cover their repayments, particularly given that his income likely wouldve been 
reduced if only receiving statutory sick pay. Having PPI wouldve allowed them to use 
Mrs Ps income or work related benefits to meet their other household expenditure if 
Mr P wasnt working. It wouldve provided cover if Mr P lost his job.
I cant see that having some savings made the policy unsuitable for them. It wouldve 
allowed them to use these savings to meet other household expenditure if Mr P was 
out of work. This may have been particularly important, given his reduced sick pay 
cover.
As before the policy appeared affordable, Mr P was eligible to take out the insurance 
cover and I think he couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered as he was 
not affected by the main limitations or policy exclusions. So, it seems to me that the 
2003 policy was also suitable for their needs.  
Were they given enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policies to make 
an informed choice about buying them?
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr P information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give them all the information it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons that Ive found these policies were suitable, and based 
on what Mrs and Mr P have said about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve 
still taken out the policies if theyd been given all the proper information.  
So, overall, I cant see that Mrs and Mr P have lost out because of anything that Lloyds 
couldve done better, so I make no award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman