DRN-2979552
Complaint
Mr O and Mrs O says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added overdraft charges to 
their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty. Theyve also said they were declined a 
loan which would have helped them clear their overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr O and Mrs Os concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr O and Mrs O unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr O and Mrs O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr O and Mrs O over the years were fair and reasonable, 
or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr O and Mrs O if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr O and Mrs O was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether 
there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr O and Mrs O fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Lloyds continued charging 
Mr O and Mrs O even though it knew they were in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr O and Mrs 
O unfairly or unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Mr O and Mrs Os statements throughout the period concerned I cant 
see that Lloyds ought to have been aware that Mr O and Mrs O might have been struggling.  
Mr O and Mrs O may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over 
Mr O and Mrs O expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, 
non-contractual and discretionary transactions being made from the account too. 
So I cant reasonably say the overdraft charges were responsible for the overdrawn balance 
here. Indeed, Mr O and Mrs Os account statements appear to show that they spent longer 
periods in a credit balance after the changes to Lloyds overdraft charging structure. Equally 
the amount being credited to Mr O and Mrs Os account each month didnt indicate that there 
was no reasonable prospect of them seeing a credit balance at any stage either.
Ive also thought about what Mr O and Mrs O have said about telling Lloyds they were in 
financial difficulty. I dont know exactly what contact Mr O and Mrs O had with Lloyds. But 
Ive had a look at the record of the contact Mr O and Mrs O has had with Lloyds over the 
years. And while Ive seen some instances of charges having been refunded, I cant see any 
indication of there being a discussion about Mr O and Mrs O being in financial difficulty. 
Its possible these records dont necessarily reflect every conversation Mr O and Mrs O had 
with Lloyds. However, without anything else from Mr O and Mrs O to corroborate them 
having had the discussions theyve referred to and what Ive already said about the conduct 
of their account, theres simply not enough here for me to find that Mr O and Mrs O did tell 
Lloyds they were struggling prior to their complaint. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr O and Mrs O 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves, or in the contact notes, which ought to have alerted Lloyds to potential financial 
difficulty. So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
proceed with the interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think Lloyds unfairly 
charged Mr O and Mrs O in circumstances where it ought to have realised that they may 
have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Finally, Ive also thought about what Mr O and Mrs O have said about being declined for a 
loan. I can see that at least one loan application was declined. Its not clear why this 
application wasnt approved. But a lender will have its own criteria for assessing 
applications. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that a lender 
should have lent in circumstances where it carried out an assessment and the results of that 
assessment appear to have suggested it shouldnt have lent. 
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr O and Mrs Os 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr O and Mrs O  especially as its 
taken some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that theyll understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr O and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman