DRN-3684944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Saga Services Limiteds service and that it wrongly recorded 
their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, Saga was the broker. The 
policy was insured by a different business and another business dealt with the claim on the 
insurers behalf. 
Mr and Mrs S were due to go on a package holiday in mid July 2020. On 17 March 2020 the 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) (formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad because of 
Covid-19. On 28 March 2020 Mrs S emailed Saga for advice on whether she should pay the 
balance of the holiday cost, due on 17 April 2020, and whether the travel insurance would 
cover the full amount if the travel provider cancelled the holiday.
On 31 March 2020 Saga responded. Mr and Mrs S say Saga told them that if they paid 
further money towards the holiday while the FCDO advice was in place it would be at their 
own risk. They say they took Sagas advice and didnt pay the balance of the holiday cost so 
the holiday was cancelled. The claimed on the policy for the lost deposit cancellation cost. 
The insurer declined the claim. It referred to the policy exclusion about claims caused by  
disinclination to travel. And it said as the airline didnt resume flights to Mr and Mrs S 
holiday destination until after their holiday date it was likely the travel provider would have 
cancelled the trip. That meant if Mr and Mrs S had paid the full amount for the package 
holiday the travel provider would have given them a full refund.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us that they cancelled their holiday on Sagas advice but then 
their claim wasnt covered. Also at policy renewal they found out the claim had wrongly been 
recorded as a medical claim. Theyd asked Saga to put the correct reason for the claim but it 
hadnt responded. They want Saga to pay their claim and for the claim record to be changed 
so that it didnt refer to a medical claim.
Saga said it didnt tell Mr and Mrs S to cancel their holiday and just told them of the risks in 
continuing to make payments for the holiday.
Our investigator said Saga wasnt responsible the claim decision or the way the claim was 
recorded, which was the insurers responsibility. Mr and Mrs S could make a separate 
complaint about those two matters against the insurer if they wanted to.
As to Sagas role, our investigator didnt think it advised Mr and Mrs S to cancel their holiday.  
But he said that in response to Mrs S query Saga should have told them that any 
cancellation by the travel provider would have been covered by The Package Travel and 
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). Under PTR if the travel provider 
cancelled the holiday due to the Covid-19 it would have refunded the holiday cost to Mr and 
Mrs S. But if Mr and Mr S cancelled the trip the PTR didnt apply. Our investigator said at the 
very least Saga should have directed Mr and Mrs S to the insurer to discuss the cover under 
the policy so they could make an informed choice about cancelling their holiday. Our 
investigator recommended Saga pay Mr and Mrs £100 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its service.
Saga disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said it shouldnt be expected to  
confirm if a specific claim would or wouldnt be covered under the policy as that wasnt its 
responsibility or expertise. Mr and Mrs S could have found the contact number for the insurer 
in the policy documents and its website if they were considering making a claim. It also said 
it had told Mr and Mrs S that if a travel provider cancelled the trip the provider should issue a 
full refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly explained that Saga wasnt responsible for the claim decision or 
how the claim was recorded so I havent considered those two matters in this decision about 
Saga.
I dont think Saga was responsible for telling Mr and Mrs S if their claim would be covered. 
But Saga sold the policy, which was its own branded policy, and I think its reasonable for 
Saga to have a good level of understanding of the policy and general understanding of the 
PTR.
Mr and Mrs S contacted Saga setting out their travel provider, the holiday date and when the 
balance payment was due. They asked Saga: 
Should we go ahead and pay this and will the full amount be covered by our travel 
insurance if the travel company cancels the holiday?
Saga responded: 
Current Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice is against all travel. In normal 
circumstances, if a travel provider is unable to fulfil an arranged trip, a full refund 
should be issued or some may offer another trip as an alternative. Paying further 
monies towards these trips while FCO advise against travel would be done so at your 
own risk. This means you may be out of pocket in the event the trip is cancelled and 
your travel company are unable to refund your payments.
I wouldnt expect Saga to answer whether Mr and Mrs S should pay the remaining balance, 
thats their decision. And I dont think Saga advised Mr and Mrs S to cancel the holiday. 
However, I think Saga didnt clearly answer the question Mr and Mrs S asked about the 
travel provider. Saga said it told Mr and Mrs S that if the travel provider cancelled the trip it 
should issue a full refund. But Sagas response to Mr and Mrs S didnt give them that clear 
and important information. Mrs S highlighted in her letter to the insurer that Saga had only 
told her about normal circumstances and I accept that Mr and Mrs S could reasonably 
understand Covid-19 wasnt normal circumstances. I think it would have been reasonable 
for Saga to have given Mr and Mrs S clearer information about the travel providers 
obligations under the PTR and the consequences if Mr and Mrs S cancelled the holiday, 
which is that the travel provider wouldnt have to pay any refund.If Sagas representative didnt know how to clearly answer Mr and Mrs S query it would 
have been reasonable for it to have directed them to the insurer. Saga said the insurers 
contact numbers were in the policy and on its website. But Mr and Mrs S contacted Saga 
with the query and they could reasonably except it to provide an informed response or direct 
them to the insurer for a response.
As Ive said, I dont think Saga is responsible for Mr and Mrs S cancelling their trip. But if 
Saga had given them clear information about the travel providers obligations under the PTR, 
as I think it should have done, then Mr and Mrs S would have had the relevant information 
when deciding whether to cancel the trip. They may not have cancelled trip, and even if they 
would have still cancelled they would have done so knowing the consequence of their 
decision and wouldnt have been so upset by the insurers decline of their claim.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I think its reasonable for Saga to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Saga Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience its poor service caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman