DRN-3220762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their mortgage and unsecured loan with Santander UK Plc. 
Theyre unhappy with how it has treated them while the mortgage has been in arrears. Mr B 
has been made bankrupt but his trustee has confirmed that they have no interest in this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in 2009, and the loan in 2017. Until 2018, the 
mortgage was up to date. Unfortunately, due to problems with his business, Mr B was made 
bankrupt in 2018 and the mortgage began to fall into arrears. At the same time, Mrs B was 
unwell and found dealing with Santander very difficult.
Mr and Mrs B took debt advice, and their advisor recommended that they ask Santander to 
convert the mortgage to interest only terms to make it more affordable, but Santander 
refused to do so. Mr and Mrs B then missed some payments, but were able to resume 
making full payments to the mortgage thereafter. But this meant they were unable to make 
any payments to the loan, which was passed to debt collectors.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage fixed interest rate came to an end in September 2019, so their 
payments increased. They asked again to switch to interest only, but Santander again 
refused. It agreed to reduced payments, but that led to arrears building up.
When Mr and Mrs B missed payments, Santander began to call and write to them. 
Mr and Mrs B asked Santander not to call and to write to Mr B only, as the contact was very 
upsetting for Mrs B. Santander didnt do that. Eventually, it agreed to pass Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage to its team that specialises in working with vulnerable customers, but there was a 
delay in doing so.
At the end of January 2020, Santander called Mr B to discuss the reduced payment 
arrangement. Mr B says that he wasnt able to speak at that time, so Santander cancelled 
the arrangement and took a full payment from their bank account.
Mr and Mrs B complained. They said that Santander had repeatedly contacted them despite 
being asked  and agreeing  not to do so. It had been unhelpful and unsympathetic and 
had even referred to Mrs B as Mrs Mental State in letters.
Mr and Mrs B think that the level of contact theyve received amounts to harassment. They 
say Santanders debt collectors have been sympathetic and agreed to a payment freeze on 
the loan, and they dont understand why Santander cant do the same for the mortgage. In 
particular, Santander has been unsympathetic to Mrs Bs mental health concerns and has 
refused to make any adjustments or stop writing to her.
Santander said that it had at first only moved the personal loan to the vulnerability team, not 
the mortgage, but then moved the mortgage too, which reduced the contact Mr and Mrs B 
were previously getting from the collections team. It offered £100 compensation for the delay 
in moving the mortgage to the vulnerability team. It offered further compensation of £150 for 
poor communication, making £250 in total. But it said it couldnt convert the mortgage to 
interest only because it was in arrears and Mr and Mrs B had no repayment strategy.
Our investigator said Santander should have allowed Mr and Mrs B to move to its lower 
Follow on Rate (FOR) rather than the higher standard variable rate (SVR) when their fixed 
rate ended in September 2019. He said Santander should recalculate the mortgage as if that 
had happened and use any refund to reduce the arrears. And he said that Santander should 
pay a further £200 compensation for the upset caused by how it had described Mrs B in its 
letter.
Santander accepted that. But Mr and Mrs B didnt. While they were unhappy that Santander 
hadnt considered other options, they were willing to accept the FOR as a compromise 
solution for that part of their complaint. But for how Santander had treated Mrs B in 
particular, they said they thought a minimum of £500 compensation and a written apology 
was more appropriate. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs B have faced in recent years, and the 
health challenges Mrs B has had. I recognise this cant have been an easy time for 
them. It seems that their financial problems began around the time of the failure of Mr 
Bs business and his bankruptcy in 2018.
When someone goes bankrupt, their debts are included in the bankruptcy estate, 
which means they are no longer liable for them. However, in this particular case, 
things are not quite so straightforward.
In the first place, it seems the personal loan was a joint one  and so the bankruptcy 
doesnt mean it was written off, it means that while Mr B is no longer liable for it, Mrs 
B continues to be. And thats why Santander continued to chase Mrs B and then 
referred the loan to its debt collectors. However, Mr and Mrs B have said that they 
were treated sympathetically by the debt collectors and that doesnt form part of this 
complaint. So in the rest of this decision Ill focus on the mortgage.
When a person goes bankrupt with a secured debt like a mortgage, in law they are 
no longer liable for the debt  but the security still exists. That means that, 
technically, Santander can no longer hold Mr B liable for the mortgage payments, 
though it retains the right to call in the 
security by way of repossessing the property. So for that reason its in Mr Bs 
interests to
keep making the payments  to avoid repossession  even if hes not strictly liable to 
do so.
And as it was a joint debt Mrs B remains liable for the mortgage payments in any 
case. That means, for all practical purposes, Mr Bs bankruptcy had no effect on 
whether Mr and Mrs B needed to continue to pay their mortgage. However, the 
bankruptcy did show that they were now in financial difficulty.
Mr and Mrs B raised several complaints about this to Santander, which issued a 
number of final responses. When a final response is issued, that gives a deadline of 
six months to bring the complaint to us. I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs B didnt refer all their complaints to us in time. The effect of that is that I will only be 
able to consider things that happened from late 2018 onwards as part of this 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander referred them to debt advisors  but then 
refused to act on that advice by converting the mortgage to interest only terms.
Converting the mortgage to interest only reduces the monthly payments  since the 
borrower is only paying the interest, not the capital. However, to switch the mortgage 
over on a permanent basis would not, in my view, have been the right thing to do in 
this case. If that had happened, Mr and Mrs B would not have been paying off any 
capital, and would reach the end of the mortgage term without any means of paying 
off the capital sum. That would place them in a very difficult position. A permanent 
switch to interest only should only happen where theres a clear and credible strategy 
for repaying the capital at the end of the term, which wasnt the case here.
The mortgage could have been switched over on a temporary basis, to give Mr and 
Mrs B some respite. But this is another form of payment arrangement, and I can see 
that Santander regularly discussed what they could pay with Mr B and agreed 
payment arrangements with him. This amounts to the same thing  an interest only 
concession is just a form of payment arrangement where Santander only collects the 
interest, rather than some other form of reduced payment. So Im satisfied that 
Santander did consider payment arrangements and agreed to a series of them.
And where a customer is in arrears, there are regulatory obligations to send regular 
letters about the impact of missed and reduced payments, as well as arrears 
statements. Santander is obliged to send these, and the regulator requires them to 
include statements about the consequences of not making their payments in full.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B saw all this as threatening and harassment. But the 
regulator considers it important that customers in arrears know their situation and the 
possible consequences of it, and that the lender tries to understand their customers 
situation to see if the mortgage can get back on track. In that light, I dont think 
Santander acted unreasonably in sending letters and trying to discuss matters with 
them  though it should have moved them to the vulnerability team, which has more 
options available to it, sooner than it did.
I do think there is more Santander could have done to assist them in other ways. Mr 
and Mrs B were on a fixed rate until September 2019. From that point on they 
reverted to Santanders SVR.
Santander offers a follow on rate (FOR) to customers whose mortgage was taken out 
more recently as a reversion rate which is currently lower than its SVR. And it allows 
customers with older mortgages to move from the SVR to the FOR  as it now 
accepts it should have done in this case. That would have reduced Mr and Mrs Bs 
monthly payments, and so reduced their arrears.
However, Santander also offers what it calls a vulnerable assist rate, a rate which is 
lower than both the SVR and the FOR and is designed to help vulnerable customers 
in financial difficulty.
Theres no dispute that Mrs B in particular is vulnerable. Santander agreed to move 
their mortgage from its standard collections process to its vulnerability team in 
recognition of this  around the same time as the fixed rate came to an end. There 
was some delay in that happening, but it eventually happened in November 2019.Theres no evidence that Santander gave any consideration to whether it would have 
been appropriate to put Mr and Mrs B on the vulnerable assist rate at the same time 
as it moved them to the vulnerable assist team. It now says they would have had to 
engage and complete an assessment of their income and expenditure before it could 
consider that.
But I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have known this rate existed, and I think it 
would have been appropriate for Santander to have considered this at the time, and 
then discussed it with Mr and Mrs B  at which point it could have asked for details of 
their income and expenditure.
I can see from the contact notes that it did assess their income and expenditure 
several times through 2019 when agreeing payment arrangements. So I think Mr and 
Mrs B would have been able to go through that process had Santander discussed it 
with them and offered to consider the vulnerable assist rate.
My provisional view of how to put things right
In order to put things right, I said that Santander should re-calculate the mortgage as if Mr 
and Mrs B had been on the vulnerable assist rate. I then turned to the question of 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience. I said:
I also think that Santander should pay Mr and Mrs B further compensation. Had it put 
them on the vulnerable assist rate, that would have reduced their payments and 
made things somewhat easier for them  even if it didnt resolve their problems. But 
having to pay more than they needed to caused them distress and inconvenience.
And Im particularly concerned about the letter Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs B in 
December 2019. By this point, Santander was well aware of Mrs Bs mental illness. It 
had moved their account to the vulnerable assist team because of that. So to send a 
letter calling Mrs B not Mrs B but Mrs Mental State and Mrs Health  not once, but 
throughout the letter  was crass, insensitive and wholly inappropriate. I dont doubt 
that it was a highly regrettable error rather than deliberate malice on the part of the 
complaint handler  though Santander hasnt offered an explanation of how it came 
about. But even if it was an error, that doesnt excuse it in my view. It should never 
have happened. And I can understand how deeply upsetting Mrs B in particular found 
it.
Following on from that letter, Ive not seen that Santander made any particular efforts 
to investigate how it had happened, or to apologise to Mr and particularly Mrs B for 
the upset caused. By this point the mortgage was with the vulnerable team, which 
meant Santander knew it had to take particular care  but it doesnt seem to have 
taken any here. In the circumstances, I can see how Mr and Mrs B would see this as 
showing a lack of insight and empathy for their difficult situation, and how the impact 
of that letter influences their perception of the whole experience they had with 
Santander. For them, its become an emblem of Santanders approach to their 
mortgage and their circumstances. And had Santander taken more care  to check 
the letter before sending, and to acknowledge and apologise for it afterwards  this 
wouldnt have happened.
Santander has already paid Mr and Mrs B some compensation in respect of their 
complaints. And Ive taken that into account. But in my view it doesnt go far enough. 
In particular, it doesnt recognise the deep hurt and upset it caused In all the circumstances, and taking into account what Ive said above, I think 
Santander should increase the total compensation offered to Mr and Mrs B to £1,000.
I note that Mr and Mrs B have also requested a written apology from Santander for 
the December 2019 letter. I dont intend to direct it to do that, since in my view theres 
little value in an apology given under instruction. But I would strongly urge it to 
consider doing so.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Santander said that the vulnerable assist rate 
became available on 7 October 2019, so that is when the re-calculation should start from.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about what I said in my provisional decision. In light of the fact that it was 
accepted by both parties, I see no reason to change my mind. I said in my provisional 
decision that the vulnerable assist rate should apply from September 2019. But as 
Santander has said it wasnt available until 7 October 2019, I agree that is when the 
recalculation should begin.  
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that compensation of 
£1,000 in total  including what has already been paid  is appropriate.
Mr and Mrs B have now repaid their mortgage and sold the property. So Santander will need 
to refund the mortgage overpayments to them. For each month since 7 October 2019 it 
should calculate what Mr and Mrs B actually paid and what they should have paid  both in 
terms of the contractual payment and any agreed arrangement towards the arrears. 
It should then refund the difference to Mr and Mrs B, adding simple annual interest of 8% 
running from the date of that months payment to the date it pays the refund.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Re-calculate Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage as if it had been on the vulnerable assist rate 
from 7 October 2019 to the date the mortgage was redeemed;
Calculate the amount Mr and Mrs B overpaid each month as a result;
Refund each months overpayment to Mr and Mrs B, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from the date of each months overpayment to the date of refund;
Write to Mr and Mrs B setting out what it has done and the calculations it has made;
Increase the compensation paid to Mr and Mrs B to £1,000, including that already 
paid.* Santander UK Plc may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, if it considers 
it should do so. But it should give confirmation of the deduction to Mr and Mrs B so they can reclaim 
the tax from HRMC if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman