DRN-2453113
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr J are unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined their claim for damage to their
roof after the roofers they had employed abandoned the work, leaving a large hole in the
roof which allowed rain to come in and cause internal damage.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs C and Mr J were planning to extend their property. They were advised by their
architect to create additional storage in the roof space. In August 2019 they agreed with a
roofing company a price for the upgrading of their roof, which consisted of installing new felt,
soffits and gutters and new uprights in the roof space. The work began in September 2019
but was carried out in a haphazard manner and the roof was partially stripped. The company
abruptly left the property in mid-September 2019, leaving a gaping hole in the roof. Following
heavy rainfall, water penetrated the roof void and Mrs C and Mr J found that in addition to
the hole, the felting was not properly battened down.
The policy Mrs C and Mr J had with QIC covered them for damage caused by events like
storm but also for loss caused by renovations and the like. They made a claim to QIC for
storm damage and/or the damage caused by the abandonment of the work. They were
initially assured that their claim would be covered under the building works and/or
refurbishment cover in the policy. Some emergency repairs were carried out under the home
emergency cover in the policy. QIC sent a loss adjuster out to the property who inspected
the damage. Its conclusion was that the damage was caused by the poor workmanship and
so was excluded under the policy as defective design or workmanship.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that the damage caused to Mrs C 
and Mr Js property was covered by a term in the policy relating to building works and/or 
refurbishment cover. I said that it was unfair for QIC to apply the exclusion for defective 
maintenance or materials, design or workmanship, as it had done here. I said it should settle 
the claim and pay £100 compensation.
QIC accepted my decision. It said that it appears there was some miscommunication with 
the interpretation of the policy wording which ultimately caused the claim to be incorrectly 
declined.
Mrs C and Mr J accepted my decision overall, but said that £100 compensation wasnt 
sufficient. They also said there were more issues with the guttering and soffits and the 
battens which hadnt been fixed with galvanised nails.
.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ther following were my provisional findings:
I have considered whether storm damage applies in this case, as the property certainly was
damaged due to heavy rainfall after the roof was left with a hole in it. But I think that the main
term in the policy which applies to this case is Building works and/or refurbishment cover
which says:
We will pay up to a maximum of £50,000 in total for each incident of loss directly or
indirectly caused by or relating to restoration, repair, redecoration, maintenance or other
similar work.
That cover seems to me to be fairly comprehensive in respect of the damage caused during
the refurbishment work. It covers loss directly or indirectly caused by or relating to Here
Mrs C and Mr Js property was in the course being restored or repaired. The damage to the
roof appears to consist of the felting not being applied properly, and leaving a gaping hole
allowing water to penetrate the loft insulation which had become saturated. According to the
loss adjusters report the whole roof will have to be stripped back and the work redone.
So I think the actual damage both to the roof itself and to the interior was caused by the
refurbishment work, whether directly or indirectly. The point has been made that the policy
doesnt cover abandonment of the work. That is right but the damage was caused by the
work itself being carried out defectively or not being finished, both directly and indirectly.
It has been pointed out by QIC that there is an exclusion in the policy for:
Any damage caused by, or resulting from defective maintenance or materials, design or
workmanship. However, we do cover any resultant damage unless another exclusion
applies.
The resultant damage would in my view be covered anyway, that is the internal damage
following the rain coming in. Our approach is that we regard it as unfair if a policy term cant
effectively be applied because of an exclusion. Having looked at the term covering building
works and/or refurbishment, I cant envisage a situation where the damage caused by the
building work wasnt due to poor workmanship of some sort. I can see that accidental
damage or other terms in the policy might apply. But any damage caused directly or
indirectly by the building work set out in that term cant fairly in my view be excluded by the
defective workmanship term. So I dont think QIC should apply that exclusion in this case.
I appreciate that QIC may not have intended this result as a consequence of the wording of
the policy. I believe it intended it only to cover consequential loss. But the wording of the
term doesnt in my view say that. And where terms are unclear in a policy we say its fair to
apply the wording in favour of the policyholder.
My overall view is that QIC should be covering any damage caused, so if the roof needs to
be stripped back to repair the damage then it should do that. If there were parts of the work
that simply werent started e.g. the replacement of the guttering and soffits, then those parts
werent damaged and Mrs C and Mr J would need to pay for that work to be done.
QIC unfairly declined the claim (for the reasons Ive set out above), I accept this caused
Mrs C and Mr J inconvenience. Further I note that having decided the consequential damage
should be covered, QIC appeared to completely ignore that when advising Mrs C and Mr J of
its claim decision. I dont doubt this was frustrating.
I understand from Mrs C and Mr Js comments that the facias, soffits and guttering were all 
removed and caused water damage to the patio area. Secondly some facias were replaced 
by the original roofing company. However, another roofing company had stated that they 
were inadequately fitted to basic roofing standards and had to be replaced. They also said 
that the roof battens had been nailed down with non-galvanised nails, leading then to rust 
and the battens couldnt be reused.The policy term covers each incident of loss, so if the damage occurred as described all 
due to the one incident then QIC will be liable to replace the facias soffits and battens to 
carry out an effective repair. If Mrs C and Mr J have incurred costs putting things right that 
should be part of the claim.
On the question of compensation, Im satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable. I understand 
that Mrs C and Mr J were distressed by what happened but I think that was mainly caused 
by the way the roofing company treated them. My award is for upset caused by QICs 
failures.
Im satisfied with my provisional findings which are now final and form part of this final 
decision.  
Putting things right
QIC should settle the claim under the buildings and/or refurbishment cover without applying
the exclusion for defective workmanship by arranging to repair the roof and any damage
caused to the interior of the property, subject to the policys remaining terms and conditions
and my comments above.
QIC should also pay £100 compensation to Mrs C and Mr J to make up for the distress and
inconvenience it caused them.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to act in accordance with what I have set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman