DRN-2932658
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service Scottish Widows Limited provided in connection 
with his pension plan. 
What happened
Mr B has a pension plan with Scottish Widows, which he makes both regular and occasional, 
ad-hoc, payments into by buying investment units. On 2 February 2020 Mr B made an 
ad-hock transaction buying additional units.  
On 2 March 2020 he bought some more investment units at a cost of around £365 (net). 
Scottish Widows bank account cleared the payment the next day (3 March 2020) and 
completed the transaction on its system and dating it 3 March 2020. Scottish Widows later 
reported to Mr B that those pension units had been bought on 2 February 2020. He asked it 
to confirm the dates and price he had paid for the units. Scottish Widows answered his query 
on 12 March 2020 but gave Mr B inaccurate information concerning unit prices. It later sent 
the correct information to Mr B in a letter of 17 March 2020 but quoted the gross price of the 
transaction (around £457). 
Mr B complained both about the confusing information Scottish Widows provided and also 
about its delays. In its complaint responses sent between July and September 2020 Scottish 
Widows acknowledged it had made mistakes and typing errors. It also apologised for its 
delays, some of which it attributed to the pandemic. It paid Mr B compensation of £350 in 
total for the impact of its errors.
Mr B didnt think that went far enough. He initially said he thought that compensation of £500 
would be appropriate but later said he felt a sum of £1,000 was warranted. Scottish Widows 
didnt increase its compensation offer. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Scottish Widows needed to do anything else in response to the complaint. Mr B didnt agree 
so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Scottish Widows to take any further action.
In bringing this complaint Mr Bs made a number of points. And he's continued to raise 
issues with us concerning Scottish Widows service since the initial complaint he made to it. 
I've read everything on file. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and every point 
made. Instead I will focus on the outstanding points concerning the issues Mr B initially 
raised with Scottish Widows and which it addressed in its complaints responses between 
July and September 2020. So I don't intend to address any points about Scottish Widows 
service that Mr B has raised with us since then as those should be raised separately with 
Scottish Widows in the first instance. 
 
Scottish Widows has acknowledged that it didnt get everything right. It has attributed some 
of its mistakes to typing errors. I asked Scottish Widows if it could explain how the initial 
mix-up with the units bought on 3 March 2020 happened. In response it told me that Mr B 
had made single transactions (outside of his regular payments) on both 2 February 2020 as 
well as on 3 March 2020 (once the payment had cleared its system). Scottish Widows said it 
had mistakenly referred to the earlier date in February when it should have referred to the 
March date. But it couldnt explain the errors it had then made in its letter of 12 March 2020.
 
I can see why these errors confused Mr B and may have given him the impression that 
Scottish Widows wasn't appropriately managing his pension fund. And he was also 
concerned that he could potentially be losing out financially as a result. I note that Scottish 
Widows letter of 17 March 2020 was accurate about the units hed bought on 3 March 2020 
and the price hed paid for those. But it clearly wasnt helpful that it made the earlier 
mistakes which caused Mr B to be concerned that he might be losing out. It then delayed in 
replying to his concerns.
While Ive seen no evidence that Mr B did lose out financially as a result of Scottish Widows 
mistakes, I can understand why this was a cause of concern for him. For many people a 
pension is instrumental to providing for their retirement. So, Scottish Widows errors might 
have made Mr B doubt the accuracy of his pension fund value and also caused him to doubt 
whether or not it was being managed by a competent company. Mr Bs told us that because 
of the concerns these mistakes caused, it worsened some existing health conditions 
including anxiety. Clearly that could have been avoided if Scottish Widows hadnt made the 
mistakes that it did. 
To address that Scottish Widows has paid Mr B a total of £350 in compensation. Mr B 
doesn't think that's anything like enough. So Ive thought very carefully about whether or not 
it needs to increase that figure. 
In his correspondence with us Mr B referred to the number of hours hes spent dealing with 
the issue. But we don't award compensation for the time it might take a consumer to pursue 
their complaint. Nor is there a form of tariff or prescribed sum that we apply to particular 
cases or certain instances where things go wrong. 
Also, we dont make awards simply because theres been a mistake, mix-up or delay as not 
all of those things will have such an impact as to warrant compensation. Instead, when 
thinking about whether or not to award compensation, and if so how much, I look at the 
impact that a business mistakes have had on the person concerned and how thats affected 
their day-to-day life. And, while considering the individual circumstances of each case, I also 
look at the awards of compensation weve made in other cases of similar seriousness. 
In this case I've noted that Scottish Widows has confirmed that Mr B hasn't lost out 
financially. So he hasn't suffered any form of actual financial loss. And in other similar cases 
I might consider saying that in those circumstances compensation is not warranted, or that 
only a small monetary award is appropriate. But Mr B was clearly put to some trouble in 
order to satisfy himself that he wasnt losing out. And, as I've said above, I can understand 
that this did cause him some distress and inconvenience while he tried to sort things out.
I've also noted that in one of its complaint responses Scottish Widows gave Mr B the 
impression that the mistakes it made would stop it applying its account management 
charges. But Scottish Widows later confirmed to us that there was another typing error in its 
letter and that it had omitted the word not. So, what it had meant to say was that its 
charges do not stop simply because of errors on its behalf. That was a particularly 
unfortunate mistake given that the letter itself included an apology for other typing errors. 
That said, I wouldnt automatically expect a business to waive charges its customer had 
agreed to pay simply because it had made mistakes. Scottish Widows was still providing a 
service even if that service could have been better. But I've thought about whether this 
additional mistake should mean that Scottish Widows needs to pay more compensation. And 
having thought about this very carefully Im satisfied that the compensation Scottish Widows 
has already paid is reasonable in the circumstances. 
In coming to that conclusion I've thought about everything Mr Bs told us, including the 
impact the mistakes have had and that he thinks theyve made existing health conditions 
worse. I've also noted that Mr B thinks compensation of £1,000 is warranted. But I dont think 
an award of that amount would be fair or reasonable in these particular circumstances. 
Thats because I would usually only award compensation at that level where a business 
errors had caused substantial distress, upset or worry or perhaps serious offence and 
humiliation, which the consumer has endured over a sustained period. And while I don't wish 
to downplay what Mr B has told us about the impact of Scottish Widows mistakes, I don't 
think hes suffered distress and inconvenience at that sort of level. And when considering the 
seriousness of this specific case, I'm satisfied that the compensation of £350 which Scottish 
Widows has already paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Scottish Widows to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman