DRN-2218247
The complaint
This complaints about a further advance mortgage application Mr and Mrs G made to 
National Westminster Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy that NatWest wouldnt lend them the 
money they wanted for debt consolidation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with NatWest and wanted to borrow more money. They said 
they were going to use the money to pay off some of their other debts which would then 
reduce their outgoings. Because NatWest turned their application down they say they were 
forced to remortgage to a different lender which meant they incurred an early repayment 
charge (ERC) on their NatWest mortgage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the application failed NatWests 
internal credit score, and the ERC was correctly charged. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel NatWest treated them unfairly. But its not my role to tell 
lenders how much money - if any - to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend. My role is to ensure 
such judgement is applied fairly; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks. In this 
case, NatWest applied its lending rules to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G have said their application was turned down because theyd recently taken out 
a personal loan with NatWest, and that when they took out the loan NatWest knew they 
intended to apply for a consolidation further advance soon after. Ive considered this point 
carefully but whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Gs belief that the only reason their application 
was turned down was due to the personal loan, thats not right.
I understand Mr and Mrs G are concerned that NatWest hasnt been able to provide the calls 
with the various staff members as they think those calls will support their case. NatWest has 
confirmed that its not a case of not providing call recordings, it is that these calls werent 
recorded as they were calls with branch staff. Theres no regulatory requirement for NatWest 
to record those calls so I cant find against it on that basis. NatWest had no reason to record 
the calls, just as Mr and Mrs G equally had no reason to either.
Ive listened carefully to the call Mr G had with our investigator and compared this to an 
email he sent us and unfortunately his recollections of events are conflicting. I cant name 
the staff members that Mr G dealt with for the same reason Im not using Mr and Mrs Gs full 
name, so Ill refer to each of them by their initial.
In his email Mr G said hed spoken to M in early May 2019 and J in the middle of May 2019. 
He also said that M had told him he should leave existing credit card debts on high interest 
rates.
But in his call with our investigator Mr G said hed spoken with M in March, J in April and 
then J again in May, and that it was J (in April) whod told him he should leave the credit 
cards debts on high interest rates.
Mr G has also said he was told by all the staff members that there would be no problem with 
the debt consolidation. But in the call with our investigator the language Mr G used was less 
certain, saying:
P said words to the effect it should be fine.
M said it shouldnt make any difference.
When he was applying for the personal loan in branch he asked do you think this is 
likely to affect me with regards to my remortgage? To which the adviser replied no no 
no, no no no, it should be fine if thats what youve been told.
That language is very different from the certainties Mr and Mrs G had previously told us of 
and are more in line with what Id expect to hear. The staff members involved had no reason 
to believe there would be a problem, and taking the personal loan  in itself  wouldnt cause 
a mortgage to be declined, so those reassurances are truthful. But should be fine is a long 
way away from any guarantee and no lending request is ever guaranteed to be accepted.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs G are the ones bringing the 
complaint against NatWest, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Gs version needs to be 
more likely than NatWests version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant 
say Mr and Mrs Gs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold their complaint.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G were turned down for their further advance but Im 
satisfied that wasnt due to any error by NatWest, and Im also satisfied the staff members 
Mr and Mrs G had spoken to in the lead up to their application hadnt guaranteed it would be 
successful.
I understand Mr and Mrs G feel NatWest was wrong (whether that was M or J) to tell them 
not to move their credit cards onto 0% interest rates otherwise they couldnt be consolidated. 
They say their new lender had no problem with it. But each lender has its own lending policy, 
and NatWests policy is that it wont consolidate 0% interest debts onto a mortgage. Thats a 
commercial decision it has made and it isnt unusual in the mortgage market even if 
Mr and Mrs Gs new lender doesnt have the same policy. As M or J gave the right 
information about the credit cards, and at that time had no reason to believe the further 
advance application would be declined, then I cant hold NatWest liable for the interest that 
was charged on the credit card debts.
When deciding whether to lend more money, lenders look at all the information about a 
consumer and decide if its willing to grant the mortgage by reference to its lending criteria. 
Just because a different lender was willing to lend more money to Mr and Mrs G doesnt 
mean NatWest was wrong to turn their application down.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman