DRN-4373099
The complaint
Mr A has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) continued to charge him for an 
Advance Account and Insurance Aspects after hed paid of his mortgage in August 2017.
Mr A believes that HSBC shouldve contacted him after hed repaid his mortgage to see if he 
still needed the account and Insurance Aspects package.
Mr A has also said that HSBC had misrepresented the benefits and had mis-sold the 
account(s).
What happened
I issued a decision on 28 September 2023 explaining why our service is unable to consider 
Mr As complaint about the sale of the Advance account and the Insurance Aspect package 
that was later added to Mr As account. 
I did however say that our service is able to consider Mr As complaint  that he says HSBC 
shouldve checked whether he still wanted the Insurance Aspects package once he repaid 
his mortgage in 2017.
One of our Investigators has already assessed the part of Mr As complaint that our service 
can consider, and she didnt think that HSBC had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr A disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter was referred (again) for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mr A says that HSBC shouldve checked with him whether he wanted to keep his Insurance 
Aspects package when he repaid his mortgage in 2017. Mr A says that it was obsolete once 
hed repaid his mortgage. 
The Insurance Aspects package is a separate product to Mr As mortgage. So, I cant see 
why HSBC shouldve specifically checked if Mr A still needed a package of insurance 
benefits - such as travel insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover - because 
he had repaid his mortgage. 
Furthermore, as these benefits were unrelated to Mr As mortgage, I cant see why Mr A 
paying off his mortgage meant that these benefits were suddenly obsolete. Mr A was still 
covered by the travel insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover, regardless 
of whether he had a mortgage with HSBC or not.
From what I can see, Mr A was aware he had the Insurance Aspects package. Therefore, if 
it was the case that he didnt want to keep paying for the Insurance Aspects package, or no 
longer needed the various benefits it provided, it was up to him to cancel it.
What HSBC was required to do however, was to send out Annual Eligibility Statements 
(AES) each year to Mr A. The purpose of an AES is to remind Mr A about the insurance 
products included with the package; what the eligibility criteria and key exclusions are; and 
invite Mr A to consider whether he still needed them. 
HSBC has provided copies of AES sent to Mr A. They were sent every December since at 
least 2016, and they look to have been sent to the correct address for Mr A. So I think they 
were likely to have been received by him.
So going on the evidence I have been provided with, I think that HSBC did what it was 
required to do to remind Mr A about his Insurance Aspects package. 
I therefore cant reasonably say that HSBC did something wrong or had acted unfairly, just 
because it didnt check with Mr A whether he still wanted the Insurance Aspects package 
once hed repaid his mortgage.
Finally, I understand that Mr A still has the Insurance Aspects package on his account. Im 
not sure why he still has it if he doesnt want it - given that HSBC told Mr A how he could 
remove it from his account in its final response letter issued in 2015 and again in an email 
dated 13 January 2023. So, If Mr A wishes to remove the Insurance Aspects package from 
his account, he will need to contact HSBC to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman