DRN-3540579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage they held with The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). The complaint encompasses various issues, but at its 
heart it relates to the repossession and sale of the property following the mortgage term 
ending in September 2015.
What happened
I wont set out the full background to this complaint in detail as it is extensive and goes back 
many years, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has been said 
and provided.
Mr and Mrs R took the BTL mortgage in question out in 2005 on an interest-only basis over a 
10-year term.
The term ended in September 2015 and RBS extended it until March 2016. Since then the 
parties have been in contact about how the mortgage will be redeemed, but there were legal 
issues with the property which Mr and Mrs R say rendered it unsaleable.
RBS obtained a possession order in September 2018 which was suspended for 84 days to 
allow Mr and Mrs R time to renovate the property for sale, on the understanding if significant 
progress had been made but more time was needed then it could be reviewed at that point.
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs R contacted RBS. They said theyd been unable to renovate 
the property to the standard needed as it had deteriorated so much. They said it would cost 
over £30,000 to put right, and a builder had agreed to do the work and just receive payment 
on sale if a second charge could be put on the property. They said the work would take 
about eight weeks and then it could be marketed for sale. Mr and Mrs R said If the bank 
feels it cannot accede to our reasonable requests, then unless there is another way that I am 
not aware of, the bank will have to take possession and dispose of the property which in all 
probability may not sell for enough to clear the mortgage debt in its current state. RBS 
turned down the request.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs R said they had arranged an open day for the property. Following 
this they have said they received an offer of £140,000 from a cash buyer, and the notes 
indicate they said the sale would complete in 28 days. The memorandum of sale gave an 
expected completion date of 19 April 2019.
As the sale still hadnt exchanged contracts, RBS took the property into possession in 
October 2019.
The property was put on the market in November 2019 and an offer of £110,000 was 
accepted in February 2020. The sale exchanged and completed in May 2020.
Mr and Mrs R complained to RBS. It didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, although 
it did acknowledge that it hadnt responded to Mr and Mrs R in May when it should.
The complaint was looked at by two of our investigators, neither of which upheld the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
When selling a property in possession, RBS is required to get independent valuations and 
use them as a guide when marketing the property. Thats what it did. It relied on the opinions 
of qualified professionals who gave valuations of £90,000 and £100,000. I dont think it did 
anything wrong here. 
RBS doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
The valuation report and marketing opinion of the property noted there were various other 
issues that would negatively impact on its saleability and value. They noted that the property 
was unlikely to be readily mortgageable with a short lease and was in incredibly poor 
condition both externally and internally.
A lender in possession should get the best price it can. But it shouldnt hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while interest on the debt continues to have to be paid by the 
borrower. That isnt always an easy balance to strike, but I dont think RBS got it wrong in 
this case. Having considered everything I dont agree that RBS sold the property for less 
than it was worth, nor do I think it held onto it for longer than it should to try to achieve that 
price.
There was a fair amount of interest, but most werent proceedable or were withdrawn. A 
property is only worth what a person is willing to pay for it, and the best offer RBS received 
was for £110,000 which completed. Whilst Mr and Mrs R may feel that was less than it was 
worth, the potential buyers didnt agree otherwise there would have been higher offers.
Mr and Mrs R have said that the estate agent refused viewings, saying the property had 
already been sold at a time when contracts hadnt been exchanged. 
We cant comment on any alleged acts or omissions by any business other than RBS. This 
means we cant consider Mr and Mrs Rs complaint that potential viewings were turned down 
(or that buyers were put off by the estate agent) as that was the responsibility of the estate 
agent selling the property, not RBS. RBS was entitled to rely on the information from the 
estate agent that the property was still on the market, and therefore viewings were being 
undertaken. 
Mr and Mrs R have made somewhat conflicting arguments, saying both that RBS should 
have taken action sooner so they werent making the interest payments over so many years, 
but also that RBS should have held off to allow them to sell the property themselves.Having considered everything I dont think RBS got its timing wrong here. Due to the 
information it received from Mr and Mrs R about the legal issues with the property it held off 
taking action to allow them time to resolve that and repay the mortgage (either by refinancing 
it, or through a sale). At the point the suspended possession order was granted RBS had 
given Mr and Mrs R an additional three years from the original term end date. But as no 
progress seemed to be being made RBS decided not to wait any longer, and that seems to 
be a reasonable decision for it to have made at the time.
In any event, the court granted a possession order in September 2018 and that order was 
granted after both sides had submitted their arguments. I cant overrule or interfere with a 
decision made by a court so Im unable to comment on whether or not it was fair for RBS to 
take matters to court in 2018 as the court has already ruled that possession could be sought 
at that time.
Despite receiving that possession order in September 2018 which gave Mr and Mrs R until 
the end of November 2018, RBS still allowed Mr and Mrs R another eleven months with it 
only taking possession of the property in October 2019.
Mr and Mrs R have said they were told RBS wouldnt take possession of the property whilst 
they were trying to sell it and there was no time limit put on that. I can see that RBS was told 
the sale agreed in March 2019 would complete in April 2019, so it seems likely it didnt feel 
the need to put a time limit on that as it had no reason to believe that wouldnt happen. But 
as the months went on with no exchange of contracts for the sale being made it doesnt 
seem unreasonable for RBS to not be willing to wait any longer. A lender doesnt have to 
wait indefinitely and even if a time limit isnt placed on a sale by a lender, seven months for a 
cash buyer to complete a purchase is more than enough time and so I dont think RBS acted 
inappropriately in not wanting to wait any longer.
In any event, even though the property had been taken into possession RBS was still willing 
to allow Mr and Mrs R to complete their own sale if they could. But it still hadnt completed in 
May 2020 (over a year since the cash offer was accepted and it was confirmed to be a 
28 day completion timescale), by which time RBS had decided to proceed to exchange 
contracts with the cash buyer it had found (for which the offer had been accepted in 
February 2020, not December 2019 as Mr and Mrs R have said). 
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs R said their buyer pulled out due to the repossession and 
advertising that an offer had been made for £110,000 (against the £140,000 theyd agreed to 
pay). I cant hold RBS liable for that as it is a process it has to follow for repossession sales, 
and by then it had been over a year since Mr and Mrs Rs buyers offer had been made 
without contracts being exchanged.
Mr and Mrs R said that RBS should have put the property to auction as they say the person 
who bought it, put it in an auction within weeks and achieved around £40,000 more than 
theyd paid for it. I cant decide a case using hindsight, and that is what Id be doing if I were 
to say RBS should have auctioned the property as that would have achieved a higher price.
Selling a property at auction is a risk as the sale price is dependent on what potential buyers 
are bidding that day. The buyer re-sold the property for £40,000 more than theyd paid for it, 
but equally they risked not achieving a price even equivalent to what theyd paid.
Because the property remained unsold, on 30 January 2020 RBS obtained an appraisal from 
the same auction company that later sold the property on for £40,000 more than the buyer 
had paid for it.That auction company said:
Given market conditions at the date of this report we believe the property has the potential 
auction sale price in the range of:
£90,000 - £100,000
It went on to say that to achieve that it recommended placing a guide price of £82,000 and a 
reserve in the region of £90,000. So it seems even the company that later sold it on for 
around £150,000 didnt think that was a likely price for it to achieve just four months earlier.
As an offer of £110,000 from a proceedable cash buyer was received a week or so later it 
seems RBS wasnt unreasonable to proceed with that, rather than risk taking it to auction for 
a price that was predicted to be lower.
Mr and Mrs R have commented on information that was recorded on their credit files. The 
mortgage term ended in March 2016 (following a short, agreed extension from September 
2015) and at that point the total debt became due. When that wasnt paid Mr and Mrs R 
breached the mortgage agreement. It is quite normal for a mortgage account to be marked 
as in default at the date the property is taken into possession, and then as satisfied when the 
property is sold. Placing that information on Mr and Mrs Rs credit file wasnt a spiteful act as 
Mr and Mrs R have claimed, instead it was a factual notice and in line with normal industry 
practice.
Finally, Mr and Mrs R said that a company acting for RBS tried to take possession of Mr Rs 
parents home which was listed as Mr and Mrs Rs correspondence address. 
I can reassure Mr and Mrs R that no-one was ever trying to take possession of the other 
property. There was a visit to the other property by a field agent who was trying to make 
contact with Mr and Mrs R, and it seems there was confusion with the field agent believing 
that was the mortgaged property. But both Mr and Mrs R and Mr Rs parents would surely 
have been aware that was a mistake as theyd have known the property in question was 
Mr and Mrs Rs BTL property, not Mr Rs parents home. 
At no time was there any risk to Mr Rs parents property, and it was simply an administrative 
error which led to the field agent believing that was the mortgaged property, rather than just 
Mr and Mrs Rs correspondence address. RBS wasnt trying to repossess the other property.
In any event, I can only consider this complaint in respect of Mr and Mrs R as they were 
RBS customers here. I cant consider any impact on any other person  including Mr Rs 
parents  as they arent eligible complainants under our rules, which I must follow.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman