DRN-3904259
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage held by the estate of Mrs D holds with 
Santander UK Plc. It was taken out in 1990, by Mrs D and her husband who died before she 
did. The original lender was a building society Ill call A, which later became part of 
Santander. The complaint, which has been made by Mrs Ds daughter Mrs R in her capacity 
as executor of Mrs Ds estate, is that the mortgage should not have granted, chiefly because 
the property shares a driveway with the adjoining property. Mrs R is also unhappy that 
Santander wouldnt accept £80,000 in full and final settlement of the mortgage debt, which is 
around £126,000.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision, dated 3 January 2023 respectively, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs R and Santander, and 
not in dispute. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the 
main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
When Mrs D died, Mrs R was appointed executor of her mothers estate. She and her 
husband, and later a further family member, applied to take over the mortgage, as 
they wanted the property to remain in the family. Santander turned them down, due 
to concerns it had over access to the property via a driveway shared by the adjoining 
property, which was owned by Mrs and Mr R. They then offered Santander £80,000 
in settlement of the mortgage debt, which it also refused.
When Mrs R contacted us, two discrete complaints were set up; one was to address 
Santanders treatment of the new mortgage application she and her family had made 
to take out a mortgage to buy the property from the estate. That case has been 
decided by a fellow ombudsman.
Im not revisiting that complaint in any way; Ive mentioned it merely for background 
and to provide context to the complaint I am dealing with. That is, that if the shared 
access renders the property unacceptable as security for a mortgage now, it follows 
that the original mortgage from 1990 shouldnt have been granted either. Mrs R says 
the 1990 lending decision left the estate with a landlocked asset than cant be sold or 
re-mortgaged.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our investigators initial view of 
the case dealt with the 1990 lending decision, but not with Santanders refusal of the 
short settlement offer to repay the mortgage. By issuing a provisional decision to 
cover both issues, Im giving both parties the opportunity to comment before I finalise 
my decision.
I start with the lending decision 1990. This issue for me to consider arises from the 
reason Santander rejected the application to take over the original mortgage. Mrs R 
argues that if the access issue renders the property unacceptable as security for a 
mortgage, it should also have done so in 1990. However, the point is a little more 
nuanced than that, and the two sets of circumstances are easily distinguishable. 
It wasnt the fact of the shared access that drove Santanders decision not to grant 
the mortgage transfer. Rather, it was that if it had granted the transfer, both 
properties that shared the access would be then owned and controlled by the same 
parties. That wasnt a factor in 1990, and wouldnt be in future if the property were 
sold to another party. So I cant fairly conclude that the original lending decision from 
1990 is somehow de-legitimised by what has happened since Mrs D died and her 
family sought to buy the mortgaged property. 
That brings me to the offer Mrs R made to settle the mortgage debt. The offer was 
£80,000, against an outstanding debt of around £126,000. The money was lent in 
good faith, and Santander has a reasonable expectation to be repaid in full. The 
estate has the means to do so, by way of selling the mortgaged property. Santander 
isnt required to accept less than the full debt, simply because Mrs R and family wish 
to retain the property and are unable to settle the mortgage in full. 
I gave the parties two weeks to respond to the provisional decision; that time has passed. 
Weve heard from Mrs R, but not from Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I havent changed my mind that the complaint shouldnt be upheld in Mrs and Mr Ps favour. 
Ill explain why.
Mrs R maintains there arent any access issues, and has verified this with Land Registry. If I 
take on face value that she is right, then it follows that the access question wont have been 
a reason not to grant the 1990 mortgage. Mrs Rs underlying grievance is that the access 
question was given, wrongly in her view, as the reason for the new application But that complaint has already been decided by my ombudsman colleague, and Im not revisiting it 
here. 
As I set out in the provisional decision, the circumstances that led to the recent application 
being rejected are different from those that existed in 1990, when the original mortgage was 
granted. So all I can do is reiterate that the original lending decision from 1990 is not 
de-legitimised by what has happened since Mrs D died and her family sought to buy the 
mortgaged property from the estate.
Mrs R now says she thinks the 1990 mortgage was unaffordable. Thats a new issued thats 
not been raised previously, so Santander will need to address it first. Thats a prerequisite to 
us looking into a complaint, so if Mrs R wishes to pursue the affordability of the 1990 
mortgage, shell need to take it up with Santander. If she does, and isnt happy with the 
response, then she can refer it to this service where we will first consider whether the 
complaint is one that fall within our rules; in particular, the rules covering time limits.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman