DRN-3041436
The complaint
Mrs M complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.  
What happened
In October 2017 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with PSA. At 
the point of supply, the car was around 2 years old and had covered 40,139 miles. 
In February 2021, Mrs M voluntary terminated the agreement. The car was inspected before 
it was collected. PSA invoiced Mrs M for damage charges totalling £1,217.32. The charges 
included a charge for a missing service history and a charge for holed in the carpet.
Mrs M disputed the charges. PSA removed £528 of charges for bodywork but wouldnt 
remove the charge for the missing service or the holes in the carpet. Mrs M wasnt happy 
about this and brought her complaint to this service. She says she now accepts the charge 
for the missing service, but she continues to dispute the charge for the holes in the carpet.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that because of the age and mileage of the 
car at the point of supply, it was more likely than not that the car would have some wear and 
tear and that it was unlikely that the holes in the carpet were caused whilst the car was in 
Mrs Ms possession as shed only covered very limited mileage. The investigator said PSA 
should refund the charge for the damage to the carpet.
PSA didnt agree. It said there was no evidence to suggest that the damage to the carpet 
was present at the point of supply. It said that if it had been present at the point of supply, it 
would have expected Mrs M to raise this as an issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs M must return the car in good 
condition and that any missing items or damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Mrs M accepts the missing service charges. So, Ive focussed on the damage to the carpet. 
The BVLRA guidelines say that carpets shouldnt have tears, cuts or holes.
Mrs M doesnt dispute that there are holes in the carpet. But she says that when she 
purchased the car, it was supplied with new mats an she never thought to check underneath 
them. She also says the mats were still in the car when she returned it, and that the mats 
didnt have any holes, so she doesnt accept that the holes in the carpet were due to wear 
and tear caused by her.
This service has asked the supplying dealer whether the damage to the carpet was present 
at the point of supply. The dealer said it didnt hold any details or photos of the car at the 
point of supply.
In the circumstances, I need to decide whats most likely to have happened, on the balance 
of probabilities. The car was second hand when it was supplied, so Id expect it to have a 
degree of wear and tear. Neither PSA nor the dealer have disputed Mrs Ms statement that 
she was supplied with new mats at the point of supply. I dont think there would be any need 
to supply new mats unless the old mats or the carpet underneath were damaged. So, it 
seems more likely than not that there was some damage to the carpet at the point of supply.
PSA has said that if there had been damage to the carpet at the point of supply, Mrs M 
would have reported it. But Mrs M has said that the new mats were already in the car when it 
was supplied and I accept her testimony that she didnt have a reason to lift up the new mats 
to check underneath.
Ive taken into account that Mrs M only travelled around 13,600 miles in the car in the 3  
years the car was in her possession. Such limited use of the car makes it unlikely that the 
damage to the carpet could have occurred during the time Mrs M had the car.
On balance, I think its more likely that there damage to the carpet was present at the point 
of supply.   
Putting things right
To put things right, PSA should refund the charges for the danged carpet.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must refund the 
charges for the damage to the carpet.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman