DRN-2733494
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC closed her bank account and placed a fraud marker 
against her name.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss A received a payment into her Metro account for £3,500. A few 
months after the payment being made, Metro received notification from the originating bank 
that the funds were paid into Miss As account as a result of fraud.
Metro wrote to Miss A and informed her it was closing her account in seven days. It also 
loaded a Cifas marker against her name due to the activity reported.
Miss A later discovered the marker as it was impacting her ability to obtain other financial 
products, so she made a complaint to Metro.
Metro didnt think itd acted incorrectly. It pointed out that Miss A had received funds into her 
account that were reported as originating from fraud. It said that itd closed the account in 
line with its terms and conditions and had clear evidence to support the loading of the Cifas 
marker.
Miss A remained unhappy with Metros response, so she came to our service to look into the 
matter again. She told our service that a friend of hers had been in contact and asked if she 
could pay her wages into Miss As account. She told Miss A that she was experiencing 
domestic abuse and didnt want her partner to have access to her funds. Therefore, Miss A 
felt shed been a victim herself.
An Investigator looked at the evidence provided by both parties but didnt think Metro had 
made an error. She pointed out that Metro had closed the account in line with its terms and 
conditions. She also felt that Miss A was unable to support her testimony with evidence. She 
concluded that Metro had acted correctly in applying the Cifas marker.
Miss A disagreed with the Investigators assessment. She maintained that she was a victim 
of fraud rather than a knowing participant of the laundering of funds.
As Miss A didnt agree with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Metro has highlighted that it correctly closed the account in line with its terms and conditions. 
These terms state that Metro can close a customers account if there has been fraud or 
other suspicious activity involving your account.
The terms also state that Metro can close the account immediately but will try to reduce the 
inconvenience caused to the customer if reasonable.
Here, Metro received reports that Miss As account was being used to receive funds that had 
originated from fraud. This posed a significant risk to the bank of further fraudulent activity 
and I therefore find it reasonable that it gave Miss A seven days to rearrange her financial 
affairs prior to it terminating the account. 
Cifas loading
While a business is a member of Cifas, that business must operate within the terms of its 
guidance and requirements. Metro can only record information with Cifas if its supported by 
evidence and meets a certain burden of proof. These set out the following requirements:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence is clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Broadly speaking, this means that Metro cant apply a Cifas marker if it merely suspects a 
fraud or financial crime. It needs to have sufficient evidence to back up what its alleging and 
that the customer its making the report against likely had knowledge of, or involvement in, 
that act.
Here, Miss A received funds into her account that were confirmed by an established third-
party bank to have originated from fraud. The bank reported the funds as second 
generation, meaning that they didnt enter Miss As account directly from their source, but 
were transferred to Miss As account from someone who did receive the funds from the 
victim.
Transferring funds to numerous accounts following the initial fraud is commonly referred to 
as money laundering. There are however times where unsuspecting victims are utilised to 
transfer funds through their account or receive money unknowingly from fraud for goods and 
services provided. This is particularly common in second generation recipients and therefore 
presents a challenge when associating the activity to the original act.
Miss A claims that she is a victim of fraud herself. Shes pointed out that a friend of whom 
shed known for a few years asked her for help. Theyd told her they were a victim of 
domestic abuse and didnt want their partner to get at their wages. So, they asked Miss A to 
receive the funds into her account and withdraw them in cash for them. Miss A claims that 
following discovery of the funds originating from fraud, the friend blocked her; and shes not 
been able to communicate with them since.
When asked for evidence to support her claims, Miss A was unable to provide any 
correspondences between her and the friend she helped. She says that messages were 
exchanged between her and her friend. But the device these messages were contained on 
was broken. Miss A says that her messages couldnt be recovered on a new device as she 
changed her number. She also attempted to access the messages from her old device after 
having it repaired, but again, couldnt recover the messages.
While I have no reason to disbelieve Miss As reasons for no longer having these messages, 
it does mean that her testimony cant be corroborated by any supporting evidence. 
Due to the above, Ive weighed up other factors surrounding the circumstances of this 
complaint to make a finding on what I think is more likely than not to have occurred. Having done so, there are a number of other factors Ive considered:
Miss A had received another payment of £3,500 twelve days prior from the same 
account where the fraudulent funds originated. There were no suspicions raised 
regarding this transfer and Miss A withdrew the full amount via a cash withdrawal the 
following day at a Metro branch. Miss A claims that this payment also originated from 
her friend for the same reasons.
Miss A received the fraudulent funds (a further £3,500) on 23 October 2019 and on 
the same day transferred £3,490 to another account she held with a third-party bank. 
Miss A then withdrew £3400 from her account held with the third-party bank, 
transferred the remaining £90 back to her Metro account and withdrew this via a cash 
withdrawal. When asked why shed done this, Miss A couldnt provide any 
reasonable explanation for the unusual manner in which shed handled the funds.  
Miss A has explained that she transferred the funds to her other account as this bank 
was more accessible than her nearest Metro branch. But she cant explain the 
reasons why she withdrew less money than that sent to her and then returned the 
remaining funds to her Metro account.
Miss A says that she knew her friend for close to three years and had met her 
through work. When challenged on some of the unusual features of these 
paymentssuch as wages being paid from a named person rather than from an 
employer and circa £7000 being paid to her in a few weeks via two payments
Miss A says that she didnt check the details of the payments. She also says that at 
the point she transferred the funds, her friend was no longer working for the employer 
where theyd both met. 
Miss A has confirmed that she hasnt reported the matter to police despite knowing 
sufficient information regarding the person responsible. When asked about this, 
Miss A told our service that she wanted to see the outcome of her complaint before 
pursuing things with the police. She also highlighted that she didnt trust the police 
due to cultural reasons and personal experiences.
I cant know for sure what occurred, but the combined factors above persuade me that the 
Cifas marker is fairly loaded against Miss A.
Miss A has received funds into her account that have originated from fraud. Shes been 
unable to provide any corroborative evidence to support her testimony that she was an 
innocent party in the transfer of funds and was unaware of their origins. I also find that there 
is added weight to this argument from the suspicious circumstances around the movement 
of the money, the fact that not all funds have been removed from the account and the lack of 
any reporting to law enforcement. 
While I acknowledge Metro could have done more to investigate the wider circumstances of 
the payment and given Miss A a chance to defend her position, I find that had it done so, the 
marker would have achieved the burden of proof required. Therefore, I wont be asking 
Metro to remove the marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman