DRN-3187901
The complaint
Mr S complains that IG Index Limited automatically rolled over two spread bets in WTI Oil he 
had opened without him being aware of it. As a result, two new positions were opened 
without his agreement and this caused him a financial loss. He also complains that he was 
given wrong information about what had happened. Mr S has claimed compensation for the 
losses he suffered from the position, and for being unable to open more profitable trades.  
What happened
In May 2020 Mr S had two short spreadbets on WTI Oil  US Crude. Hed opened one on 
4 May 2020 and the other on 12 May 2020. IGs terms and product details meant that 
spreadbets that were capable of being rolled over would automatically do so on the day 
before the last dealing day, unless they were manually closed (or otherwise agreed with IG). 
As Mr S had not closed these positions himself, they were closed for him on 15 May and 
immediately rolled over into two new short positions with a 19 June 2020 expiry. The last 
dealing day for this instrument was 18 May 2020, a Monday, so 15 May was the last working 
day before that. When the positions were closed on 15 May 2020, they had accrued 
unrealised losses of just over £6,300.
Mr S emailed IG on 15 May 2020 (a Friday) and complained about the closure of his 
positions and opening of two new ones. He didnt receive a reply and he emailed IG again 
on the Monday, complaining that hed been unable to place any new trades which he said 
wouldve been profit-making. He had not closed the two new positions which had been 
opened. 
He received an initial reply on 18 May which suggested that IG had suffered a system error 
over the weekend, and this had caused some positions not to show on client accounts 
despite being opened. Mr S replied saying that he remained unhappy, because the short 
positions that had been opened without his agreement had now resulted in a large loss  
when he had actually intended on opening long positions that morning. 
On 19 May Mr S received another reply from IG  this explained that his account was not in 
fact affected by the system error as he had previously been told. Instead, the positions he 
held had been rolled over as per the terms  this meant IG had closed the old trades and 
reopened new ones. 
Some further correspondence followed and Mr S complained. IG looked into his complaint 
but didnt think, overall, that it had done anything wrong. In short, it said that the terms, 
website and product details were clear about automatic rollovers and when they would 
happen. 
And it said that, in any event, Mr S couldve closed the two new short positions as soon as 
he saw them, but he chose not to. 
It agreed that he was given wrong information on 18 May, and offered him just under £1,000 
as a gesture of goodwill  this being the additional losses his positions incurred between 
18 May when he was given wrong information and 19 May when this was corrected. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered that taking all the information available to Mr S into account, he ought to have 
known that if he didnt close his positions theyd be rolled over. He acknowledged that Mr S 
had waited over the weekend for a response to his query, but he considered that it wouldve 
been reasonable for Mr S to have telephoned given his concerns. He agreed that IG had 
sent Mr S wrong information initially, but he considered that IGs offer to put that right was 
fair given the circumstances. He didnt agree Mr S should be refunded all the losses he 
incurred. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary, he considered the information about rollovers wasnt clear, 
and he felt some of it was misleading. He disputed ever having access to the key information 
document or additional information on the deal ticket before opening his trades, and so was 
unaware that his trades would be subject to an automatic rollover. He also said that he had 
been prevented from opening profitable trades. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can see that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and he has made detailed submissions 
in support of it. But I hope he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be addressing all 
the submissions he has made individually. This is because the purpose of his decision is to 
address what I consider the key elements of the complaint and provide reasons for my 
findings. In addition, I consider the investigator has clearly addressed the areas of customer 
service which Mr S has initially raised, and I dont consider it necessary to essentially repeat 
whats already been said. 
In my view, the key issues in this complaint are whether it was wrong for IG to automatically 
rollover Mr Ss trade and whether the subsequent email he received from IG containing 
incorrect information caused him additional losses for which he should be compensated. 
In terms of the rollover information, Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the 
investigator has already said. On the main page on IGs website which outlines IGs 
commodities spread bet product details it clearly explains, in the table notes section, that 
For all commodity quarterly bets, unless expressly agreed otherwise with IG, positions will 
be rolled over to a later date by default. IG was entitled to assume that Mr S, before opening 
any trades, would satisfy himself that he fully understood and was aware of all the elements 
of the product he was trading. And therefore, it was entitled to assume that Mr S wouldve 
navigated to this page and ensured he had read all the information therein. 
I acknowledge Mr Ss point that IG makes reference to quarterly bets  and I agree that 
could be clearer. But Im not persuaded that renders this portion of IGs website misleading. 
I say this because Im satisfied the terms of his account are clear that positions which are 
capable of being rolled over will be rolled over automatically unless expressly agreed (clause 
5). And the evidence Ive seen demonstrates that upon opening a position, sufficient information 
was accessible to Mr S to allow him to determine what would happen should he not 
manually close his trade. In particular, the summary of the position refers Mr S to the 
position being closed the day before last dealing day. And at the top of the screen a link 
was available to the Key Information Document  spread bet on a commodity. This 
document specifically said that:
In the case of futures spread bets, transactions will be automatically rolled over into the next 
period [] unless you opt out. 
I acknowledge Mr S disputes that this information was available to him, but Im not 
persuaded by the evidence he has provided. For example the key information document is 
dated January 2020 and Im persuaded it wouldve been accessible to Mr S at the time he 
opened his trade. 
As such, and given all this information, Im persuaded Mr S had opportunities, before the 
expiry of his position, to be aware it would be automatically rolled over. At the very least, if 
despite all this information Mr S still wasnt sure, he shouldve sought to clarify his 
understanding before opening the trade. This means that Im satisfied IG didnt treat Mr S 
unfairly by automatically rolling over his position. 
However, Mr S doesnt seem to dispute that he wanted those trades to close  they were 
short positions which his emails to IG at the time indicate he didnt want. So Im not 
persuaded the automatic rollover, even if I thought Mr S was justified in not expecting it, 
actually caused Mr S a financial loss. What it did was crystallise a loss which Mr S had 
already incurred by virtue of being short when the price of WTI was rising. 
The next question is therefore what happened after his position was rolled over and he saw 
a new position opened in the next months futures contract. 
I should say firstly that Im not persuaded emailing IG was reasonable given the issue Mr S 
was experiencing. I dont agree that it was reasonable for him to expect as quick a reply to 
his email as he wouldve received by calling  and so I make no particular finding around the 
fact that he received a response to his email on the following Monday. 
At this point I think I should also make clear that Mr S was under an obligation to mitigate his 
losses. Its clear from Mr Ss complaint and his correspondence that he did not want the new 
positions opened  this means that his primary complaint was being unable to close his 
previous trade at a time of his choosing because it had been closed for him. Given these 
circumstances, Mr S ought to have immediately closed the new positions as soon as he 
discovered they had been opened  and this was on the Friday. I dont agree it was 
reasonable for him to wait for a response from IG before deciding to close those trades and I 
can see no particular justification for why he felt he needed to do so. 
Ultimately, the existing positions he says he didnt know would be rolled over were short  
and loss-making. The new positions were also short. It seems clear to me therefore that if 
Mr Ss view of the market, as he says in some of his emails to IG, was that he should be 
long, he ought to have immediately closed those existing short positions and opened new 
ones that were in line with his view of the market. 
It therefore follows that whilst it is common ground that Mr S received incorrect information initially about what had happened, Im not persuaded he placed any reliance on that 
information. These new trades had been open for two days by this point. And even when he 
received the correct response from IG which explained the automatic rollover, he still didnt 
proceed to close the open positions he had. In other words, the incorrect information he 
received was unhelpful and evidently served to further confuse matters. But it didnt change 
or alter what Mr S clearly knew (and what he said in response to that incorrect information)  
namely that he had two short positions that he didnt want. On that basis, whilst I 
acknowledge IG offered to compensate Mr S for the losses he experienced between Monday 
and Tuesday, Im not going to make that award. Ill leave it to IG to decide whether it still 
intends to honour that offer or not. 
As Ive mentioned above, I understand Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and he is 
adamant that he is entitled to compensation. In reviewing all the issues Mr S has raised, as 
well as the correspondence between him and IG, Im not persuaded, for the reasons Ive 
given above, that IG has done anything wrong. This means that I dont uphold his complaint. 
But its only fair that I also point out to Mr S that Im also persuaded that the losses he 
suffered were trading losses caused by the fact that he had opened short positions and the 
price of WTI had risen  this had nothing to do with his understanding of how rollovers would 
work, IGs decision to automatically roll him over or the email he received on the Monday 
giving him wrong information. Ultimately Mr Ss losses were trading losses  and therefore 
not something IG was responsible for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman