DRN-4197027
The complaint
Mrs N, through her representative, complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services 
Limited (LV) unfairly declined insurance claims she made following the death of her 
husband.
What happened
To summarise, in April 2020, Mr and Mrs N took out a joint decreasing term life insurance 
policy to protect their mortgage. Mr N also took out a level term life insurance policy. The 
policies were taken out through a broker, following a telephone meeting in March 2020.
Very sadly, in January 2022, Mr N died. In February 2022, Mrs N sought to claim on the 
policies.  LV declined the claims. It said Mr N hadnt accurately answered questions asked 
during the application process about his lifestyle and health -  specifically, about mental 
health and alcohol use. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policies, decline the claims because of this 
and keep the premiums already paid.
Mrs N brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld. He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. He also 
agreed it was deliberate or reckless and that LV was entitled to avoid the policies and retain 
the premiums paid.
Mrs N didnt accept the investigator view. She disagreed with the interpretation of the 
medical evidence and said Mr N had answered every question to the best of his knowledge 
and understanding. She also said that the information you have provided document sent to 
her and Mr N after the policies commenced wasnt clear. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be extremely unwelcome 
news for Mrs N and Im very sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points 
and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or 
piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he gave 
no answers to the following questions:
Have you ever taken an overdose of drugs, attempted suicide, attempted to harm 
yourself, or had any thoughts or intentions to do so? 
Have any of these applied to you? 
Ive been advised by a medical professional to cut down or stop drinking alcohol, 
Ive been referred for alcohol or drug specialist supports such as Alcoholics 
Anonymous, Ive used recreational drugs in the last 10 years? 
There was also some disagreement about whether Mr N shouldve disclosed a diagnosis of 
COPD. His GP subsequently commented that Mr N may well have been unaware of the 
diagnosis prior to taking out the policy. However, LV has said this issue didnt have a bearing 
on its decision to avoid the policies, so Ill only be considering the suicide/self-harm and 
alcohol/drugs questions in my decision. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence carefully. Ill focus initially on the question relating to Mr 
Ns state of mind, although the same medical evidence is relevant to both key questions. In 
early 2020, Mr N participated in three telephone treatment sessions with a mental health 
service provider, before being discharged back to his GP as his preference was for face-to-
face contact - at the time not possible due to the pandemic. Mr Ns presenting problem was 
depression. 
In a letter to the GP, dated 6 April 2020, the practitioner records that during treatment Mr N 
reported no suicidal thoughts and, in respect of suicide/self-harm, no historical attempts. 
The practitioner goes on to record:
[Mr N] reported self-harm historically through alcohol. Signposted Mr N to [named 
alcohol/drugs service]. He stated he was attending AA meetings, however these had 
stopped following Covid-19. He said there was a lot of shame in relation to use of 
alcohol, however described in our telephone contact that this was currently under 
control. He stated that his GP was aware of his use of alcohol. 
Within three weeks of the policies commencing, Mr N had attempted to harm himself twice. 
He was seen by a crisis team on 7 May 2020. Under a section entitled mental state 
examination: thoughts the practitioner records:
generally negative, ruminating thoughts, reports ongoing suicidal thoughts for some 
months and again states that drinking improves his mood and make[s] him feel 
normal.
In the summary of assessment section, the practitioner further notes that Mr N admits he has 
been self-medicating with alcohol for several years.Mr N was referred for further support and at an assessment on 13 May 2020, reported that 
he currently does not have thoughts of ending his life and wants to focus on trying to change 
his situation. He subsequently engaged in community treatment and was recorded as being 
abstinent from alcohol in July 2020.
Mrs N has pointed out what she sees as a discrepancy and inconsistency in these records. I 
can understand her point of view, but I dont agree with it. The mental health and treatment 
practitioners are simply recording what Mr N said to them at the time. The full record for 7 
May 2020 shows that, in the aftermath of a second self-harm episode, Mr N was frank in 
discussing his mental health and alcohol issues. And his reference to ongoing suicidal 
thoughts for some months indicates that those thoughts likely predated the start of the 
policies, something which ought to have triggered a positive response to the question about 
suicide and self-harm.
Ill turn now more specifically to the question relating to alcohol and drugs. Theres been 
some debate regarding Mr Ns acknowledged attendance at AA and whether this was self-
referred or a referral from his GP. Mr N told his broker he referred himself to AA. In a letter to 
LV dated 5 July 2022, his GP said Mr N was advised on referral to alcohol services in 
November 2019, but went on to state that he was referred to alcohol special services in June 
2020. I acknowledge this distinction. However, to me, the significant element of the question 
is whether Mr N had been advised by a medical professional to cut down or stop drinking 
alcohol. 
In the July 2022 letter to LV, Mr Ns GP states:
We can confirm that [Mr N] unfortunately did drink alcohol in excess and had been 
advised on several occasions to reduce his alcohol intake. He was advised regarding 
his alcohol intake in March 2018April 2018[and] againin November 2019. 
In the same letter, Mr Ns alcohol intake is recorded in October 2018 as 30 units per week 
and in November 2019 as approximately 72 units per day.
After the policies commenced, LV sent Mr and Mrs N policy documentation, including an  
information you have provided form, showing their application answers. Mrs N has said the 
form isnt clear because it also includes previous answers given during the application 
process, but not forming part of the application information relied upon. LV has said that it 
can only take into account, in other words, base cover on the final answer submitted.
Ive looked at this and can see that, specifically, under a section entitled questions 
answered but no longer included in your application it shows that the answer regarding 
alcohol support was initially answered yes. I understand it was changed to no following a 
discussion with the broker about whether this was a self-referral or on medical advice. The 
information about historic answers comes towards the end of the document, under a heading 
stating it is information no longer included in the application. So I dont accept that the 
information later sent to Mr and Mrs N by LV wasnt clear. But in any event, the medical 
evidence shows that Mr N had been advised to reduce his alcohol intake on several 
occasions  something which ought also to have triggered a positive answer to the 
alcohol/drugs question.  
In respect of both his mental health and alcohol history, I think Mr N failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when applying for the policies. So I now need to 
consider whether the misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA, that is, would LV 
have come to a different decision about cover had it been given correct information. LV has provided evidence from its underwriting guidance. This shows that if Mr N had 
declared his suicidal thoughts LV wouldve postponed his application for two years. 
However, regarding the alcohol/drugs question, the advice to reduce his consumption, 
coupled with the levels recorded in the months prior to taking out the policy, wouldve 
resulted in a decline. That is, LV would not have offered cover at all. So Im satisfied Mr Ns 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
LV has treated the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Under CIDRA this means the 
customer knew or didnt care whether the information given was untrue or misleading; and 
knew it was relevant to the insurer or didnt care whether or not it was. 
Industry guidance from the Association of British Insurers says since lifestyle information  
such as alcohol history  is usually more familiar and easier for customers to understand, it 
follows that there should be a particularly credible and convincing explanation for clearly 
evidenced misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or reckless. 
Given the history of Mr Ns mental health and alcohol issues, the medical evidence, including 
recorded self-report evidence from Mr N, and the proximity to the application of advice to 
reduce his intake, I think it was reasonable for LV to treat the misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. 
CIDRA sets out the actions an insurer can take where a misrepresentation is deliberate or 
reckless. LV has acted in line with CIDRA by avoiding Mr Ns policies, declining Mrs Ns 
claims and retaining the premiums paid. I think that was reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im therefore not going to ask LV to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Once again, Im sorry to send what Im sure will be very difficult and disappointing news for 
Mrs N. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman