DRN-4091075
The complaint
Mr H complains that Epayments Systems Ltd unfairly stopped him from accessing his funds 
held with them. Hed like compensation for the delay.
What happened
The facts of this case arent in dispute  so Ill only briefly go over them here. Mr H held 
money in his Epayments account. But in February 2020 Epayments were obliged by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to stop processing transactions. This meant Mr H couldnt 
access the funds.
Mr H complained about this to our service. One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should succeed  saying that the restrictions were ultimately the responsibility of Epayments. 
He suggested the money be refunded, along with 8% simple interest from the point of the 
block to the date of settlement. He also asked Epayments to cover any charges involved and 
pay Mr H £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays.
This was accepted by Mr H, but Epayments declined. Instead they offered to pay Mr H £750 
to resolve the complaint overall. Mr H declined this offer.
Epayments said that their terms allowed them to withhold funds. They said as an electronic 
money institution (EMI) they cannot pay interest. They felt to award 8% interest, our service 
would have to be satisfied that Mr K would not have put these funds with another EMI, or 
with an investment generating returns of that amount. They also felt such an award would 
interfere with the winding down of their business.
The funds held in the account were released to Mr H in August 2023. But as no agreement 
could be reached on a fair way to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that from February 2020 Epayments were under restrictions placed there by the 
FCA, which meant they werent able to process transactions. The reasons for these 
restrictions have been widely publicised so I wont detail them in full here. But Im satisfied 
that the restrictions were down to failings by Epayments in their anti-money laundering 
controls.
Theres no suggestion here that anything Mr H did led to his account being restricted, so Im 
satisfied that the only reason he couldnt access the funds in his account is down to the 
failings of Epayments. Im aware there was a period where Epayments were waiting for KYC 
information from Mr H, but this was considerably after the restrictions were placed by the 
FCA. And I dont see that this will have caused any delay in Mr Hs funds being returned to 
him.
The impact of the restrictions is that he couldnt access his funds for a considerable period of 
time, over three years, through no fault of his own. I dont see this as fair, and its reasonable 
for Epayments to compensate him accordingly.
The investigator suggested adding 8% simple interest to the balance, although Epayments 
have put forward arguments against this. But this interest is not supposed to simply reflect 
lost interest or investment chances  and in any case Mr H has not provided us with any 
specific lost investment opportunities. 
Mr H has been deprived of these funds for over three years  money that he should have 
had available to him to use as he wanted. Because of the length of time I cant say for sure 
what the specific cost of not having these funds available would be. It will have influenced a 
whole host of decisions about spending and borrowing over that time. To attempt to rework 
or reconsider Mr Hs financial decisions over that period would be incredibly arduous, and 
not within the remit of our service to resolve complaints quickly and with the minimum of 
formality.
With that in mind Im satisfied awarding 8% simple interest on the amount for the period it 
wasnt available to Mr H is appropriate. It is a reflection of the cost to him of being deprived 
of these funds. Its also in line with the statutory interest rate on judgement debts.
In terms of the non-financial impact on Mr H of not having access to his funds, I can 
understand it would be incredibly frustrating. Epayments have said they were in contact with 
Mr H through this period, and Ive no reason to doubt this. But this wouldnt dampen the 
inconvenience. Overall, Im satisfied this would be worth compensation and I see £150 as a 
fair amount.
If Mr H has received any fees or charges from Epayments, or their partners, in having his 
funds returned then Epayments should arrange to refund these.
Lastly, its not my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of their business  and 
thats not the role of our service. My role here is ultimately to decide what is the fair way to 
resolve individual complaints between businesses and their customers, based on the 
individual facts of the complaint. Based on the facts of Mr Hs case, Im satisfied that it is fair 
for Epayments to redress him as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Epayments Systems Ltd must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of his account from 
11 February 2020 to the date the funds were made available to him.
Refund and currency conversion fees, or other fees and charges applied during the 
refund process
Pay him £150 compensation
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell them Mr H has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, at a rate of 8% simple 
interest per year.
In Epayments are required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest award, they 
should tell Mr H how much has been deducted. They should also provide a certificate 
showing how much was deducted if he asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman