DRN-3732601
The complaint
Miss R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss R was provided with a Capital One credit card in August 2019. The credit limit was set 
at £750 and no increases have been applied. Miss R says that the lending was unaffordable. 
She says that Capital One didnt verify her income or carry out reasonable checks. She said 
if it had it would have seen she had defaults on her credit file and that her income wasnt as 
high as recorded. 
Capital One says that before the credit card was provided it gathered information about 
Miss Rs employment, income and residential status and used external data to estimate 
Miss Rs expenses. It also carried out a credit check. It said Miss R had no defaulted 
accounts and the credit check showed one hire purchase agreement and two other credit 
card accounts. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought Capital One gathered a reasonable 
amount of evidence and information from Miss R about her ability to repay. He believed the 
information Capital One received showed that Miss R could likely afford the credit card 
repayments.
Miss R didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said she had defaults on her credit file 
and included the wrong income figure by mistake. She said that had checks been carried out 
Capital One would have realised she didnt have the income recorded and that the lending 
was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One was required to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing credit to Miss R. These isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry 
out, but it needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the 
type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost 
of the credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Miss Rs application included information that she was employed as an admin assistant 
earning an annual income of £25,000. Miss R has said that this amount is incorrect and 
should have been verified. I have considered the information provided and, in this case, I do 
not find that it was unreasonable that Capital One relied on the income figure provided. I say 
this because the amount given wasnt obviously incorrect based on the other information 
available and the credit limit offered was relatively low. Therefore, while I note Miss Rs 
comments, I find that it was reasonable for Capital One to rely on the annual income amount 
provided as part of the application process.
Capital One also carried out a credit check before lending. This showed that Miss R had a 
current account, hire purchase agreement and two other credit cards. The checks showed 
she had previous accounts that had been settled. Miss R has said that she had defaulted 
accounts at the time, but this wasnt shown in Capital Ones credit check and as no further 
evidence has been provided I cannot say that Capital One was wrong to rely on the result of 
its checks. 
I have considered the information received through the credit check and this showed that 
Miss R had over £17,000 outstanding on her hire purchase agreement and over £6,700 on 
her credit cards. One of her credit cards was over its limit and the other was close to the 
limit. However, as the credit report didnt raise any serious concerns about how the accounts 
were being managed, I think the checks carried out were reasonable.
Based on the comments above and noting the credit limit applied of £750, I think the checks 
carried out by Capital One were proportionate. Therefore, I have considered whether these 
checks raised concerns about the affordability of the credit.
The credit report showed Miss R had monthly credit commitments of just under £600. I have 
considered this amount against Miss Rs declared income and, noting that she said she was 
living with parents, I do not find that this would raise concerns that meant Capital One should 
have realised a credit limit of £750 would be unsustainably affordable for Miss R.
In conclusion while I understand the points Miss R has made, in this case, considering the 
size of the credit limit and the information received by Capital One, I think the checks were 
proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the credit, I do not find 
I have enough evidence to say that the lending shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman