DRN-2167743
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that his credit limit was reduced on his American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex) credit card.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr E says he received a text message from Amex. It said that following a 
review of his account, the credit limit on his credit card was being reduced with immediate 
effect  from £8,700 to £7,100. Mr E says he tried to contact Amex to discuss this on the 
number provided in the text message but received a notification that the offices were closed. 
He then called the number on the back of his card and says he was cut off three times 
before he got through to an adviser.
Mr E complained to Amex about his experience. As well as his credit limit being reduced with 
immediate effect, Mr E was also unhappy that the adviser he initially spoke with wouldnt 
register a complaint for him and, instead, arranged a call-back from someone else. Amex 
investigated matters but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the terms and 
conditions of Mr Es account allowed it to review credit limits to ensure they were appropriate 
for its customers. It also outlined that the terms and conditions didnt require advance notice 
to be given, and the fact that Mr E was told on the day of the reduction was sufficient notice.
Amex couldnt explain why the phone number Mr E was given in the text message didnt 
work and said the service may have been experiencing technical problems. But it apologised 
for the overall issues Mr E experienced. It explained that it ran a reduced phone service on 
weekends, which is why Mr E wasnt able to speak to a manager straight away. But a 
manager did call him back within two working days to discuss his complaint, which is in line 
with its guidelines. Mr E remained unhappy with its response, so brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought that Amex followed the terms and conditions when reducing Mr Es credit limit. He 
also noted that Amex apologised for any customer service issues Mr E experienced and 
thought this was sufficient.
Amex didnt challenge our investigators findings, but Mr E did and repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain my reasons why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es account allow Amex to adjust a customers credit limit. 
Amex explained it conducted a review of Mr Es account and, based on its findings, decided 
it was appropriate to reduce his credit limit. So, Im satisfied that the decision it made was 
based on the outcome of the account review, and so I dont think it has acted unfairly here. 
Ive also noted that the balance on Mr Es account was below the new limit that Amex set. 
So, I cant see that hes been unfairly impacted by Amexs decision. 
Mr E is unhappy that he was told his limit would reduce on the same day that it happened, 
and so doesnt consider this sufficient notice. I appreciate Mr E wouldve preferred more 
advance warning that his limit would be decreased. But I must also consider that the terms 
and conditions dont specify a timeframe by which notice must be given. They say Amex can 
adjust a customers credit limit by giving notice. Mr E received a text message immediately 
alerting him to the changes made and wouldve been sent a letter following this with more 
details. With that in mind, I cant fairly conclude that Amex acted outside its terms here. 
I know Mr E would like more information about what Amex considered before reducing his 
credit limit. In the letter Mr E wouldve been sent, Amex explained that its decision took into 
consideration a number of factors, which may have included: Mr Es payments and spending 
history with Amex; his level of indebtedness to Amex and other creditors and the financial 
information within his credit report. Businesses arent obliged to give the exact reasons why 
a credit limit might be reduced. Here, I think Amex has gone some way to explain the factors 
it considers when reviewing credit limits. And, Im not persuaded it needed to go into any 
more detail.
Ive considered that Mr E says he had some trouble getting through to an adviser on the 
phone. He also complained that the adviser he ultimately got through to didnt set up a 
complaint for him. Amex has apologised for any customer service issues Mr E experienced. 
It also arranged for a manager to call him back two working days after he originally called, 
which is in line with its processes. Taking everything into account, I think Amexs response 
here is fair, and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont think American Express Services Europe Limited needs to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman