DRN-3721862
The complaint
Mr K complains that Freetrade Limited failed to execute his buy orders for the price he 
saw on its trading application and instead executed the trades at a higher price. He 
wants compensation for the investment loss he says he made when the buy orders 
were executed.
What happened
Mr K had a Stocks and Shares ISA with Freetrade which enabled him to buy and sell 
shares. This included Mr K holding ordinary shares in a company which I will refer to as 
Stock A.
On 26 February 2021, Mr K placed an instant buy order to buy shares in Stock A through 
Freetrades mobile app. When Mr K looked to place the order, the app showed him an 
indicative price. This showed as 19.90p. Mr K says that when he tried to place the order, 
Freetrade rejected it without reason and that an error came up on his screen. Mr K said 
that he then tried to place the order again many times, but all were rejected. He said the 
indicative price shown then went slightly lower at 19.85p. He attempted the order again 
and it was executed by Freetrade at a higher price of 28.00p. 
Mr K then said that he put through another order immediately again for the same cash 
amount as the first executed order. Mr K says that the indicative price was lower at 20.80p. 
On this occasion it was rejected again. So, he tried to put through his second buy order 
again and on the next occasion this also was executed at 27.80p. 
Mr K complained to Freetrade about what happened and asked it to compensate him for his 
investment loss. He said on both occasions the indicative price shown on the trading app 
was significantly lower than the price at which it executed the buy orders. He said Freetrade 
should have either rejected the orders, as it had done many times around the same time, or 
it should have warned him about the price differences. Freetrade didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong and so Mr K brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said Freetrade 
made it clear in its terms and conditions that Mr K signed up to, that there may be price 
differences in the price executed and the indicative price. She also explained that there 
was a 15-minute delay in the pricing feed for the indicative price. That along with share 
volatility explained why there was such a difference between the two. The investigator 
also concluded that from what she had seen, Freetrade has carried out the buy orders at 
the best available market price. So, she didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree. He thought there might have been a system fault which needed looking 
into further. He asked in a recent submission why Freetrade rejected most of the buy 
orders but not the two that got through. 
He asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons, as follows:
Ive kept in mind that guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct Authority require 
Freetrade to carry out best execution  briefly, this means it has an obligation to 
take steps to obtain the best possible result for clients when executing buy and 
sales orders.
When Mr K opened his account with Freetrade he agreed to the terms of the 
account he signed up to. I can see that those terms required Freetrade to carry 
out instructions as soon as reasonably practicable. It also says that the buy price 
might be higher or lower than the price shown when the order is placed.
Mr K placed an order to buy his Stock A shares. When he did this on 26 February 
2021, the indicative share price shown on the app was 19.85p and on execution, 
Mr K bought the shares at 28.0p. Before this happened there were several times 
that Mr Ks order was rejected. Mr K placed a second order shortly after the first. 
The app showed an indicative price of 20.8p and the order was executed for 
27.8p.
Mr K says that Freetrade rejected several of his buy orders as the difference 
between the indicative price shown and the available price was so wide that it 
triggered its tolerance levels. And that these two trades went through and 
shouldnt have done. But I dont think that is what happened here.
Freetrade has told Mr K and our service that the indicative price shown has no 
bearing on if a trade is accepted or rejected. It says the indicative price is a guide 
price only. It says when it receives an instant buy order that it has a responsibly to 
carry out best execution. When it cant do that it rejects the order. Freetrade 
compare the price they are quoted with the current market price and go ahead if 
any difference is within its tolerance levels. As far as I can see Freetrade do not 
apply any tolerance levels to any difference shown between the indicative price 
and the price it is quoted.
Freetrade has explained both orders were executed for either the market price or 
better than the market price  and that seems to be borne out by information it 
has shared with the Financial Ombudsman Service. And it seems to have 
executed the trades with reasonable speed. It says it rejected the other buy 
orders from Mr K because it was unable to execute them at market price or 
better than market price.
So, in this case, Mr K put through several buy orders to Freetrade and all but two 
were rejected because it was unable to carry out best execution. But on two 
occasions it was and did so. And all of this had nothing to do with the indicative 
price that was shown on Freetrades app.
From what the parties have said, and what I have seen in the documentation 
provided, the indicative price shown on Freetrades app is delayed and not the 
current market price. So, if a share is showing volatility and is illiquid then the indicative price can differ somewhat from the actual share price that someone 
can trade for. This all seems to have been the case with Stock A as it had only 
just listed on this platform. The price was volatile on the day in question and the 
share price had moved significantly in a short space of time. 
Freetrade does offer customers the option to make a Limit Order which (unlike 
the Instant Orders Mr K placed) is an instruction to buy only at an agreed price or 
better. This is something Mr K could have alternatively sought to do to, that would 
have given him what he wanted which is more certainty when placing his orders.   
So, based on the findings I have just made, I cant fairly say that Freetrade did 
anything wrong when it executed trades in line with Mr Ks instructions to buy 
Stock A on two occasions on 26 February 2021. From what I have seen, it set out 
to carry out his buy orders by achieving the best available price at the time. And I 
think based on what I have seen that it did this. 
Looked at overall, I dont find Freetrade did anything wrong  so theres nothing it needs to 
do to put things right. It follows that I cant award compensation for the loss Mr K 
experienced following the order Freetrade executed on his behalf. And I dont find that 
Freetrade has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way, so I havent identified any 
other reason to require Freetrade to pay him any compensation.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr K but I hope he will at least feel that 
his complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to explain 
how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman