DRN-4380276
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros handled a 
claim he made under a buildings insurance policy.
Reference to either party includes their respective representatives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise my findings:
In March 2022, Mr S got in touch with Ocaso to make a claim for water damage to his 
property. Ocaso accepted the claim.
Mr S is a leaseholder of a flat and the freeholder was responsible for repairing the 
pipe. Ocaso asked Mr S to provide evidence from the freeholder that the leak had 
been stopped.
Mr S didnt think this was necessary. He said the leak had been stopped and thought 
that should be sufficient for Ocaso to proceed with the claim. After Ocaso insisted it 
needed that evidence, he complained.
I understand it took considerable effort from Mr S before the freeholder confirmed the 
leak had been repaired. It took them until January 2023 to confirm it had been fixed a 
year earlier. Although he shared that information with Ocaso, the claim didnt 
materially progress by the time of Ocasos complaint response in March 2023.
Ocaso apologised for any delays caused but said it wasnt responsible for the time it 
had taken to repair the leak.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. She thought Ocaso 
had acted fairly by asking for confirmation the leak had been repaired. But once that 
was provided, the claim didnt proceed meaningfully up to the time of the complaint 
response, around six weeks later. She thought that was unfair and asked Ocaso to 
pay £100 compensation as a result. I agree with this. Ill explain why.
I think it was reasonable for Ocaso to ask for confirmation the freeholder had 
repaired the leak. Without that, there would have been a risk that any building repairs 
wouldnt have been lasting and effective  which could have had a negative impact 
for both parties. Ocaso explained this to Mr S, so I think it helped him to understand 
why it wanted the confirmation. Im satisfied Ocaso wasnt responsible for the time it 
took to get the confirmation.
Once Mr S provided the confirmation, I would have expected Ocaso to act promptly 
to progress the claim. But it didnt do so and that caused an avoidable delay of 
around six weeks up to the complaint response. The scope of this complaint doesnt 
go beyond that response, so I cant consider what happened after that time. Im 
satisfied £100 is reasonable compensation for that avoidable delay.
The next steps are for Ocaso to consider the repair costs Mr S has submitted. I dont 
think its practical or helpful to set out a specific timescale for Ocaso to do this. But it 
must keep in mind its regulatory obligation to handle the claim promptly and fairly. 
And if Mr S doesnt think Ocaso has done that, or is unhappy with the claim outcome, 
hes entitled to raise a complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman