DRN-3701467
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA. In 
particular PayPal told him he had three deposits in his account which could be withdrawn, 
but when he checked his balance it was negative. 
What happened
Mr C says he was unable to access the funds in his PayPal account while an ongoing issue 
was resolved. 
In September Mr C received three emails from PayPal confirming three payments made into 
his account were available to be withdrawn. Since Mr C was unable to view any transactions 
on his PayPal account he assumed the transactions were being held due to the ongoing 
issues he was trying to resolve. 
Mr C says when he logged into his account he saw that he had a balance of minus £200. 
PayPal told Mr C he had a balance of minus £2,000 and so the recent transactions covered 
the negative balance. 
Mr C says until he logged into his account he wasnt aware he had a negative balance. He 
didnt receive any emails about his balance and when he logged into his account he was 
unable to view the transactions. And so he had no way of finding out anything relating to the 
transaction or check that what PayPal has told him is correct.
Mr C complained to PayPal using the formal complaint section of its website. PayPal said Mr 
Cs account was restricted in May 2020 in accordance with its terms of use. Prior to this, 
three transactions were received from a particular marketplace. Two of the transactions were 
disputed and upheld, resulting in them being refunded. The third transaction was disputed 
but found in Mr Cs behaviour. PayPal said in September the transactions were placed on 
hold resulting in a negative balance on the account. Once the hold on the funds was 
removed the negative balance on the account resolved itself. PayPal said there had been no 
new payments into the account.   
Mr C wasnt happy with the response received from PayPal and so he referred it to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said while he understood it would 
have been confusing for Mr C to receive notifications of deposits into his PayPal account, he 
was satisfied the account didnt receive any external funds into it after its restriction. And as 
such he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C doesnt appear to believe PayPals version of events. I think its important to say 
financial businesses can never claim a customers money for itself. I can see Mr C feels 
strongly about this matter and I understand why. But I dont think PayPal has acted 
unreasonably or treated Mr C unfairly here. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it affects what I think is the right outcome. 
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business informally and impartially. Should we decide something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as possible, in the 
position they would have been in if the problem hadnt occurred. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the emails he received notifying him he had 
received deposits that he could withdraw. And when he looked at the account it was showing 
a negative balance. I can see this would have been confusing and frustrating for Mr C 
especially since he was unable to view the transactions due to his account being restricted. 
PayPal has provided evidence to show the deposits into his account were from 2017 and 
were disputed transactions. And so it applied a negative balance on the accounts to cover 
the amount of the disputes. Since the disputes had already been decided previously the hold 
on those transactions was removed and the account went back to zero. 
Mr C has said he is unable to provide any evidence he was expecting funds into his account 
since his account is restricted. And whilst I understand this may be the case I havent seen 
anything else from Mr C to confirm he was expecting any funds into his PayPal account such 
as an agreed sale via a marketplace. So I cant see why Mr C was expecting to be able to 
withdraw any funds from his account after it had been restricted by PayPal. 
Mr C has said he wasnt aware of any disputed transactions and if this is the case he needs 
to raise this with PayPal in the first instance in order that it can investigate and respond. I am 
not able to make a finding on an issue where the business in question hasnt had an 
opportunity to respond. 
I have looked at the circumstances of this complaint as a whole. But in order to uphold Mr 
Cs complaint I would need to see PayPal acted outside its user agreement. And that Mr C 
had suffered a material loss as a result of that. This is because Mr C agreed to the terms 
when he signed up to PayPal. But for the reasons given Im satisfied it has acted in line with 
those terms. So it follows I wont be asking PayPal to do anything further. 
I know Mr C wont be happy with my decision but I hope the explanation I have provided 
makes clear why I have reached this outcome. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman