DRN-4019473
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In March 2020, Mr S account received a payment of £4,900.00, into his savings account. 
The funds were immediately transferred into Mr S current account before subsequently 
being transferred on to third parties. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payments to Mr S account stating the payees of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Lloyds reviewed Mr S account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr S account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr S complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr S complaint. As Mr S remained dissatisfied, Mr S referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in March 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr S says that he doesnt know anything about the activity which took place on his account. 
Hes said that he lost his cards and documents and he wasnt able to use his accounts at 
this time. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt here, Im afraid that there are a number of things which dont add up and which 
mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an unwitting participant. I firstly say this 
because Mr S version of events doesnt explain how his savings account ended up receiving 
the fraudulent funds which went on to be transferred to his current account.
Secondly Mr S version of events (him having lost his card and some documents) doesnt 
explain how someone would have been able to transfer funds between his accounts and 
then on to third-parties. 
Im also concerned that payments were made to at least one of the third-parties that the 
fraudulent funds were transferred to before the fraudulent funds went into Mr S account. Id 
have to question why an opportunistic fraudster who happened to find Mr S card would 
arrange to obtain fraudulent funds only to transfer them to Mr S existing payees.  
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr S being unable to provide anything at all (such 
as him having reported his card lost at the time) to corroborate what, on the face of things, 
appears an implausible version of events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an 
unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his 
account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr S was complicit in this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not 
requiring Lloyds to take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him.
Furthermore, Mr S might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman