DRN-3648894
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) has refused to reopen his account.
Background
In April 2022, Mr M notified Monzo that hed moved to the United States of America (US) 
and as a result wanted to open a US Monzo account. Mr M was told that he couldnt have a 
US Monzo account as long as he had a United Kingdom (UK) one. So if he wanted a US 
Monzo account he had to close his UK Monzo account before applying for one. Mr M did this 
but was subsequently refused a US Monzo account. 
After this Mr M asked for his UK Monzo account to be reopened. Monzo refused and Mr M 
made a complaint, which Monzo didnt uphold. As Mr M remained dissatisfied, he referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr M 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr M, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr M is unhappy that Monzo 
wont reopen his account. However, providing a customer with an account is a commercial 
decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
In this case, Mr M decided to close his UK Monzo account so that he could apply for a US 
one. This was a decision that Mr M chose to make. And having looked through the content of 
the communications Mr M exchanged with Monzo, I cant see that he was ever told hed be 
guaranteed a US Monzo account as a result of closing his UK one.
I realise that Monzos decision not to reopen his UK account will have been very 
disappointing to Mr M and I can appreciate why this will have caused him inconvenience. I 
also suspect that theres an element of disappointment as he feels as though he would still 
have his UK Monzo account had he not been told he had to close it ahead of applying for a 
US one.
However, theres no guarantee that this is the case as Monzos terms and conditions state 
that only UK residents are eligible for UK Monzo accounts. And Mr M had already told Mr M 
that he was moving to the US and thats why he wanted a US Monzo account. So Monzo 
may well have taken the decision to close his account anyway if he hadnt chose to do this 
himself. In any event, whats most important of all here is that Im simply not in a position to 
be able to tell Monzo that it has to offer Mr M an account in circumstances where it has 
legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards 
Mr M and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think Monzo hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman