DRN-3407852
The complaint
Mr N and Miss T complain Admiral Insurance Company Limited has unfairly declined a claim 
theyve made on their buildings insurance policy following damage to their property.
What happened
Miss T brings this complaint on behalf of herself and Mr N, so Ill refer to her throughout. The 
background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary here.
Miss T has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Admiral.
She says her house experienced damage during a storm. The gable end of the 
property came away and collapsed, there was damage to the roof and a boundary 
wall collapsed.
She contacted Admiral to make a claim on her policy. It appointed a specialist to 
investigate the damage.  Following a structural engineers report, it declined the 
claim, saying the damage was as a result of wear and tear, as the wall ties holding 
the wall together had corroded over time. And this wasnt covered by the policy.
Miss T complained to Admiral but it maintained its position on the claim and thought it 
had handled it in reasonable time.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged there were storm 
conditions but didnt think the main cause of damage was the storm. 
Miss T disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and I can see these exclude damage which 
happens gradually. In my experience, this is common among many buildings 
insurance policies. 
Our Investigator explained this Services established approach to claims relating to 
storm damage so I dont propose to re-state it here. Its accepted that the weather at 
the time amounted to storm conditions, so I dont need to make a finding on that.
Ive then gone on to consider the damage to the property and whether this is 
consistent with storm damage and has been shown to be the main cause of the 
damage. 
Admirals report was produced following an onsite visit by a suitably qualified 
structural engineer. It comprehensively details the damage to the property. 
The report concludes the outer leaf embedment of the wall ties had corroded over a 
period of many years causing them to be ineffective. This resulted in the inner and 
outer leaves of the wall acting independently rather than as a tied, single wall unit. It 
goes on to say, if the wall ties had remained intact and acting effectively, its unlikely 
the collapse  and the resulting damage - would have occurred. 
In short, it says storm wasnt the main cause of the damage, it merely highlighted the 
defective wall ties.
I acknowledge here, Miss T doesnt agree with Admirals report and questions its 
accuracy and comprehensiveness. She still believes the storm to have been the main 
cause of the damage, partly due to the propertys location and the direction of the 
wind. But Ive not been given any expert evidence to consider which backs up her 
opinion on these issues.
Overall, I find the report from Admirals expert and the conclusions reached to be 
more persuasive. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on its findings to 
say the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage, and in so doing, 
decline the claim.
And while I also acknowledge the comments from employees of the local council 
relating to other property damage in the area, that doesnt change my mind that in 
the case of Miss Ts property, the storm wasnt the main cause of damage.
I note, Miss T has received advice that suggests the exclusion relating to things 
happening gradually is ambiguous but I dont agree. The exclusion states Any loss 
or damage caused by anything that happens gradually. In this case, the damage 
to the property has been caused by the corrosion and deterioration of the wall ties 
which has happened gradually. So, Im satisfied the damage which happened as a 
result of this, is excluded.
And as the exclusion also applies to the Accidental Damage part of the policy, Im 
satisfied Admiral acted fairly when it declined the claim under this part of the policy 
too.
Admiral investigated the claim and issued its declinature in less than three weeks 
and Im satisfied this was within a reasonable timescale given my experience of 
claims of this type requiring an engineers survey.
As the claim has been fairly declined, Admiral doesnt have a responsibility to provide 
alternative accommodation.
During our investigation, Miss T mentioned additional damage which hadnt 
previously been mentioned to our Investigator or to Admiral. Admiral has said it will 
contact Miss T to take this issue forward but its not something Ive considered under 
this complaint as no claim decision had been reached.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman