DRN-1548830
The complaint
Mr P  on behalf of Company T  complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
(CTI) unfairly declined his insurance claim following the theft of his business property.
What happened
Mr P is the owner of Company T, for which he holds a business protection policy with CTI. 
He made a claim following the theft of his van on 12 June 2019. The van was later found but 
had been destroyed after being set alight. Mr P submitted a claim for the theft of the van, as 
well as for the destruction of his company property that was locked in the van. 
CTI said that Mr P had breached a condition precedent to liability. They said the policy 
requires Mr P to keep all equipment within a locked and secure building between the hours 
of 00:00 and 07:00 when the vehicle is left unattended. CTI said that Mr P had left the 
vehicle unattended outside his property overnight, and that it was not kept within a locked 
and secure building or compound, so they declined his claim. 
Mr P complained as he felt his claim had been declined unfairly. In summary, he said:
He locked his van outside his house at 22:30, so it is possible that it was stolen 
before midnight. 
In any event, the van was not left unattended because he did not leave the address, 
and was loading the vehicle ready for a job the next day.
It was also impractical for him to unload all of his equipment into his house, which 
was large and heavy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he thought the policy condition was clear, 
and that it had not been complied with. So he didnt think CTI had acted unfairly by declining 
the claim. Mr P disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions set out certain requirements or conditions precedent to 
liability that are designed to reduce the risk of an insured event occurring, and which the 
policyholder must comply with in order for the policy to respond to a given claim. The 
condition of particular importance in Mr Ps claim sets out:
MINIMUM SECURITY CONDITION
For all items in excess of £5,000 it is a condition precedent to liability that
...f) all equipment in unattended vehicles or trailers or the like between the hours of 
midnight and 7am must be kept within a locked and secure building and compound or 
in situ at a venue where the Insured has been contracted to work and where any 
secure building or compound is either unavailable or impractical to use.
So the key issues Ive considered as part of this case are:
1. Has Mr P breached the above condition precedent?
2. If so, is it fair for CTI to rely on this breach to decline the claim? 
Has Mr P breached the condition precedent?
Mr P says there has been no breach as he had not left the vehicle unattended. There is no 
definition of the term left unattended in the policy. But a relevant test was set out by the 
Court of Appeal in Starfire Diamond Rings Ltd v Angel [1962] 2 Lloyds Rep. 217, which is 
still good law (and has been applied by later Courts of Appeal as recently as 2015, cf. Milton 
Furniture Ltd v Brit Insurance Ltd [2015] EWCA Civ 671). 
Lord Denning held that, for an item to be attended, there must be someone able to keep it 
under observation, that is, in a position to observe any attempt to interfere with it, and who is 
so placed as to have a reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference with 
it. This is weighty authority from a very eminent Master of the Rolls. I am also satisfied his 
legal test is still fair and reasonable, so there arent good grounds for me to depart from it. 
On the contrary, its something we ordinarily take into account when deciding insurance 
cases of this nature. 
In the circumstances of Mr Ps case he said:
 I loaded my van ready for the following morning and parked it outside my house. The 
van was locked up.
During the night it was stolen and found the following day by a member of the public, 
The van had been set on fire.
Given that Mr P didnt see the theft occur, or even know of its occurrence until he went to 
drive the van the next morning, it doesnt seem likely that he was close enough to have a 
reasonable prospect of preventing any unauthorised interference with it. So according to the 
test laid down in Starfire, I do not think he can be considered to have been in attendance of 
the vehicle. As such  and given that the vehicle was likely going to be left overnight until 
the next morning  Mr P was required by the policy to ensure that his equipment was kept 
in a locked and secure building/compound and not left in the vehicle overnight.
Mr P says it was impractical for him to move the equipment into his home and submits that 
he has not breached the condition precedent as a result. But I do not consider the policy 
condition to allow Mr P to store valuable equipment in his van just because it is impractical 
for him to move it. The condition sets out two options: either the policyholder must keep the 
equipment overnight in a secure building or compound or it must be kept in situ at a contract 
venue where a secure building is unavailable or impractical to use. Mr P did neither of these 
things despite the vehicle being left overnight. So Im satisfied that he has breached the 
condition precedent to liability in this instance.
Has CTI declined the claim fairly?
Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 requires an insurers position to have been prejudiced 
before theyre able to rely on the non-compliance of a condition precedent to escape liability. Specifically, the Act says that if a loss occurs, and a policy term has not been complied with, 
the insurer may not rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability 
under the contract if the insured can show that the non-compliance with the term could not 
have increased the risk of the loss that occurred.
In this instance, Im satisfied that Mr Ps non-compliance with the condition precedent did 
increase the risk of the loss occurring because if his equipment was kept in a locked/secure 
building or compound as required it would likely not have been stolen along with the van and 
subsequently destroyed when the van was set on fire. 
So I dont consider this to be a case of the insurer declining a claim on a mere technicality, 
because its clear that the condition precedent (if complied with) would tend to reduce the 
risk of the equipment being stolen. Mr P says its not clear whether the van and equipment 
were stolen before midnight ,as he left it locked at 22:30. But Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest that the equipment was stolen before midnight, so I have no basis on which to 
believe that the claim has been declined unfairly on this basis either.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint, as I consider CTI to have declined the claim 
fairly and reasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman