DRN-3230453
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical (Scottish Widows) 
caused a delay to him transferring his Section 32 pension to another provider. He says the 
delay led to a financial loss.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr B sought advice to transfer his section 32 pension into a self-invested 
personal pension. He employed a financial advisory firm who Ill refer to as T throughout 
this decision. 
On 21 October 2020 T wrote to Scottish Widows asking for the information they required 
about Mr Bs pension in order for them to advise him. Their request included a signed letter 
of authority (LOA) from Mr B asking Scottish Widows to add T as his advisers on his 
pension. 
Over the following weeks Mr B and T contacted Scottish Widows to try and obtain the 
information they required. But Scottish Widows failed to provide the information to T that was 
needed. 
In November 2020 Mr B also wrote to Scottish Widows requesting that all of the unit-linked 
investments in his pension fund be switched into a cash fund. He included a fund switch 
form to that affect.
In late December 2020 Mr B complained to Scottish Widows as the information still hadnt 
been passed to T. He also said he was concerned that he may have missed out on two 
months of investment growth due to the delay. 
T provided Scottish Widows with another LOA in late January 2021. Then, on 5 February 
2021 Scottish Widows sent T the information they required. 
Scottish Widows responded to Mr Bs earlier complaint. They acknowledged that theyd 
received Mr Bs LOA in October 2021 but it had been scanned onto an old system and 
hadnt been forwarded to their new system. This meant Mr B suffered an undue delay in 
Scottish Widows sending the information to T. They also said the level of service Mr B 
received wasnt acceptable and there were further delays when Mr B had requested details 
about his Guaranteed Minimum Pension in January 2021. 
Scottish Widows said that should Mr B still wish to transfer his pension they would consider 
any financial loss Mr B may have suffered between the dates of when Scottish Widows could 
have reasonably sent the information to T as opposed to the actual date it was sent. 
Alternatively, if Mr B decided not to transfer, Scottish Widows said they could work out a 
reasonable date of when Mr B could have requested the funds be re-invested into the funds 
hed previously invested in.
In compensation for the poor service Scottish Widows also offered Mr B £550 which was 
made up of £500 for the inconvenience he was caused and £50 for the delay in responding 
to his complaint.
Once Mr Bs adviser T had received all the information they needed from Scottish Widows, 
they didnt make the recommendation Mr B hoped for. But Mr B employed a new adviser and 
by late April 2021, Scottish Widows transferred Mr Bs pension to a new provider who Ill 
refer to as provider H.  
Following the transfer Scottish Widows calculated that, should they have registered Mr Bs 
LOA correctly in October 2020, the transfer would have gone ahead on 7 February 2021 
instead of when it did on 29 April 2021. So, they asked provider H to do a price comparison 
of what Mr Bs investments would be worth had he been able to purchase them on 
7 February 2021.
Mr B disagreed with Scottish Widows calculation of the delay that theyd caused, he also felt 
some of the delay should be apportioned to T with whom hed already raised a complaint. 
In July 2021 provider H responded to Scottish Widows request for a calculation. They said 
Mr B didnt instruct any investments to be made, so the funds had initially remained in cash. 
They also confirmed that their cash accounts have a zero percent interest rate. So, as a 
result, Scottish Widows told Mr B, he hadnt suffered any investment loss as a result of their 
delays, as the funds had remained in cash throughout.
Mr B was unhappy with Scottish Widows calculations. He said his funds had been 
disinvested throughout Scottish Widows delay, and therefore they should be responsible for 
the losses he incurred at that time, despite what he did with his funds after they were 
transferred. So, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said the way in which Scottish Widows had calculated their delay and the 
subsequent loss calculation was a fair remedy for Mr Bs complaint. He said it was Mr Bs 
choice to move his funds into cash and keep them there after the transfer, so it was 
reasonable for Scottish Widows to conclude they hadnt caused him an investment loss. Our 
investigator also thought the offer of £500 for the trouble and upset caused was appropriate 
in the circumstances.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to direct a business to put things right if we think its done something wrong. And 
in this case Scottish Widows acknowledge that they caused a delay in Mr Bs pension being 
transferred. Therefore, I dont intend to dwell on the errors that Scottish Widows made, 
instead I will focus on whether their offer of redress is fair.   
In cases such as these Id expect a business to think about what should have happened if 
they hadnt made the error that they did. 
Scottish Widows were first sent the LOA on 21 October 2020 by T. Theyve sent us a 
scanned image of this LOA which has been stamped to say it was received by Scottish 
Widows on 22 October 2020. And the information T required wasnt provided to them by 
Scottish Widows until 5 February 2021. So, Im satisfied Scottish Widows caused an 
avoidable delay.  Scottish Widows say a reasonable timeframe for sending the required information to T would 
have been 10 working days. And I agree thats a reasonable timeframe to action the request. 
That would mean T would have received the information it required on 5 November 2020, 
rather than 5 February 2021.
Scottish Widows also calculated that it took 82 days from when they sent the information T 
required to when Mr Bs funds were transferred away. The reason for that timeframe was 
due to Mr Bs relationship with T breaking down and him having to employ a new advisor. 
So, overall Scottish Widows say Mr Bs funds would have been transferred to the new 
provider on 7 February 2021. 
I agree that the method Scottish Widows used to calculate the date at which Mr Bs funds 
would have been transferred to provider H was fair. As, even if Scottish Widows delay didnt 
happen as it did. And the information was sent to T in a reasonable timeframe. The issues 
that Mr B had with T that followed would have still happened. So, I think Scottish Widows 
redress methodology in this circumstance was fair.    
Mr B is concerned about the investment losses he says he suffered. He said the losses 
came about because he was convinced to move his investments into cash in November 
2020 as he thought the transfer of his funds was imminent. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
hold Scottish Widows responsible for Mr Bs funds being switched to cash. I say that 
because theres no evidence that Scottish Widows advised him to do so or told him that the 
transfer of his pension would be imminent. Scottish Widows acted on a switch form which 
they received from Mr B, so I dont think they did anything wrong by switching his funds to 
cash. 
Scottish Widows original responses to Mr Bs complaint were sent before Mr B had 
employed new advisers. So, it was unclear at that time whether Mr B would actually transfer 
his pension. Therefore, Scottish Widows gave Mr B two options. They said if Mr B 
transferred his funds, theyd calculate the potential investment loss caused by the delay of 
82 days that it acknowledged. But they also said that if Mr B chose not to transfer and 
switched his funds from cash back into the existing unit-linked investments, theyd calculate 
what investment losses Mr B would have suffered by not switching back earlier.
I think Scottish Widows methodology was fair. I say that because if Mr B was to transfer, its 
likely his funds would have remained in cash until the transfer. Equally, as Ive said, it wasnt 
Scottish Widows errors that caused Mr B to switch into cash. But had he changed his mind 
on the transfer after the breakdown of his relationship with T, its possible he would have 
switched his cash funds back into his previous investments. So, the proposed redress fairly 
put Mr B back into the position he should have been in dependant on his decision whether to 
still transfer. 
Ultimately Mr B employed new advisors and continued with the transfer. So, 
Scottish Widows spoke to the new provider and asked for the loss calculation to be carried 
out, using an 82 day delay. But the new provider explained that Mr Bs funds had remained 
in cash in an account that didnt bear any interest. So, as the funds remained in cash 
throughout, Scottish Widows said Mr B hadnt suffered a loss. I appreciate Mr B feels 
differently but I cant fairly say this calculation was wrong. And I dont think Scottish Widows 
actions caused Mr B a financial loss by delaying his transfer.      
Mr B says it shouldnt matter what he later decided to do with his funds after they were 
transferred. He says he feels the losses he suffered from Scottish Widows error was that his 
funds were left disinvested for so long prior to the transfer. But I disagree. Mr B chose not to 
invest once the cash was transferred to provider H. However, if hed made investments, 
Scottish Widows would have put any losses right for him. Scottish Widows didnt advise Mr B to switch his investments to cash. And because Mr B chose to keep his funds in cash, he 
didnt suffer any investment losses for Scottish Widows to put right. 
That being said, the error and subsequent delay has clearly caused Mr B a considerable 
amount of upset and inconvenience. He had to make numerous calls and send several 
emails to Scottish Widows for them to accept T as his advisor when all the correct 
information had already been sent. But Scottish Widows have offered to pay Mr B £500. And 
I think this fairly reflects the level of upset and inconvenience caused.
Scottish Widows also offered Mr B £50 for the way in which they dealt with his complaint. 
Complaint handling isnt something our service can look into, so I wont comment on that 
further. Mr B should speak to Scottish Widows directly if he hasnt already accepted their 
offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical, if they havent 
done so already, must pay Mr B £500 for the upset and inconvenience they caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman