DRN-2612459
The complaint
U is a limited company. U believes that First Data Europe Limited misrepresented the terms 
of a contract to them at the point of sale, and that they would not have accepted the contract 
had the applied terms been disclosed to them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
Neither U or First Data have submitted any information or evidence to dispute the description 
of this complaint that was previously outlined by our investigator. So, Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings reached by our investigator for these reasons.
Having reviewed the point of sale documents, I cant see that clear information about 
ceiling limits or limits on non-qualifying charges is contained within these documents.
Im satisfied from the information available to me that the sale can be considered as 
being an advised sale, and that Fist Datas sales representative had access at the 
point of sale to all the information necessary to enable them to make an informed 
recommendation as to the suitability of the product they were selling. 
Im satisfied that U werent given the opportunity to review the details entered into the 
point of sale documents by First Datas sales representative before being asked to 
sign these documents.
Im satisfied from the information available to me that the product wasnt suitable, 
given the particulars of Us business, and that as such the recommendation made by 
First Datas sales representative constitutes a mis-sale. 
For these reasons, I dont feel that it would be fair or reasonable to expect U to be bound by 
the terms of the sale, and my final decision is that I will be upholding this complaint and 
instructing First Data to restore U to the position that they would have been in had they not 
entered into the agreement.   
Putting things right
First Data Europe Limited must:
1. Cancel the merchant and global leasing agreements at no cost to U.
2. Refund all fees and charges that U paid to First Data Europe Limited (including PCI 
non-compliance charges). However, First Data may deduct from that refund any fees 
and charges that U would have paid to their previous service provider between 
November and December 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against First Data Europe Limited on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman