DRN-3438119
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way TSB Bank plc has dealt with a claim she sought to make in 
relation to recovery of money shed paid towards a holiday booking that didnt go ahead 
following the insolvency of the booking company, T.
What happened
Mrs M used her TSB credit card to pay for a holiday booking arranged through T. Her 
husband Mr M also paid a sum using his credit card with another provider. The holiday 
arrangements included flights, accommodation, and additional activities, being theme park 
admission tickets.
Sadly, before the holiday was due to take place T ceased trading. Some of the money paid 
was recovered through a claim to ATOL, with whom T had bonding arrangements. Mr M 
recovered his money from his credit card provider, though there was some initial confusion 
when this was twice refunded. Mr Ms credit card provider corrected the overpayment. But 
Mrs M was still out of pocket by £2,223.98.
In June 2020 Mrs M approached TSB for assistance in recovering this money. She heard 
nothing further from the bank and in January 2021 she complained to it. In response, TSB 
said that it had been experiencing significantly higher volumes of disputes and this had an 
impact on its ability to respond to Mrs Ms claim. It apologised for the frustration this had 
caused Mrs M and offered her £75 compensation. It also said it would arrange for its 
disputes team to look into matters and that it would be in contact with Mrs M.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that TSB reimburse Mrs M in full, together with interest for 
the time she had been deprived to access to the money. The investigator considered that the 
transaction was undertaken in respect of a package holiday and that the booking terms had 
the effect of including Mrs M as party to the contract, such that she could bring a claim 
against TSB under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
The investigator was satisfied that the available evidence demonstrated that Ts insolvency 
meant it was unable to fulfil its contractual obligations, and that Mrs M therefore had a valid 
claim against TSB for the contract breach. She was further satisfied that the documents 
submitted to us supported the amounts Mrs M and her husband had said theyd been able to 
recover, and that the remaining sum was due to her under the claim.
TSB hasnt agreed to the investigators proposal. It has questioned the basis on which we 
have dealt with the complaint, saying that Mrs Ms original complaint was about the fact 
shed received no response to her claim. It has pointed to the action it took in response to 
that complaint, and says that it did what it said it would do in its final response letter.
The bank says it requested more information about the ATOL claim from Mrs M between 
February and April 2021. It was unable to assist further because it didnt receive this from 
her until June 2021. TSB says it then reopened Mrs Ms claim and requested further 
information from her in March 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall first address the issue of our power to deal with this complaint. In summary, the 
banks position appears to be that, as it is still dealing with Mrs Ms claim and has done what 
it said it would do in its final response, we should not be considering her complaint. But this 
position doesnt seem to recognise that Mrs M asked us to look into her complaint because 
she wasnt satisfied with what the bank proposed in its final response. Her complaint is not 
about the steps the bank has subsequently taken to deal with the claim, but about the fact 
that it failed to take any steps to deal with it for more than six months.
That the bank has belatedly taken steps is the minimum I would expect of it (though I note 
that despite those steps, Mrs Ms claim remains unresolved more than two years after it was 
made). But none of this affects my consideration of the complaint that Mrs M made and 
referred to us. Im satisfied that complaint falls within the remit of our service.
Undoubtedly, there were factors that affected TSBs ability to respond as promptly as it might 
otherwise have done. The Covid-19 pandemic caused an unprecedented increase in the 
number of claims all banks had to deal with, and I have some sympathy with the position in 
which TSB found itself. However, it is for a bank to ensure it is sufficiently resourced to 
manage increased volumes. While I think some latitude can be given to TSB in terms of the 
time taken to engage with Mrs Ms claim, I dont think it unreasonable for Mrs M to expect 
that her claim would have been considered within the timescale she gave it before making 
her complaint.
With this in mind, Ive considered what the position would have been had TSB dealt with the 
claim in a timely way. The bank is aware of its potential section 75 liability, and presumably 
as a minimum would have obtained evidence relating to the contract, any relevant consumer 
protection legislation or regulations, details of payments made and the purpose of those 
payments. Had it done so, its investigation would have established the following.
The holiday arranged by T comprised flights, accommodation, insurance and theme park 
tickets. These amount to travel services as defined in the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). The company through whom T arranged to provide 
the theme park tickets(A) has described the booking as a package travel arrangement. But 
even if that isnt correct, the travel services in the booking meet the PTR definition of a linked 
travel arrangement. T was the organiser of the travel services, and under Part 4 of the PTR 
is liable to the traveller for performance of those travel services. And Mrs M meets the PTR 
definition of traveller as she was someone entitled to travel on the basis of a contract 
concludedwithin the scope of these Regulations [the PTR]
Part 4 also provides that the provision relating to responsibility for performance  among 
others  is implied as a term of the contract. A failure to under this part amounts to a breach 
of contract, which even though the booking was made by Mr M extends to Mrs M as a 
traveller. That seems to be supported by other legislation, such as the Contracts (Rights of 
Third Parties) Act 1999, though for the purposes of this complaint its not necessary to 
address every avenue by which Mrs M might formulate a claim.
It ought then to have been sufficiently clear to TSB that a) this meant the necessary debtor-
creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs M and T was in place, and b) Mrs M had sufficient grounds to make a breach of contract claim against T (and by extension under 
section 75, against the bank). 
From that point, the question becomes one of whether T performed its contractual 
obligations. The fact that in February 2020 ATOL settled a claim for the flights and 
accommodation is a rather clear indication that T failed to do perform the contract. The 
banks investigation would further have established that T never paid over to A the balance 
of the money (other than an amount of £50). A confirmed this in writing in a letter it sent to 
Mr M dated 10 March 2020. All of these facts were established some time before Mrs M 
even made her claim to TSB, and therefore would have been within the ambit of a 
competent investigation into her claim.
Whether Mrs M would have supplied this information to TSB had it instigated its investigation 
sooner is not a question I need to address, given that the situation didnt arise. TSB was not 
hampered in its investigation between June 2020 and January 2021, because it didnt begin 
one until after that time. And it doesnt change the factual position  that T had a liability 
towards Mrs M in performance, that T failed to perform its obligations, and that this failure 
amounted to a breach of contract. The relationship between Mrs M, TSB, and T was such 
that the provisions of section 75 were engaged. So I would have thought TSB would 
reasonably have concluded that it was liable to Mrs M.
Putting things right
Im conscious that TSB has sought clarification of amounts paid and sums received by way 
of reimbursement by other parties. This information was documented by our investigator and 
I understand we have also forwarded all relevant correspondence to TSB, so that it is in a 
position to query the proposed redress. The bank hasnt offered any persuasive reason why 
the remedy our investigator proposed was wrong, or that she failed to properly account for 
the money already received in redress from elsewhere. And Im satisfied the amount 
specified  £2,223.98  is an accurate reflection of the sum by which Mrs M remains out of 
pocket. The £50 A did receive from T has not, to my understanding, been refunded by A.
Based on my findings, I consider it appropriate that TSB pays Mrs M the outstanding 
£2,223.98. And given the time she has been left without access to this money due to the way 
TSB failed to address her claim in a timely way, I also consider it only right that the bank 
pays her interest on this sum. Ive noted the £75 TSB offered for its handling of matters, and 
for clarity, this element of my award is in addition to any sum the bank has already paid.
That interest should be assessed at a rate of 8% simple per year as suggested by the 
investigator, other than that I believe it would be fair to say that interest should be payable 
from the point at which TSB ought to have concluded its investigation had it acted timeously 
and in light of the latitude I said I would afford the bank due to the problems caused by the 
pandemic. Allowing for this and a reasonable period to conclude an investigation, I direct 
that this interest should be calculated on the sum in question from 26 November 2020, being 
five months from the point at which Mrs M submitted her claim, until the date TSB pays this 
settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. To settle it, TSB Bank plc must, within 
28 days of receiving Mrs Ms acceptance of it, take the following steps:
1. pay Mrs M £2,223.98
2. pay Mrs M interest on the amount in 1., together with interest calculated at 8% simple per year from 26 November 2020 to the date it pays this settlement. If TSB deducted 
tax from this interest element of my award, it should provide Mrs M with a tax 
deduction certificate, should she ask for one
3. if it has not already done so, pay Mrs M £75 to reflect the delays as set out in its final 
response letter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman