DRN-3542791
The complaint
M complains about the decision of AXA Insurance UK Plc to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim made for losses arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the events in question. Additionally, whilst 
much of the correspondence relating to the claim and complaint has involved other parties, 
for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to M and AXA. 
M operates as a bar and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by AXA. The 
policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. In 
March 2020, M was required to close its premises and contacted AXA to claim for the losses 
resulting from this interruption to its business. 
AXA initially declined the claim in its entirety. It said that COVID-19 had not caused damage 
to property that had led to an interruption of Ms business, which is what the core business 
interruption cover required. 
AXA also said that M had not said that there had been an occurrence of a notifiable disease 
at Ms premises that had led to its closure. Subsequently, AXA noted that M had actually 
indicated that there had been such an occurrence. But said that even if M could provide 
evidence to demonstrate this had happened, AXA would only be willing to cover a couple of 
days worth of losses. This was because AXA considered that once the government-imposed 
national restrictions had been introduced, M would not have been able to trade regardless of 
whether there had been any occurrence of disease at Ms premises. 
M was not satisfied with this outcome and brought its complaint to our Service. However, our 
Investigator did not think Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought that the evidence M 
had provided did not demonstrate that it was more likely than not that there had been an 
occurrence of COVID-19 at Ms premises. He also did not think that the restrictions imposed 
by the UK and Welsh Governments was as a result of defective sanitation at Ms premises. 
As M remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on M, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that M closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy M took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ms policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ms business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ms claim. And I think AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ms claim under this area of cover.
Within the policy schedule document, Ms policy does include an extension to the business 
interruption section that provides cover where a disease or defective sanitation has led to the 
premises being closed. The clause reads:
Section B (Loss of Profits) is extended to include losses arising from the closure of 
the Premises by a competent authority due to an human notifiable infectious disease 
or food poisoning suffered by any visitor or employee or by defective sanitation 
vermin or pests at the Premises as specified in the schedule or by murder or suicide 
occurring at the Premises.
I will firstly set out my reasoning in relation to the disease element of this clause, and then 
consider the sanitation element.
Disease
COVID-19 is a human notifiable infectious disease and the actions taken which ultimately 
required M to close were those of a competent authority. I do disagree with the limitation of 
cover that AXA referred to when declining the claim. I think that, if a relevant occurrence of 
COVID-19 can be demonstrated to have occurred at Ms premises, this would likely have 
been one of the occurrences the Government took into account when introducing the 
restrictions that led to M being closed beyond 20 March 2020.
However, in order for this clause to provide M with cover, it must be shown that, effectively, 
the actions taken by the relevant authority were due in part to a visitor to or employee of M 
suffering from COVID-19 at Ms premises. It is for M to demonstrate that such an occurrence 
of COVID-19 most likely happened. 
M has said that one of its employees developed symptoms of COVID-19 and let M know 
about this, via text message on 18 March 2020. The employee had last been on Ms 
premises on 14 March. 
The text message sent to M from its employee says:
me and my family have been advised by the NHS111 to quarantine ourselves for 
14 days as there's symptoms of coronavirus in the household so I can't work this 
weekend and possibly next weekend.It does seem that M did believe there was a risk of its premises being impacted by this 
situation. M said to its broker at the time that it had contacted its local authority for advice on 
what action to take. However, it is not clear that the employee did actually have COVID-19.
Firstly, M has not confirmed what the symptoms were. As such, I am not persuaded that this 
message demonstrates these were most likely symptoms of COVID-19 rather than, for 
example, flu. As our Investigator has previously explained, we know that NHS 111 were 
taking a cautious approach at this point in time and advising anyone with symptoms that 
were covid-like to isolate as a precaution. It is likely that many of those provided with such 
advice did not in fact have COVID-19 though. 
Secondly, it also isnt clear from this message that the employee themselves suffered from 
any symptoms  as opposed to another member of the household. The language used, that 
there were symptoms in the household, is to my mind suggestive of these symptoms being 
suffered by someone else. Had the employee themselves had the symptoms, I think it is 
more likely that they would have said so. 
However, I do note that M has indicated that the employee had an antibody test at some 
point which apparently showed that theyd suffered with COVID-19. It hasnt been possible 
for this test result to be obtained, but I have nevertheless considered what such a test result 
would show.
It isnt clear when this antibody test was carried out. But this may have been as late as 2021. 
A test result as late as 2021 would merely show that the person had suffered COVID-19 at 
some time prior to then. And the greater the time between March 2020 and this positive test 
result, the less persuasive it would be that the disease had been suffered in March 2020. So, 
unless the test was undertaken reasonably soon after March 2020, I dont think that this 
result, even if it could be provided, would demonstrate that the individual in question had 
most likely suffered from COVID-19 in March 2020.
However, even if I am wrong about the points above and Ms employee was the one who 
suffered from symptoms, and that these were symptoms of COVID-19 that were experienced 
in March 2020, this does not demonstrate that this was suffered at Ms premises.
I think a person would be said to be suffering from a disease at the point in time they are 
displaying symptoms of the disease or are capable of being diagnosed as having it. 
M has said that the employee was at the premises on 14 March 2020 and M has not 
suggested that this employee suffered from any symptoms prior to 18 March 2020. So, I 
need to consider whether someone suffering from symptoms of COVID-19 on 18 March 
would have most likely had the disease on 14 March.
It is likely that a person would be diagnosable at some point prior to their symptoms 
developing. Had such a person been tested, a positive result might have been given before 
the time they displayed symptoms. However, in relation to the variant of COVID-19 that 
would have existed at the time relevant to this complaint, this is only likely within a period 1-3 
days prior to the person developing symptoms. 
M has referred to this period prior to symptoms being displayed as being 5-6 days. However, 
this is the period following exposure to the virus that leads to COVID-19. Following such 
exposure, it might take 5-6 days for symptoms to develop. But a person could not be said to 
have been suffering from the disease immediately upon exposure to the virus. And the 
evidence available to me indicates that the period of 1-3 days prior to symptoms is the 
earliest that a symptomatic person would be suffering from the disease. This means that a person on Ms premises four days prior to them developing symptoms, 
wouldnt have been likely suffering from the disease at the time they were at the premises.
In summary, I dont consider that M has demonstrated that it is more likely than not that its 
employee was suffering from COVID-19, or any other disease that then led to its premises 
being closed, at the time that employee was on the premises. It follows that I dont consider 
AXA acted inappropriately when declining Ms claim under this part of the clause above. 
Sanitation
The second part of the clause above that M has referred to requires the closure to be as a 
result of defective sanitation at the premises. M has said that the premises were closed, in 
effect, because it was not safe for the public to congregate in close proximity to one another. 
As such, it considers this part of the clause provides cover in the circumstances. 
It seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitation at Ms premises. 
In determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this case in terms 
of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ms policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Ms complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ms policy was entered in December 2019; a number of months before any restrictions were 
introduced in the UK in relation to COVID-19. And, whilst social distancing has been 
practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, it 
was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular 
wording of Ms policy in December 2019 would have considered this subclause to refer to an 
inability to enforce social distancing at Ms premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what M considers the defect at its premises actually was. As the 
judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of 
deficiency or fault. M is a bar and no evidence has been provided to suggest there was any 
deficiency or fault in its sanitation. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business 
 including the congregation of people in close proximity  can be called a defect, and 
certainly not a defect specific to Ms premises which led to its closure. I havent been 
provided with any evidence to suggest it was the circumstances at Ms premises in particular 
that led to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. For these reasons, I am satisfied AXAs decision to decline the claim was in line with the 
policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AXA should have met Ms claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Ms directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman