DRN-4461278
The complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his accounts without notice nor 
explanation. 
Mr S says this has caused him to miss creditor payments affecting his credit file, financial 
hardship, substantive distress, and inconvenience. Mr S wants Santander to pay him £5,000 
in compensation.   
What happened
In July 2023, Santander blocked Mr S access to his accounts. A little later Santander closed 
Mr S account with immediate effect. A letter notifying of Mr S of this was sent by Santander. 
Santander sent Mr S cheques for the closing balances. Unhappy with Santanders actions, 
Mr S complained. 
Santander did not uphold Mr S complaint. Santander said that it has decided to close Mr S 
accounts which it can do under the terms of the accounts and its not obliged to provide a 
reason. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr S 
complaint, and they recommended it isnt upheld. In summary, they made the following key 
findings: 
- Santander is entitled to close its customers accounts and it isnt required to give an 
explanation 
- Santander acted in line with the terms and conditions when making its decision 
- As Santander was acting in line with its obligations, it isnt responsible for any losses 
Mr S suffered 
Mr S did not agree with our Investigator. In addition to points he made previously, he added 
that he called Santander six times, and no one could help him, and he lost out on interest on 
the money held in his accounts.
As Mr S didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Having carefully considered the information Santander has sent me, Im satisfied it has acted 
in line with its wider legal and regulatory obligations when restricting Mr S accounts. 
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr S had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Santander, and its terms and conditions, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to close the account in the way that it has done. 
I know Mr S would like an explanation for why Santander took the actions it did. But I am not 
aware of any obligation under which it must. Id also add that our rules allow us to receive 
evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Santander has provided is information we consider 
should be kept confidential.
Mr S says this matter has caused him financial loss and has had an adverse impact on his 
credit file as he was unable to make regular creditor payments. He also says it has caused 
him significant distress and inconvenience. 
I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused him difficulty in the way he explains. But having 
looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make 
an award against Santander given that I dont think its done anything wrong when blocking 
and then closing his accounts.  
So Im not going to ask Santander to compensate Mr S for any financial loss nor distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. I also note that Mr S had some difficulty in getting 
information regards his blocks and closures from Santanders staff. Given Santanders 
reasons for its actions, Im persuaded it did nothing wrong in not giving him an explanation or 
better information. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman