DRN-3158562
The complaint
Mr L complains MBNA Limited incorrectly input his address on their systems.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
MBNA has sent us screenshots from their systems that shows Mr Ls address was 
updated to the format complained about, on the same day his credit card account 
was opened. And the details were updated online. I appreciate Mr L says he wouldnt 
have inputted his address in the format complained about, but the evidence suggests 
the changes were made by him. And Ive seen nothing to explain why MBNA would 
have changed the address without input from Mr L.
Ive seen copies of all statements MBNA sent to Mr L, from account opening  to the 
date he complained. The address was in the complained about format in each of 
them. Mr L hasnt complained about problems receiving his statements, so Im 
satisfied they were all received by him  despite the mistake with his address. But 
I was pleased to see MBNA changed Mr Ls address to the correct format, the day 
after he raised his complaint. And fortunately, this was before any further 
correspondence was sent to him. This demonstrates MBNA took Mr Ls concerns 
seriously; and is what I would have expected them to do in the circumstances.
When Mr L spotted the mistake with his address, he was understandably concerned 
about the safety of his personal data. And fortunately, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest his personal details got into the wrong hands. While I appreciate Mr Ls 
concerns, I dont agree that he needs to be compensated for what happened. This is 
partly due to the points Ive detailed above. But secondly, it wasnt until Mr L received 
his fourth monthly statement from MBNA that he noticed a problem with his address. 
This means MBNA couldnt have fixed things any sooner. Therefore, while Ive noted 
what Mr L has told us about his concerns regarding his personal data, Im not 
persuaded the impact was so severe it warrants compensation. 
For these reasons, while I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr L hoped for, I dont consider 
MBNA needs to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman