DRN-2780630
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) didnt make him fully aware of 
the implications of exceeding the lifetime allowance (LTA) with his pension funds. He says it 
didnt forewarn him of the consequences, which now means any benefits taken from his 
personal pensions will be subject to a significant tax charge. He estimates that over a 
25 year period the extra tax applied will cost him around £75,000 and he wants Wesleyan to 
compensate him for that loss.
What happened
Mr K worked for the NHS and was a member of its Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
But instead of paying for added years to enhance his OPS Mr K took out personal pensions 
with Wesleyan in 1991 and 1997.The Wesleyan plans also contained Guaranteed Annuity 
Rates. 
In 2011 Wesleyan sent a generic mailshot to its customer base about the forthcoming 
changes to the annual and lifetime allowances. It invited people to request a review of their 
current position with an adviser. Unfortunately, this letter was sent to Mr Ks previous 
address and was returned unopened to Wesleyan.
In the same year, following a conversation between Mr K and an adviser, Wesleyan sent 
Mr K an email to confirm that his pension funds were within the existing £1.8 million Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA) and were also below the forthcoming reduced LTA of £1.5 million  
although it recommended that he should stop his current payments into one of the personal 
pensions and draw his benefits at age 60. At that time Mr K was only contributing to a free 
standing additional voluntary contribution plan, which he then stopped paying into from 
August 2012. 
In 2013 Mr K contacted Wesleyan to ask for advice around the LTA. In his response the 
adviser said he understood Mr K had taken his pension with NHS and Wesleyan, but asked 
Mr K to provide a value for the NHS pension to allow him to conduct a full assessment. He 
recommended that Mr K applied for fixed protection of the LTA at £1.5 million. 
In April 2014 Wesleyan sent Mr K a suitability report about his circumstances at that time. 
The report followed a letter regarding conversations Mr K had with Wesleyan, but no 
recommendation was made, and no follow up appointment was carried out.
In October 2014 Mr K received around £185,000 as a tax free lump sum from his NHS 
pension. 
In 2015 Mr K was contacted by a new adviser who has since left Wesleyan. Over the 
following years the adviser kept in touch with Mr K and several appointments were arranged 
 but no notes were available which suggested the appointments dont appear to have been 
completed. 
But, in 2019 the adviser did visit Mr K and made him aware of the current LTA, and Mr Ks 
own LTA position. As a result, Mr K asked Wesleyan to provide evidence of all their 
interactions over the years. Subsequently Mr K decided to complain. He said he was 
unhappy that he hadnt been advised to apply for fixed or individual protection and that as a 
result of that his personal pension payments would now be reduced as he had exceeded the 
LTA. He also thought Wesleyan should have done more to contact him following its letter 
from March 2011 being sent to a previous address. 
Wesleyan said its adviser had contacted Mr K in 2011 and 2013 to advise him about the LTA 
and advised him to apply for fixed protection. It said the adviser hadnt heard back from 
Mr K. It confirmed a marketing letter had been sent to his (incorrect) address in 2011 but 
thought the subject matter had been covered by the advisers email from 2011. And it also 
said that it couldnt find any evidence of the meetings Mr K said hed had with a previous 
adviser who no longer worked at the company. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to this service where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. But he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said it was Mr K that raised the issue of the LTA in 2013 and Mr K accepted that 
hed had regular reviews since 2015. So he thought that, on balance, Mr K failed to respond 
to the advice given in the 2013 emails and also that the LTA would have been discussed in 
later conversations. 
Mr K didnt agree and made the following points:
Hed made it clear to the adviser that important communication should be by phone 
or post. He made it clear that he generally doesnt read his emails. 
We hadnt taken into account the information hed sent us on a memory stick which 
had become lost. 
The letter Wesleyan sent in 2011  which contained crucial information about the 
LTA, was sent to the wrong address and returned to sender.
The appointment that Mr K arranged in September 2013 had been cancelled and 
wasnt rescheduled. He thought the onus should have been on the adviser to 
reschedule the appointment. Mr K said his diary didnt show any appointment with 
the adviser for December 2013 or the whole of 2014.  
Wesleyan hadnt written to him about the possibility of exceeding the LTA at any 
point in the previous 11 or 12 years. He thought Wesleyan had a duty of care to keep 
him updated about such matters and it took a prompt from him in 2013 to start 
discussing the matter.
He thought our investigator had been dismissive of his complaint from the outset 
because he formed an opinion that Mr K hadnt exceeded the LTA. He said this was 
based on the amount of the allowance that had been used up by his OPS and 
without including the value of his personal plans with Wesleyan.
The investigator then made further enquiries and became aware of a suitability report Mr K 
was sent in 2014. In it Wesleyan noted that Mr Ks pension fund value was in excess of the 
then LTA but it didnt advise Mr K to apply for LTA protection. So the investigator thought 
that Wesleyan should calculate any tax charge Mr K would suffer when he took his benefits, 
but only between the allowance for Individual Protection (IP)14 and Fixed Protection (FP)16 
 as he said Mr K should apply for FP16 and mitigate his position.
Mr K says hes now tried to do this, but Wesleyan wants to charge him for such advice. He 
says he asked further questions about Wesleyans responsibilities to have kept him updated 
about the LTA and any subsequent changes to its amount, but he says Wesleyan has been evasive with its answers. So he believes it did have a legal obligation to keep him informed  
which it hasnt done.
On 26 March 2020 Mr Ks personal pensions were valued at £129,303 and £218,200 
respectively. A P60 for the year ended April 2020 showed his NHS pension was £67,967 per 
annum and equated to 94.4% of his standard LTA. This was due to a rise the following tax 
year. Mr K says he started to draw his NHS pension on 14 April 2020. 
Mr K has since told us that he intends to cash in his Wesleyan plans of around £350,000 on 
31 March 2021.
As no resolution has been found the complaint was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ks complaint shouldnt be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my assessment:
There was no evidence that Wesleyan was obliged to review Mr Ks financial 
situation each year. It didnt have an advisory relationship with him, although it could 
still provide advice when required. So, it wasnt required to contact him regularly to 
discuss issues such as the LTA.
But Wesleyan was required to give correct information and advice if Mr K requested 
it.
Wesleyan did contact Mr K by email in 2011 and 2013. The 2011 email was clear in 
that it followed a previous conversation and Mr K accepted he received  but didnt 
read  the 2013 email. 
The 2013 email asked Mr K for some further information about his pensions but did 
end by saying my initial recommendation is to apply for fixed protection to protect 
yourself up to £1.5 million as this limit will reduce in April 2014 to £1.25 million and 
make the reduction if applicable more. A subsequent face to face appointment was 
cancelled and not rearranged, but I thought if Mr K had provided the required 
information the adviser would most likely have rearranged the appointment  during 
which the subject of the LTA would likely have been discussed further.
But in any case, the email set out a clear recommendation to apply for FP and the 
previous email in 2011 had also recommended that Mr K should stop his personal 
pension contributions in case he exceeded the new LTA from 2012. So I thought 
Wesleyan had made Mr K aware of the LTA and the potential impact on his own 
pension funds. 
Wesleyan seemed to have provided a suitability report to Mr K in 2014 which 
contained a factual inaccuracy about the LTA and his potential liability. I thought 
there were circumstances in which someone might decide not to protect their LTA 
based on this information. But, based on the evidence Id seen, where Mr K had no 
recollection of the report or having had an appointment with an adviser from the 
Wesleyan, and that he hadnt acted on the previous advice to apply for FP  I thought 
it was unlikely the provision of incorrect information would have caused him not to 
apply for FP in this case.
Wesleyan should have been clearer about the report and why it had been sent (it 
said it was a computer generated report) but I didnt think it made any difference to 
the eventual outcome here.
I thought there was evidence to show that Wesleyan kept in touch with Mr K after 
2014 and wanted to arrange appointments with him  but the lack of information it 
was able to gather meant it didnt make any recommendations. I said that if Mr K was unaware of the need to protect his pension funds from 
changes in the LTA, I didnt think Wesleyan was responsible for this. 
Mr K referred to a letter from Wesleyan that was sent to the wrong address. Mr K 
said this was a missed opportunity for him to learn about the LTA changes and 
should have been followed up. But I saw that the letter was a generic marketing letter 
and not specific to Mr K, so I didnt think Wesleyan should have done more to follow 
it up. I also thought the content of the letter had been covered in the subsequent 
email it sent advising him to take some action to prevent him exceeding the new LTA. 
I hadnt seen any evidence to show that Mr K opted out of any means of 
communication with Wesleyan, so I didnt think it was wrong for Wesleyan to 
communicate with Mr K by email. I hadnt seen anything to show that Wesleyan was 
restricted in its means of communication with Mr K. In addition, I thought that the 
emails Mr K was sent were a reflection of what had already been discussed with him 
verbally. 
Wesleyan didnt have anything further to add to my provisional decision, but Mr K didnt 
agree and made the following points in response:
He thought the email from 2013 contained meaningless language and wasnt clear 
in explaining the serious financial consequences of not acting on the advice. He 
thought this was in breach of the consumers act 2015.
The marketing letter that was sent to the wrong address was written in a clear way 
and would have led him to act on its advice.
He questioned which correspondence from 2013 stated that he should apply for FP 
of £1.5 million. 
He hadnt been able to get copies of the outstanding telephone calls from Wesleyan 
 who was still investigating the matter. He wanted to know the implications if the 
calls were found after my final decision. 
He disagreed when I said there was no evidence to show Wesleyan had an 
obligation to review his finances each year. He said Wesleyans advisers had a duty 
to provide him with appropriate financial advice when required.
He disagreed with my conclusion over the report Wesleyan had produced in 2014 
which contained incorrect information. He thought there was a requirement to give 
him, as the consumer, the benefit of the doubt in this case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Mr Ks further points and submissions I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. I know this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr K, and 
I have some sympathy for his position here, but I dont think Wesleyan has done anything 
wrong  so Ill reiterate my reasons in answering Mr Ks further points.
Mr K said it wasnt possible to make a final decision on his complaint without having heard 
all the telephone conversations he had with Wesleyan, which hed requested some months 
ago. So I asked Wesleyan to provide those calls and Ive listened very carefully to them. But 
I dont think they make any material difference to Mr Ks complaint. I say that because the 
majority of over 40 calls involved information and advice about home insurance, mortgages, 
and insurance for Mr Ks place of work. 
The remaining calls were from Wesleyan to arrange dates for Mr K to meet with his adviser 
and also around retirement quotes to draw the benefits from his plan as an annuity. Theres no evidence to suggest that any of the calls involved the subject of Mr Ks complaint, so I 
cant reasonably say they had or would have any bearing on its outcome. 
Mr K said that the email from 2013 wasnt clear in highlighting the financial consequences of 
not acting on its advice. But I think the message from Wesleyan was quite clear. my initial 
recommendation is to apply for fixed protection to protect yourself up to £1.5 million as this 
limit will reduce in April 2014 to £1.25 million and make the reduction if applicable more. 
This was a clear message to apply for fixed protection or there might be a reduction in the 
value of Mr Ks pension fund. Wesleyan wouldnt have known how much the reduction might 
be as that would have depended on the excess fund above the LTA and the HMRC 
penalties in place at the time. But I think it did highlight that there would be financial 
consequences. I would have expected Mr K to have posed further questions if he was 
unsure what the effect might be on his fund of breaching the LTA.
Mr K did say that hed previously asked Wesleyan to communicate with him by letter, so he 
hadnt taken notice of the 2013 email. But I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Wesleyan said it would only communicate with Mr K by letter  or that hed opted out of any 
particular communication method. And I have noted, during a number of his telephone 
conversations with Wesleyan, that Mr K asked it to confirm details of appointments and 
insurance quotes by email. So I dont think its reasonable to suggest that Mr K had an 
agreement with Wesleyan that it shouldnt communicate with him by email. 
Mr K said that Wesleyan had an obligation to provide him with financial advice when 
required  and I agree that Wesleyan would have provided Mr K with advice, at the cost of a 
deduction from his funds, when required. But I dont think Wesleyan had any obligation to 
provide annual reviews or a regular review service. Mr K hadnt opted in for such an 
ongoing advisory relationship so he would have needed to contact Wesleyan for advice on a 
transactional basis when necessary. And I note that Wesleyan arranged a number of general 
insurances, loans and a mortgage for him during this time. 
But Wesleyan did have a duty to provide Mr K with correct advice and information if he 
requested it  or even if Wesleyan approached Mr K to see if he wanted to review his plans. 
And as Ive said in my provisional decision, I think Wesleyan did this in respect of the LTA 
issues that had arisen around that time. Ultimately, I think the information Wesleyan 
provided in 2011 and 2013 did make Mr K aware of impending changes to the LTA which 
would impact his retirement provision, and I think Wesleyan was clear in recommending that 
Mr K should stop his personal pension contributions in 2011 and apply for fixed protection in 
2013. 
Mr K also says that the incorrectly addressed general mailshot letter from 2011 was clear in 
its content and he would have acted upon its advice if hed received it. And I can understand 
Mr Ks frustration at not receiving the letter which did set out legislative changes to annual 
and lifetime allowances. But I dont think this made any difference to Mr Ks actions around 
the LTA because the same information was set out to him personally a short time later  and 
he didnt act upon that more specific recommendation. And Wesleyan simply didnt hold the 
correct address for Mr K, so the letter was unable to reach him. As it was a generic mailshot, 
I dont think its reasonable to expect Wesleyan to have followed up such a marketing 
exercise with all its customers to ensure receipt, particularly as the same information was 
sent to Mr K soon afterwards by his adviser.
Mr K has made reference to Wesleyans 2014 suitability report. He doesnt agree with the 
conclusion I drew and says, if incorrect information was provided, he should be given the 
benefit of doubt over the report. 
And, as I said in my provisional decision, I was unclear about the provision of the report. I 
was concerned that it did give some factual inaccuracies about Mr Ks total pension fund values exceeding the LTA, but not incurring any tax liability. But Ive taken into account the 
covering letter Wesleyan provided with the report which explained that it shouldnt be taken 
as financial advice, and that Mr K had no recollection of the report or any advice around this 
time. But even if I am wrong about that, Mr K took no action to either stop his contributions 
when recommended to do so or to apply for fixed protection in 2013. So Im not persuaded 
that he would have acted upon the suitability report in 2014.  
In summary I think Wesleyan, until April 2014, provided Mr K with correct information and 
advice regarding his position with the LTA. And it also requested further information, which 
Mr K didnt provide, in order to expand on that advice. So, I cant reasonably say Wesleyan 
was responsible for Mr K being unaware of the need to protect his funds in the event of him 
breaching the LTA. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman