DRN-3161749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly by declining their 
application to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Barclays in late 2013. They borrowed just under 
£130,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 14 years. The mortgage had a linked 
savings account into which Mr and Mrs M could deposit savings that would be offset against 
the mortgage  reducing their monthly interest repayments.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M applied to port their mortgage to a different property. Their 
mortgage was fully offset at that point, meaning Mr and Mrs Ms monthly repayments were 
minimal.
Mr and Mrs M were buying their new property for less than they were selling their old 
property for  so were releasing equity. But they wanted to keep their mortgage in place for 
the remaining term that was originally agreed, as this fitted in with their retirement plans. I 
understand they were not using any of the money in their offset savings account. And they 
said theyd reduce the mortgage balance to £93,000, so that the loan to value ratio remained 
as it was on their existing property at the time they were applying, if Barclays required. 
Barclays underwriting notes confirm this was discussed.
Barclays declined the application. It has told our service this was because there wasnt 
enough evidence of Mr and Mrs Ms income - as they were retiring and drawing from their 
pensions, which they hadnt begun to do yet. So, it felt the mortgage was unaffordable. It 
also said it fell outside of its lending criteria in relation to interest only mortgages.
Mr and Mrs M were able to complete the purchase of their new property without a mortgage, 
by using some funds intended for their retirement. However, they were unhappy with 
Barclays decision not to port their mortgage, so raised a complaint.
Barclays didnt think it had made an error, so the complaint was referred to our service. 
Mr and Mrs M explained that they would still like the mortgage to be reinstated on the 
original terms as if it had been ported. They said they were happy for this to be at the lower 
borrowing amount of approximately £93,000 which they were discussing at the time.
One of our investigators looked into matters. She thought Barclays had acted unfairly by 
declining the application to port. She felt it hadnt considered the relevant rules put in place 
by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which meant an assessment of 
affordability and repayment strategy for an interest only mortgage could be set aside here. 
And, if it had, she thought the application wouldve been approved. To put things right she 
said Barclays should pay £500 for the inconvenience caused and, as Mr and Mrs M still 
wanted the mortgage, should now reinstate the mortgage, as if it had been ported.
Barclays agreed to pay the £500 for the distress caused. And it said it would consider an 
application for a new mortgage. But it said it wouldnt agree to simply set the mortgage up on 
the original terms.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was inclined to reach a 
different outcome to our Investigator. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, 
explaining why.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer from 2013 confirmed that the mortgage was portable, subject 
to Barclays lending criteria at the time they applied to port. Barclays has said that this 
application did not meet its lending criteria - particularly around affordability.
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, particularly around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly.
The FCA recognised though that this could impact existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. These rules are 
set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment or apply the new rules around affordability assessments, if a borrower wants to 
vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other than for 
product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that affect its affordability.
The rules do not say that a lender must waive its affordability assessment. But Im of the 
view that, if in the circumstances it can, it wouldnt necessarily be fair to decline the 
application on this basis.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ms request to port their mortgage 
would be one where MCOB 11.6.3 could be applied. They werent looking to borrow more 
money  in fact they were willing to reduce the outstanding balance. They were also not 
looking to change any of the other terms of their mortgage, which was already in place. 
Theyve also said, which I agree with, Barclays was aware of their intentions regarding 
retirement age, when agreeing to the original mortgage. And were willing to offer the original 
mortgage on the basis that theyd be paying it from their pension for several years at the end 
of the term.
So, taking everything into account, Im of the opinion that it wasnt fair for Barclays to decline 
the application to port on the grounds of affordability.
Barclays has also suggested the application did not meet its criteria in relation to a suitable 
repayment strategy for clearing the interest only balance, at the time it was made.
The transitional arrangements introduced as part of MMR also address this scenario. MCOB 
11.7.3 essentially explains that a lender can forego an assessment of the repayment 
strategy, in line with the new rules, if the mortgage was taken out prior to 26 April 2014 (as I 
believe was the case here), there was no additional borrowing being requested or taken 
since 26 April 2014 (which again based on what Ive seen hasnt happened here) and the 
proposed transaction was in the borrowers interests.And based on what Ive seen, I think the transaction was arguably in Mr and Mrs Ms 
interest. Having the mortgage would mean that they were paying interest for several years  
which they wouldnt have done buying the property outright, which theyve evidenced they 
were able to do. But the mortgage was fully offset, with the monthly payments totalling less 
than £100 per year for the three years before the mortgage was repaid. And I understand 
that they intended for it to remain in the position  fully offset. So that cost, was minimal.
Keeping the mortgage in place meant they wouldnt have needed to use some of their 
retirement provisions before they had planned to. Meaning those provisions could continue 
to accrue interest.
And the risk to Mr and Mrs M seems to have been low. They had savings with Barclays 
equivalent to the outstanding mortgage balance, as it was fully offset, which I understand 
they intended to leave in place. Theyve also said they released a significant amount of 
equity from moving property. And they had their pension income  which theyve confirmed 
they are now receiving and that the amount being received is in fact higher than they 
believed it to be at the point of applying to port their mortgage.
So again, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was fair of Barclays to decline the 
application to port on this basis.
Barclays has provided its underwriting notes which suggest it also felt that because Mr and 
Mrs M were able to pay off the mortgage when moving, but preferred not to, that it was right 
to decline the application, rather than Barclays agree to the risk of lending. But Barclays was 
already on risk as such as there was already a mortgage in place. It had agreed to enter 
into a mortgage over a term of 14 years, when initially agreeing to the lending. Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs M had a valid reason for wanting to continue with the arrangement. And so, I 
dont think this stance by Barclays is fair or reasonable.
With all of this in mind I dont think any of the reasons Barclays has given for declining the 
application are fair here. So, I think it has made an error.
As a result, Ive thought about what Barclays should do to put things right.
Mr and Mrs M have said theyd like the mortgage to be put in place as if it had been ported  
and that they were happy for this to be at the reduced borrowing amount they were 
discussing with Barclays at the time, as noted in its underwriting notes. And our Investigator 
felt this would be fair. But I dont think it would.
Underwriting criteria for mortgage applications involve a number of different things. And dont 
just involve an assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms finances. As part of the application, Barclays 
would also need to assess the new property that the mortgage was being secured against to 
ensure it met its lending criteria. Which doesnt appear to have happened here. I know the 
intended loan to value ration was very low  it appears to have been less than 10% - 
suggesting the chances of the application not proceeding because of this were also low. But 
the loan-to-value isnt the only part of a lenders assessment of a property and its suitability 
as a security.In addition, while I think Barclays had grounds to set aside an in-depth assessment of the 
repayment vehicle for the interest only borrowing here, Im conscious that the mortgage offer 
issued in 2013 notes that the intended repayment vehicle for the mortgage is the sale of the 
mortgaged property. Which obviously can no longer be the repayment strategy after the 
mortgage is ported. So, I think it is fair that there would need to be some assessment of the 
new intended repayment strategy, as there would have to be a new documents strategy. 
And this would need to be based on Barclays up to date lending criteria, albeit MCOB 11.7.3 
would appear to allow this to be less in-depth. Which again has not happened.
With this in mind, while Barclays has in my view made errors and used unfair reasons for 
declining the porting application, I cant say on balance that without this the application 
wouldve succeeded. So, I dont think it would be right for me to say that the mortgage 
should simply be reinstated.
Barclays has said it is willing to consider a further application. Which in principle I think is fair 
in the circumstances. The error was that the application wasnt fairly or correctly considered. 
So, doing so again would appear reasonable.
Barclays has said Mr and Mrs M would need to choose a new mortgage product when 
applying. But Mr and Mrs M applied to port their mortgage product. That application was 
declined for unfair reasons by Barclays. So, I think the correct way to put that right is that 
they be able to apply on the same terms, and for that application to be correctly 
reconsidered. And I dont think itd be fair for Mr and Mrs M to be charged any fees or costs 
(including Barclays legal costs) over and above those they wouldve incurred as part of the 
porting application. So, I think Barclays should waive these.
In the event they re-apply on the original terms, and the application were successful, there 
will likely be legal costs involved with putting the mortgage in place  particularly in relation 
to registering a charge as security for the mortgage. Had Barclays not incorrectly declined 
the application to port, I think its likely any work required by Mr and Mrs Ms legal 
representative wouldve been carried out as part of the purchase of their new property. So, if 
the application does succeed and Mr and Mrs M incur further cost now from their solicitors, I 
think Barclays should cover those costs. As, if this is how events now turn out, they wouldnt 
otherwise have been incurred were it not for Barclays error.
If Mr and Mrs M would prefer to apply under different terms and choose a new mortgage 
product, then they are free to do so. But in that case, I think Barclays would be entitled to 
treat the matter as a new application and charge the relevant fees.
Id reiterate though that I think it is fair that Barclays reconsider an application, with the 
conditions Ive listed above. That doesnt mean that it must accept one. And I accept, given 
that they have now moved home and are mortgage free, Mr and Mrs M may choose not to 
proceed with a further application. But either way, I do think Barclays agreeing to look at the 
application again is fair, if they still wish to proceed.
I dont doubt that the application being declined was disruptive to Mr and Mrs Ms plans. 
Theyve explained this caused them distress, coming unexpectedly as it did, and 
inconvenience, in having to make alternative arrangements to complete the purchase of the 
property. And having to make another application now will also cause further inconvenience.
I think itd be fair for Barclays to make a payment to address the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Our Investigator recommended, and Barclays agreed to pay, £500 to address this.Mr and Mrs M have indicated that they dont think this goes far enough and have mentioned 
having to make last minute changes to their plans with their solicitor and make alternative 
funding arrangements, by using some of their intended retirement provisions. I appreciate 
having to change their plans at short notice wouldve been distressing. And as Ive said, Im 
satisfied that the reasons Barclays rejected the application are unfair. So, it has caused this 
distress through its actions. Im conscious though that, while Mr and Mrs M have had to alter 
their plans, they are now mortgage free. And while theyve said they didnt intend to be in 
that position now, theyd have needed to take steps to pay back the mortgage at the end of 
the term anyway. So, while theyve had to accelerate their plans, it could be argued that this 
was in fact to their benefit.
As Ive said though, I do appreciate theyll be further inconvenienced if they choose to re- 
apply for a mortgage. Which I dont think was factored into our Investigators findings. So, 
taking everything into account, I think an increased payment of £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused would be fair and reasonable, in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Barclays said it accepted my provisional decision and said, if Mr and Mrs M did want to re-
apply it would arrange for a mortgage adviser to contact them.
Mr and Mrs M said they felt my decision was based on a firm understanding of their 
complaint. But they still had concerns with what I had suggested.
They said Barclays had at no time made them aware of the reasons for initially declining 
their application, which they felt couldve been easily addressed if it had. And they said 
Barclays had at no point raised concerns about a survey of the property or repayment plan - 
the two aspects of lending criteria Id highlighted as potentially still needing to be addressed. 
So, they were concerned that Barclays would just go through the motions and reject their 
application again without explaining why, even though Mr and Mrs M considered there to be 
no issue with these perceived areas of risk. And they said theyd like my findings to give 
more assurances that this wouldnt happen.
They also asked that we oversee Barclays response to the decision to ensure it acted fairly. 
And have questioned what options are available if they think Barclays is not following my 
decision and asked that I set a short time frame for the application process to be concluded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about the matter again and considered everything both parties have said, Im 
not inclined to depart from the overall conclusions in my provisional decision.
As I explained in my provisional findings, I dont think Barclays acted fairly by rejecting 
Mr and Mrs Ms application to port their mortgage, for the reasons that it did. But I couldnt 
say on balance that the application would have succeeded if not for this error  because 
there are other things Barclays would need to consider, that hadnt been fully explored here. 
That is why my findings were different to our Investigator, in so much as I think Barclays 
agreeing to reconsider the matter is fair.If Mr and Mrs M choose to proceed with a review, and the application were successful, I 
think itd be fair for Barclays to cover any costs that wouldnt otherwise have been incurred.
And I agree that this whole matter has caused Mr and Mrs M unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, and that in the event they do ask for Barclays to reconsider the matter, they 
will have to expend further time dealing with this than they might otherwise have done. But I 
remain of the opinion that a payment of £600 is a fair way to address this.
And again, my provisional findings were not that Barclays must lend. They were that it was 
fair it reconsiders matters - taking into account my findings, which address the reasons it has 
currently declined the application and why these were unfair.
I highlighted two issues in my provisional findings that Barclays has suggested it would still 
need to think about. But that isnt to say that these are the only things that needed to be 
considered before Barclays would lend in this case. Im sorry if my highlighting these issues 
caused some confusion, but I did so because these were issues that were clear to me that 
were outstanding. 
Im satisfied it is fair that Barclays would need to review the application in full, taking into 
account my findings. But it would also be entitled to satisfy itself that the application met its 
other lending criteria, which is commercially sensitive and not something I am privy to in full. 
That is why I didnt think it would be fair of Barclays to simply put the mortgage in place as if 
it had been ported and why I felt it fair that it reconsiders the matter. And I remain of that 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs M have said they do not believe there will be any issues in meeting Barclays 
requirements in relation to the two areas I did highlight. But I cant guarantee this for them. 
That is a matter for Barclays to review, in line with its lending criteria, when it reconsiders 
matters  assuming Mr and Mrs M do choose to ask it to do so. And again, these arent 
necessarily the only lending criteria remaining that need to be satisfied.
Mr and Mrs M have said that they are concerned that Barclays will not follow my decision. 
But again, Im not saying that Barclays must provide the mortgage they asked for. Im saying 
that it must reconsider the matter, taking into account what Ive said. Barclays has said it will 
do this and is happy to arrange for a mortgage adviser to contact Mr and Mrs M. So, it 
appears that it is intending to act in line with my findings. And again, I cant assure Mr and 
Mrs M that the application will be successful  as Im not requiring Barclays to lend.
Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs M have said about Barclays not clearly explaining the 
reasons for originally declining their application. And looking at the information available to 
me, I agree, Barclays couldve been clearer about this. The underwriting notes it has 
provided to our service include a lot more detail about why this decision was taken than 
Barclays seems to have provided to Mr and Mrs M. I appreciate that Barclays lending criteria 
is commercially sensitive. And I wouldnt expect it to share that in full. But I think it couldve 
done better here and been clearer with Mr and Mrs M about why, in their specific 
circumstances, it wasnt willing to lend. And Id expect it to be clearer in respect of their 
further application  if they decide to make one.
My decision is the end of our involvement in their complaint. It isnt part of our role to 
represent consumers. And it wouldnt be right for our service to oversee their new application 
 not least because, as I say Barclays is entitled to consider it in line with its lending criteria. 
Nor would it be right for me to impose time restraints on Barclays for the entire application 
process and review to be completed, as it is fair that Barclays review this matter in line with 
its usual processes.Mr and Mrs M have asked what they can do if Barclays do not act in line with my decision. If 
Mr and Mrs M accept my decision it becomes legally binding on both parties. So, theyd be 
entitled to apply to enforce the decision in a court of law. But again, I need to be clear that I 
am not requiring Barclays to lend.
I would expect Barclays to begin the application process promptly. It has said, if Mr and 
Mrs M accept my decision and wish to proceed with an application, it will arrange for an 
adviser to contact them. And I think itd be reasonable to expect that to happen promptly  
and certainly within four weeks of Barclays receiving confirmation Mr and Mrs M accept my 
decision, if they do, and wish to proceed. Barclays wouldnt though be required to take any 
further action if Mr and Mrs M do not accept my decision. 
Once the application is reviewed again, in the event it was unsuccessful, as Ive said Id 
expect Barclays to clearly explain the reasons why to Mr and Mrs M. And if they are unhappy 
with how that application was reviewed by Barclays, theyd be entitled to raise another 
complaint and potentially escalate the matter to our service if they were unhappy with 
Barclays response to this. Mr and Mrs M have indicated they dont think this is reasonable. 
But as the review of the application Barclays would be undertaking is a new and separate 
activity, it would need to be treated as a separate dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in part.
To put things right I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to;
Pay Mr and Mrs M £600 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them.
In the event Mr and Mrs M still wish to take out a mortgage on the same terms that 
they applied to port, Barclays should fairly reconsider that application, bearing in 
mind my findings above. And it should contact Mr and Mrs M to start the application 
process promptly  within four weeks of them confirming they wish to proceed.
In the event the further application succeeds, Barclays must cover any fees, charges 
or legal costs over and above what Mr and Mrs M wouldve paid if the original 
application had been approved.
If the application was still unsuccessful, Barclays must clearly explain why to Mr and 
Mrs M.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman