DRN-3471585
The complaint
Company I complains about Revolut Ltds decision to close its account.
What happened
In February 2021, Revolut reviewed company Is account and decided to close it. They gave 
company I notice but didnt give it an explanation or an opportunity to appeal the decision. 
Company I said this left it in a difficult position as it couldnt use its account. 
Company I complained to Revolut but they didnt change their decision. Revolut closed the 
account once company I had removed the money which was left in it in March 2021. 
Company I brought the complaint to our service. While company Is complaint was waiting to 
be investigated, Revolut offered it a payment of £20 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint. Company I rejected this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Revolut were entitled to close the account in 
the way they did. She didnt ask Revolut to do anything differently. Company I remained 
unhappy  it wanted its account to be reinstated.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed company Is account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if company I decided to stop banking with Revolut, it wouldnt have to explain why. 
Revolut can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and 
conditions of the account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial 
discretion unless we think theyve acted unfairly. Revolut have relied on, and complied with, 
the terms and conditions when closing company Is account and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
I appreciate the company I now finds itself in a difficult position and it wants the account 
reinstated. But its up to Revolut who they hold as a customer, and they made the decision to 
exit company I as a customer as theyre entitled to do. Therefore, I cant uphold the 
complaint in the way company I would like me to.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask company I to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman