DRN-1692495
The complaint
Mr C says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
What happened
Mr C bought the policies in 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card and in 2006 at 
the same time as applying for a balance transfer. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mr C took out the credit card online in 2004. During the application he had to select a yes or 
no box to indicate whether he wanted PPI. He couldnt proceed with his application until hed 
selected one of the boxes. In 2006, Mr C went through a similar online process while 
applying for a balance transfer, and ticked the yes box to say he wanted PPI. So, I think 
Canada Square made Mr C aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
the policies didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policies couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped 
him buying them. 
But Canada Square has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because 
it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr C about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.
To put that right, Canada Square has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer 
is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments, including what hes said about his level of sick 
pay. He initially said he had three months sick pay, and only changed this after our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint and explained to Mr C why that level of sick pay 
didn't make a difference. The level of sick pay he now says he had was unusually generous, 
and hes unable to provide evidence to confirm it. So, I dont think I can reasonably uphold 
this complaint based purely on what Mr C now says. 
Putting things right
Canada Square has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Canada Square should also pay back to Mr C any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Canada Square should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr C the difference 
between what Mr C owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Canada Square should also pay Mr C 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he 
doesn't pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman