DRN-3690717
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy a claim made for storm damage under his home insurance policy has been 
declined by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
In February 2022 there was a storm and Mr M reported damage to his roof to QIC, his home 
insurance provider.
QIC inspected the roof. Whilst QIC accepted there were storm conditions at the time, they 
didnt think that the storm was the dominant cause of damage. So, QIC declined Mr Ms 
claim.
Mr M was unhappy with QICs position, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed there 
were storm conditions, but based on the expert reports and photos provided, she thought the 
likely cause of damage was gradual deterioration, highlighted by the weather, which is 
excluded under Mr Ms policy.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC accept there were storm conditions and it met the definition of a storm as defined in 
Mr Ms policy, thats not in dispute, so I dont need to make a decision about that. And roof 
tiles could be damaged in a storm, in the right conditions, so that potentially satisfies 
question two.
However, QIC has declined the claim on the basis of the surveyors conclusions and photos:
We could evidence that the properties roof is in a (sic) aged condition with varying 
missing mortar to ridges and hip items of the property. There are also what appears 
pre existing roof tiles missing given the weathering of the crack (sic) tiled edges.
The recent weather has highlighted age related defects to the roof covering being the 
occasion rather than the cause of the damage.
The condition of the external property is poor and UW (underwriters) may want to 
review given breach of policy conditions ie you must make sure your buildings are 
maintained in a good state of repair.
And following a further review, QIC also said:
The damage is not consistent with a one off storm peril. Reviewing the photos 
provided, the damage to the hip and ridge tiles is mortar failure. The underlying 
cause of the damage was the breakdown of the tile bedding mortar over a significant 
time period. This damage has occurred due to the cyclical exposure of the elements 
and the resulting freeze/thaw effect. This is where moisture gets into a defect in the 
mortar and between the tile and bedding. This moisture then freezes, causing the 
defect to get bigger and the adhesion to the tile to breakdown. This repeatedly occurs 
over the years until the mortar reaches the end of its serviceable life. The damage is 
categorised as due to gradual deterioration.
Therefore, QIC says that the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of damage, instead, 
they say the dominant cause was wear and tear and gradual deterioration, and this has been 
highlighted by the weather at the time.
Mr Ms policy excludes:
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
-wear and tear;
-fall in value over time;
-gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
-exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions;
-normal settlement;
-warping or shrinkage;
-rusting or corrosion;
-wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause);
-fungus, mildew or mould;
-infestation (for example by vermin); and
-costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and contents normally.
And the storm policy cover specifically excludes:
anything that happens gradually.Ive considered the report completed by the surveyor, and the additional comments from QIC 
outlined above, alongside the photos taken of Mr Ms roof. Having done so, Im persuaded 
by the conclusions reached by QIC. Some of the damage to the roof, such as broken tiles, 
looks to be historic, rather than due to the storm shortly before inspection. And looking at the 
images, Im also persuaded by QICs conclusions surrounding the mortar deterioration. So 
on this basis, I dont think QIC has acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the above 
exclusion.
Mr M has also provided a statement from his own roofer who said:
Before we started work there were some ridge tiles missing.
The majority of the ridge tiles were fixed solid.
The missing ridge tiles were due to storm damage.
However, having considered Mr Ms roofers comments, alongside the photos taken by QIC 
and the conclusions they reached (as outlined above), on balance, I find QICs conclusions 
more persuasive as I think the photos support their position. 
With this in mind, I dont think QIC has acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the 
policy exclusions.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman