DRN-1132766
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B was sold a PPI policy in May 2002 in connection with a loan during a meeting. The 
PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to the remaining term of the loan if Mrs B 
was off work sick and for up to 12 months if Mrs B lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs B was eligible under the policy. Based on her age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mrs B was eligible for 
the policy. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Mrs Bs account. Mrs B says that she wasnt aware she had 
been sold PPI. She says had she been given a choice she would not have taken PPI as she 
had sufficient existing means of repayment. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what 
Mrs B and Lloyds have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help 
me decide what is more likely to have happened. 
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement. This shows that Mrs B would have 
been presented with two equally clear options as to whether or not to take PPI. I can see 
that the option to take PPI was selected and that Mrs B signed this document.
So while I appreciate what Mrs B has told us, I think its more likely that Lloyds did make it 
clear to Mrs B that PPI was optional and that Mrs B chose to take PPI out knowing she didnt 
have to. 
Lloyds say they advised Mrs B to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mrs B. I cant say that Lloyds checked all the things they should have but I do think the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs B. I say this because:
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs employee sick pay (and savings) 
and it would have done so potentially for a much longer period time than Mrs Bs sick 
pay. It would also have paid out if Mrs B lost her job in addition to any redundancy 
pay she may have been entitled to. 
- Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
examples, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs B.
- I note that if Mrs B cancelled the policy early, she would not have received a pro-rata 
refund. Mrs B says this made the policy unsuitable for her as she had taken out 
several loans with Lloyds and she repaid this loan early. Ive thought carefully about 
this but this loan was the first in the chain of loans that Mrs B had taken out and it 
was over a relatively short period of time (24 months). Theres nothing to indicate that  
Mrs B would have thought she would cancel this particular loan early when she took 
it out. So I dont think, the lack of a pro-rata refund meant that this particular PPI 
policy was unsuitable for Mrs B at this time.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs B clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that she could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs B this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman