DRN-2232737
The complaint
Mr M says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr M took out a 24-month loan for £2000 on 12 January 2015. The monthly repayment was
£159.62 and the total repayable was £3830.88. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She said under the relevant rules a lender must
not accept an application for credit if it knows or suspects the applicant has not been truthful 
in completing the application. And that was the case here so 118 118 Money didnt make a 
fair lending decision.
118 118 Money disagreed. It said its affordability calculations were completed against two 
sets of data  what Mr M declared and also the figures from its credit checks and its 
estimates of his living expenses. It said its aware that not all applicants know their exact 
outgoings, so it allows a small error of judgement and here used the credit check to provide 
accurate figures on Mr Ms behalf. It was these checks combined that showed the loan was 
affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when 118 118 Money lent to Mr M.
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 118 118
Money to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, 118 118 Money was required to carry out
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So 118 118 Money had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments 
on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Mr M, and have considered the following questions:
did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did 118 118 Money make a fair lending decision?
did 118 118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
118 118 Money asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It
asked about his employment and residential status. It checked his credit file to understand
his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. 
From these checks combined 118 118 Money concluded the loan was affordable for Mr M.
Im not wholly persuaded that these checks were proportionate. The lender had to be sure 
Mr M could afford to sustainably repay the loan over two years so I dont think it should have 
relied solely on percentage assumptions, or Mr Ms declarations, to understand his living 
costs. I also cant see 118 118 Money verified his income  it states it believes Mr M earns 
the amount he disclosed but Im unsure how it checked this. 
However I wont comment further on this as, like our investigator, I dont think 118 118 
Money reacted appropriately to the information it did gather to make a fair lending decision. 
The lender knew from the credit report it obtained that Mr M had credit commitments in 
excess of those he had declared in his monthly expenses. And CONC 5.3.7 clearly sets out:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
I note 118 118 Money argues that as it had completed a credit check it was able to
verify the loan was affordable, but this doesnt change my conclusion. The above rule makes
very clear what a lender should do if it discovers false or incomplete information has been
submitted as part of a credit application. 118 118 Money says its aware there can be a small 
error of judgement in an applicants submission. But it has also told us that here it changed 
the £480 per month of credit commitments that Mr M had declared to £604.75 based on its credit check. I dont think the difference in these figures can be described as small - or be 
classified as what might be seen as an acceptable discrepancy.   
In addition to having evidence that Mr M had not been truthful in his application, I also think
118 118 Money should have been concerned that as it was increasing Mr Ms monthly credit
commitments to just over half of his declared net income there was a risk he would be
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
And as it knows, it needed to do more than check Mr M could afford his loan on a pounds 
and pence basis. It knew Mr M had £13,543 of unsecured debt across 10 accounts and his 
balance to limit ratio was at 97% across two credit cards and two overdrafts. So there were 
some indicators his finances were under pressure. His total monthly credit commitments 
including this loan would be around £760  so over 40% of his gross income. At this level, I 
think it should have suggested to 118118 Money there was a risk the repayments would not 
be sustainably affordable for Mr M  as went on to be the case.  
It follows I think Mr M has lost out because of 118 118 Moneys lending decision. 
I have also looked at whether 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way. I havent found that it did. It agreed to a reduced payment plan when Mr M was 
struggling, and then responded appropriately whilst he was setting up his debt management 
plan. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
It seems 118 118 Money sold the outstanding debt. If this is the case it should buy it back if it 
is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back,
then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr M made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then 118 118 Money should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account means that a capital balance remains outstanding 
then 118 118 Money should attempt to agree an affordable payment plan with Mr M  
but it should not attempt to recover any balance it has already written-off (as it seems 
it has done here).
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 118 Money
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) must
put things right as set out above.    Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman