DRN-3733136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their home insurance 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs M have been represented for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive referred 
to the representatives actions as being those of Mr and Mrs M. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs M claimed on their Aviva home insurance policy for damage 
to a sewage treatment plant (STP). Aviva declined the claim. It said there hadnt been an 
insured event.  Mr and Mrs M complained. They felt the damage was covered by two insured 
events - flood (by change in the water table) and/or escape of water. 
In response Aviva said the policy had only recently been incepted  and there was no 
evidence of an insurable event, like escape of water or flood, since it had been active. It 
implied that photographic evidence indicated the damage having occurred before it was Mr 
and Mrs Ms insurer. So it continued to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied so came to this service. They say theres no evidence the 
STP was damaged before the policy start date. They want Aviva to cover their claim and 
compensate them for delay and unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  
In September 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He felt it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim on the basis that damage occurred before the 
policy start date. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs M and Aviva have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Avivas confused matters a little by referring to a gradually occurring damage exclusion. But 
essentially it feels the damage to the STP happened before it was Mr and Mrs Ms insurer. 
So, regardless of the cause, it wouldnt be covered by their policy.  
The insurer says theres no evidence of escape of water or flood since the policy incepted. It 
accepts the STP may have been undermined by water leakage from a manhole cover 
upstream. But it believes any damage occurred pre-inception of the policy. It referred to the 
condition of the ground and vegetation around the STP, as shown in photos, to support its 
position. Avivas drainage expert report states On viewing the photos one would assume the 
movement to the STP was many months, if not years pre the policy inception date.  Mr M 
says theres no evidence the STP was damaged before the policy started. He says it was 
first noticed in May 2021 - a month or so after. 
Ive considered both points of view. Overall Im more persuaded, based on the photos and 
expert comments, that the damage most likely happened before the start date of the policy in 
March 2021. As Aviva wasnt the insurer at that point I cant say, in the circumstances, its 
decision to refuse the claim was unfair or unreasonable. So Im not going to require it to 
settle the claim or to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to settle Mr and Mrs M 
claim or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman