DRN-2669731
The complaint
Mr C complains that Forester Life Limited (Forester) sold him a product that was unsuitable 
and that he has suffered a financial loss.
What happened
An adviser from Foresters visited Mr C in August 2018 where Mr Cs financial and personal 
circumstances were discussed. Following this discussion, Forester recommended that Mr C 
invest £20,000 into a stocks and shares ISA which was managed by an independent asset 
manager. A recommendation summary was sent to Mr C on 21 August 2018 which 
summarised the discussion that took place and detailed the recommendation.
Mr C followed the recommendation and invested £20,000 into the stocks and shares ISA. 
The ISA was held until Mr C surrendered it in March 2020 with a value of £17,634.41.
Mr C complained to Foresters and said that they felt let down by the adviser at Foresters. Mr 
C said that he was told on numerous occasions that they investment was completely safe 
and that they could expect a profit of around 7% on their investment. Mr C says that he was 
misled on the risk element of the ISA.
Forester investigated the complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong and 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said that based on the evidence they had seen, the risks 
were explained to Mr C and the value of the fund may vary from day to day and were not 
guaranteed.
Unhappy with Foresters decision, Mr C referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator didnt think that Forester had acted 
fairly and upheld the complaint. The investigator thought that Mr Cs recollections were 
plausible and consistent and thought that the advice provided to Mr C was unsuitable.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Forester have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was not upholding the complaint. I asked both parties 
to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 6 March 2021.
Forester replied and did not offer any other information.
Mr C replied but did not disclose any new information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr C feels 
strongly about the complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Mr C met with an adviser from Forester with a view to obtaining advice on how to invest a 
sum of money that they had recently received. Mr C says that he was very clear to the 
adviser that his investment needed to be kept secure as he was intending to use this to pay 
off the remaining sum of his mortgage at the appropriate time.
In looking at the complaint, I have reviewed the available documentation that was written up 
following the discussion that Mr C had with the adviser. I have also reviewed the 
documentation that was sent to Mr C and the declarations that Mr C signed. I have also 
listened to the calls between Mr C and the investigator.
As I was not present at the meeting between Mr C and the adviser, I cant be sure what was 
said. In this provisional decision, I will be looking at what I think happened based on the 
balance of probability and the available documentation.
I have reviewed the Recommendation Summary which was produced on 21 August 2018. 
Forester have said that this report is designed to recap the questions I asked you during our 
meeting and the responses you gave.
The report is split into the following areas:
Your high level financial priorities 
Term
Risk
Savings and Investments
Plan Purchased 
Ill look at each of these areas in turn.
Your high level financial priorities 
Mr Cs said he was able to meet mortgage payments or any other commitments. It was also 
noted that Mr C did not have any regular loan payments or carried over any credit card 
balances.
Mr C did not wish to discuss his income protection requirements and said that he had 2-3 
times his monthly outgoings set aside to cope with any unexpected bills and could be 
accessed quickly in an emergency.
From what I have seen, Mr C did not have any issues with being able to afford the amount 
suggested for investing.
Term
Mr C was asked to choose from the options on the term of his investment. Mr C said that he 
wanted to think about medium to long term savings only. Forester said that stock market 
investments could offer better returns if he was prepared to leave his money invested for a 
longer period of 5 years or more.
From what I have seen, the term of medium to long term was classed as 5 years or more 
and in line with the term that Mr C wanted to invest his money.Risk
Mr C was asked to choose from three choices on which best suited his attitude to risk. Mr C 
selected low risk and stock market risk. Forester said that low risk was best suited to a cash 
product such as a cash ISA, but they didnt currently offer that product. They said that they 
have other products which offer potential for growth with some stock market risk.
The report goes on to say that Mr C was presented with further product options and he was 
interested in Saving and Investing. This was explained that as investing over the medium to 
long term with some risk in the hope of gaining better returns in the longer term.
From what I have seen, Mr C was presented with the risks that various products would carry.
Savings and Investments
This section of the report says that Forester could recommend a suitable product that 
provided potential growth over the medium to long term. The following risks are noted in this 
section:
It invests in the stock market and it is designed so that the risks are controlled. So although 
your investment is not guaranteed and you could get back less than you put in, this 
investment is generally lower risk than many other similar products.
Your investment would be used to buy a share in the underlying fund. The value of such 
shares can rise and fall considerably but because the money is spread across a number of 
different companies, it lowers this risk.
It is important to remember that you could get back less than what you paid in and that the 
value of your share in the fund will vary from day to day depending on the ups and downs on 
the stock market. What you get back when you cash in your investment will depend on the 
value of your share in the fund that day.
From what I have seen, the risks were disclosed to Mr C.
The recommendation summary that was sent to Mr C includes the type of detail that I would 
expect to see when this type of advice is given, and I think that it is written clearly and not 
misleading. 
The recommendation summary also includes a Declaration that includes the following 
statements:
I am aware that as with any stock market investment, there is no guarantee that I will get 
back the money I invest.
I am comfortable with the risks
I, Mr C confirm that the adviser has read this declaration in full and I wish for this application 
to proceed. 
Mr C was also sent a Key Features Document (KFD) which explained how the product 
worked that was recommended. The document records that the product had a risk rating of 
three out of seven. This was classed as a low to medium risk class. Mr C had chosen some 
stock market risk in the questions that Forester had asked during the meeting. I think that the product that was recommended did have some stock market risk, but this was 
in line with the answers that Mr C had provided to Forester. The KFD also listed the risks 
and gave an illustration of how the product may perform under different scenarios. The KFD 
has the following statement:
This product does not include protection from future market performance so you could lose 
some of your investment.
I have said that I wasnt at the meeting between Mr C and the adviser so I cant be sure what 
was said by each party within the meeting. Mr C says that he was told on numerous 
occasions by the adviser that his investment would be completely safe. 
I have listened to the calls between Mr C and the investigator. Mr C is adamant that he was 
told by the adviser that there was no risk and that he needed the money to pay off his 
mortgage at a later date. Mr C says that the adviser told him I wouldnt risk your mortgage.
Mr C also says that he had asked for a further visit from the adviser, but this didnt happen 
and the adviser didnt get in touch. Forester have said that the adviser has since left the 
company and they tried to contact him to get his recollection of the meeting and 
recommendation. Forester have said that the adviser did not get back to them. 
In his submission to the service, Mr C has indicated that as the adviser no longer works for 
Forester be believes he left under a cloud I have seen no indication of this and the fact that 
the adviser has left the business has not influenced my decision.
This complaint comes down to the documentation that I have seen from the file and what Mr 
C says he was told by the adviser. Based on the documentation that I have seen, Mr C was 
aware that the investment would carry some stock market risk and that the amount was not 
guaranteed.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr Cs recollection of what the adviser said to him but the 
documentation that he received and read makes it clear there was a risk to his capital and it 
wasnt guaranteed. On the balance of probability, I am more persuaded by the 
documentation that has been provided to me which records the sale of the product.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman