DRN-3839843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has refused to refund some of the 
premiums they paid for a private medical insurance policy.  
As Mr M has brought the complaint, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to him.
What happened
Mr M has held a Priority Health personal private medical insurance policy for a number of 
years. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
Policy benefits were therefore limited for a period while private facilities assisted the NHS, as 
non-urgent treatments werent being prioritised.  
At policy renewal in both December 2020 and in 2021, AXA gave Mr M a premium discount 
of two months free cover.
Unfortunately, during this time, Mr M suffered from a number of medical issues and became 
very unwell. He says he sought private medical treatment through the policy, but that due to 
the diversion of private medical facilities and consultants to support the NHS, private 
treatment was unavailable. Therefore, he felt the contract between him and AXA had been 
legally frustrated and that AXA should refund some of the premiums hed paid for cover.
AXA said it would be reviewing the total value of claims paid over 2020 and 2021, and if the 
value of these fell compared to 2019 because of the coronavirus crisis, it would pass any 
refunds due back to members in early 2022. It referred to this as its customer promise. 
In May 2022, following its customer promise review, AXA wrote to Mr M to tell him that he 
wasnt entitled to any refund of his premium, as the calculation fell below the minimum 
payment amount.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think AXA could 
be held responsible for the lack of private medical facilities or consultants during the 
pandemic. And he noted AXA had offered extra services during that time. He considered that 
the customer promise made it clear that premium discounts would be taken into account in 
AXAs rebate calculations. As Mr M had received discounted premiums during 2020 and 
2021, the investigator didnt think Mr M was entitled to another refund under the terms of the 
customer promise. And he also concluded that the premium discounts outweighed any 
rebate Mr M might have received from the price promise.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his responses. He didnt accept that AXA had offered a 
premium discount to compensate him for the lack of private medical care during Covid-19. 
This had been something AXA had offered him at renewal for several years, as an 
inducement to renew his policy. His primary reason for holding the policy was to access 
private medical care more quickly than the NHS could provide. But hed had to access 
treatment on the NHS. So he didnt think hed been appropriately compensated for AXAs 
breach of contract. He remained persuaded that the insurance contract had been frustrated. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think AXA has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
First, I must make it clear that I will only be considering Mr Ms complaint about AXAs 
decision not to refund his policy premium. I appreciate Mr M is also concerned that AXA 
hasnt appropriately considered cash benefit claims he made on the policy. But as our 
investigator explained, before we are able to look into a complaint, a financial business must 
be given the opportunity to consider a complaint and issue its final response. So I wont be 
deciding whether or not AXA handled Mr Ms cash benefit claims fairly as part of this 
decision.
Its clear that Mr M has suffered a period of worrying ill-health and I dont doubt what a 
distressing time this has been for him. I was sorry to read about the circumstances which led 
to this complaint and the ill-health Mr M has suffered.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with AXA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry rules.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say his plan is for one year, and that monthly 
premiums must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. I appreciate that Mr M 
says he was unable to access the private treatment he needed during the pandemic, but 
AXA is nevertheless entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr M 
making a claim during the relevant policy years.
Ive borne in mind that Mr M says that AXA waived two months of premiums each year at 
renewal for several years, as an inducement to retain his custom. But AXA is entitled to 
decide in what circumstances it is prepared to use its discretion to offer discounts. So I dont 
think its bound to take the same action each year. 
Its clear that Mr M wasnt able to access the treatment he needed during the pandemic 
privately. But I dont think its accurate to say his policy was unusable or that the principal 
purpose of the contract couldnt be fulfilled. Depending on the type of medical treatment or 
services Mr M required, AXA could have pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later 
date. Mr M had access to AXAs clinical support services without any excess or outpatient 
benefit limits, as well as to its remote GP services. Mr M would also have been eligible to 
claim enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised during that time. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. The Covid-19 pandemic 
was an unprecedented event, which affected private medical insurers across the industry.
AXA doesnt own or operate the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was entirely 
outside of AXAs control. The purpose of the contract was to cover the costs of authorised 
medical treatment  not to arrange or carry out private medical treatment. AXA could still 
have covered the costs of any eligible treatment it had authorised during this period, even if 
such treatment had to be delayed due to the lack of available medical professionals.
As Ive explained, AXA reviewed the value of claims made in 2020 and 2021. As the 
combined value of claims had fallen compared to 2019, the difference was passed back to 
its members by way of a refund, with its calculations verified by an independent auditor. In 
my view, this was a fair and reasonable response from AXA to recognise the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic on its members. Rebates werent guaranteed though  not all members 
were eligible for a payment.
In Mr Ms case, AXAs calculations showed that Mr M wasnt entitled to a rebate. Thats 
because of the discounted premiums hed paid in 2020 and 2021. AXA hasnt suggested that 
these discounts at renewal represented compensation for any future impact of the pandemic 
on Mr Ms ability to make as much use of the policy as hed hoped to. But it does say that the 
value of those discounts outweighs any rebate Mr M wouldve been entitled to under the 
customer promise. 
AXA explained how the customer promise would be calculated in its literature and it also 
explained what factors had been taken into account in the rebate calculation in its letter to Mr 
M of 31 May 2022. This said:
We compared the ratio of claims paid to premiums received on our health and dental plans 
in 2019 with those in 2020 and 2021. As the 2020-21 ratio was lower, refunds were due. The 
refunds to members and SME groups were then calculated in proportion to their premiums 
paid over 2020 and 2021. The amount takes into account any temporary premium 
reduction that may have been received between 1 April 2020 and 31 December 2021. 
(My emphasis added).
I think its sufficiently clear that AXA took into account any premium discounts its members 
had received between April 2020 and December 2021 (and Mr M had received two lots of 
two free months of cover during this period). So I think it was reasonable for AXA to take 
these discounts into account when it calculated whether Mr M was entitled to any rebate. 
AXA has now provided me with information to show me how it calculated whether Mr M was 
due any refund under the customer promise. Im afraid that I cant share this additional 
evidence with Mr M, as its commercially sensitive and therefore its confidential. But I hope it 
reassures Mr M to know that I have considered this information carefully and I can confirm 
that this evidence supports the information AXA gave Mr M in its letter of 31 May 2022. And 
this information also shows that Mr M simply wasnt entitled to any refund under the 
customer promise.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Ms position, I find that AXA has treated him fairly. And 
so it follows that I wont be telling it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman