DRN-3165839
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) didnt replace his 
windscreen as part of the repairs following an accident. 
What happened
Mr H took out car insurance with Advantage in November 2020, with his father as a named 
driver. In December 2020 Mr H was involved in an accident and this was reported to 
Advantage. The vehicle suffered damage to the front bumper and wheel on the passenger 
side. There was also a crack on the front windscreen on the drivers side. 
Advantage carried out the repairs on the passenger side and returned the car to Mr H. Mr H 
complained that the windscreen had not been repaired. He was initially told that the 
windscreen damage would be covered as part of the repairs. Advantage then reviewed this 
decision and concluded that the windscreen had not been damaged in the accident and so 
would not replace it.
Mr H complained to Advantage. Advantage said that the damage to the windscreen was on 
the drivers side and the accident damage was on the passenger side. It said the accident 
impact was not sufficient to have travelled to the other side of the car and caused damage. It 
also said that there was damage at the base of the windscreen which they believed was pre-
existing. They also pointed out that when reporting the accident, Mr Hs father hadnt said 
that the windscreen had been damaged until prompted. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. He was unhappy that he had initially been told 
that the windscreen would be repaired, and that Advantage then said that the damage was 
not accident related. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Advantage had 
acted unreasonably when refusing to cover the windscreen damage. However, he did think 
that Advantage could have handled things better and should have made it clear to Mr H that 
the windscreen damage was not part of the claim. He said that Advantage should pay £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage agreed to pay the compensation, but Mr H thought that the windscreen should be 
repaired and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage have accepted Mr Hs claim, and so I would expect them to repair any damage to 
Mr Hs car that was accident related. Any damage that was present before the accident 
wouldnt be covered under the claim. Mr H says the windscreen and windscreen washers 
were damaged during the accident, but Advantage think the damage was pre-existing.
Its not my role to determine exactly how damage to Mr Hs car was caused, but to decide on 
balance what I think is most likely to have happened and whether Advantage came to a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the evidence. 
Advantage say that Mr Hs father didnt mention the windscreen damage when he first 
reported the accident until he was prompted. They say this supports their view that the 
damage wasnt caused in the accident. Ive listened to the call and whilst I accept that the 
windscreen damage wasnt mentioned at first, I dont think this is significant. The purpose of 
the questions asked by Advantage appeared to be to ensure all damage was properly 
recorded and nothing was missed. Mr Hs father was not involved in the accident himself, so 
I dont think it unreasonable for him to need prompting about some of the damage caused.  
Advantage also rely on information provided by their garage and engineer, and the photos 
taken of Mr Hs car following the accident. Ive seen the photos and note that the accident 
impact to Mr Hs car was to the passenger side. I can see there was damage to the front 
bumper, wheel and wheel arch. I would agree with Advantage that the damage appears to 
be minor. I also note that the damage to the windscreen is to the far right on the drivers 
side. 
I havent seen a full engineers report from Advantage, but Ive seen the comments made by 
their engineer. He said that there was old damage to the windscreen which was evidenced 
by the ingress of dirt, and damage to the scuttle at the base of the windscreen. Although the 
photos are not particularly clear, there does appear to be some damage to the base of the 
windscreen on the drivers side. 
I cant say how the crack to the windscreen happened, but I accept that the impact damage 
to the passenger side of the car was minor. I think its therefore unlikely that the impact was 
sufficient to cause damage to the windscreen on the other side of the car without there being 
any pre-existing damage. I also havent seen anything to explain how the accident could 
have caused damage to the windscreen washers. On balance I dont think I can say the 
damage to the windscreen or washers resulted from the accident itself. I know this is not the 
result Mr H wanted but I dont think Advantage have done anything wrong in relation to the 
repairs. 
Mr H also complains about the way his claim was handled and that he was initially told by 
Advantage that the windscreen would be repaired. 
Ive listened to the telephone recordings of the calls regarding the damaged windscreen. 
Advantage said during two separate calls that they would repair the windscreen as part of 
the claim. It was only during a further call that Advantage said they needed to get 
confirmation from their engineer. I think that Advantage should have made it clear to Mr H at 
the outset that the windscreen damage might not be covered. This would have allowed Mr H 
to have gone ahead and arranged for the repair himself if he wished to do so. I think 
Advantage should also have kept Mr H better informed about what was happening with his 
claim. I note that Mr H had to make a number of phone calls to Advantage to chase things 
up. 
I therefore agree with our investigator and think that an award of £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman