DRN-1153323
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Countrywide Assured Plc mis-sold her an endowment policy for the 
repayment of her mortgage. She complains the policy wasnt suitable and it didnt stop when 
she repaid the mortgage it was connected to, in 2004.
What happened
Mrs K was recommended a part interest only part repayment mortgage in 2000. Alongside 
that she was sold an endowment policy for 50% of the total mortgage amount. Although Mrs 
K was recommended to have life cover within the endowment for the full mortgage she opted 
for 50%.
She called Countrywide for a surrender value in April 2004. In July 2004 she repaid her 
mortgage after selling her house and the direct debit the premiums were taken from was 
cancelled. Countrywide sent out arrears correspondence as new direct debit details werent 
provided.  In August 2004 Mrs K complained to Countrywide about the arrears 
correspondence, as she wanted to make a decision about what to do with the policy and 
whether to make it paid up. So Countrywide agreed to stop arrears correspondence. As it 
never received any further instructions for the policy, it was subsequently made paid up. The 
value at the time remained invested but management and life cover charges continued to 
come out of the policy value. As Mrs K didnt update her address details with Countrywide 
she didnt receive further correspondence about the policy. 
Mrs K complained about the sale of the policy in April 2019. Countrywide agreed the policy 
wasnt suitable and so carried out the industry standard redress calculation to establish if 
she had suffered a financial loss. It offered £1,912.49 in compensation. Mrs K didn't think 
that was right as fees had been deducted from the value of the policy since 2004, something 
she was unaware of. So she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator concluded the amount offered was fair. But Mrs K has asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she says:
The policy was mis-sold and so she should get the full capital value not the surrender 
value. She says she shouldn't have to pay surrender penalties. 
She was not aware when the house was sold that the endowment policy was 
separate, if it was portable or what fees were associated with keeping it open. 
The calculation would only make sense if it was to cover a shortfall on an endowment 
kept for the full term. But the property was sold after four years. As a result she has 
been paying an increased level of interest on her existing mortgage and wasn't able 
to reduce the capital borrowing with the value of the endowment. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Countrywide has agreed the endowment policy was mis-sold, so that isn't something I need 
to consider. What's left for me to decide is whether the redress offered is a fair resolution to 
this complaint. 
As the investigator explained there is an agreed standard approach to redress in cases 
where an endowment policy was recommended and it shouldn't have been. This approach 
was agreed by the regulator and is the expected redress in most cases of this 
nature. Countrywide has carried out a comparison of where Mrs K's mortgage position would 
have been had she been advised to have a repayment mortgage in 2000 rather than a part 
repayment, part interest only mortgage. It compares the mortgage repayment costs, taking 
into account the endowment premiums. It also compares the surrender value of the policy at 
the time it ceased to be used for mortgage purposes, to the amount a repayment mortgage 
would have reduced by over the same period. As Mrs K suffered a financial loss as a result 
of that advice, Countrywide has offered that loss, plus interest. I'm satisfied the redress 
offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs K has argued that she should be entitled to the full value of the policy not a surrender 
value as it was mis-sold. I'm not sure what is meant by this, as the value of policy is what it is 
- there isn't a different value. If Mrs K means she wants the full amount she paid in  
premiums over the four years then this has already been taken account of in the redress 
calculation. And in any event, I understand the current value of the policy is higher than the 
amount of premiums she paid - £3,985.32 (at the date of calculation) compared with 
£2,674.56. 
I'm also satisfied that Mrs K was aware the policy was separate from the actual mortgage.  I 
say this because her house was sold in July 2004, yet she was still receiving arrears 
correspondence for the policy. It was in August 2004 that she complained to Countrywide 
about the correspondence and asked for it to stop while she made a decision about the 
policy. And having seen an example of what an arrears letter would say, this does explain 
the protection provided would continue and the cost of it would be deducted from the policy 
value. Mrs K decided to keep the policy even though she could have surrendered it and used 
the value to reduce any future mortgage. I'm satisfied Mrs K was fully aware the policy was 
separate to the mortgage and that she decided to keep the policy when she didn't have to. I 
therefore find no basis on which to ask Countrywide to refund any of the costs deducted 
from the policy or for it to cover any additional interest she believes she has paid on her 
current mortgage. 
Overall, I'm satisfied the offer made by Countrywide is fair and reasonable and I won't be 
asking it to do anymore. If on reflection, Mrs K decides she'd now like to accept 
Countrywide's offer, she should get in touch with it directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint as a fair offer 
has already been made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman