DRN-4435060
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with the way she was treated in one of Nationwide Building Societys 
branches and the societys handling of her related complaint.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In early August 2023, Ms A visited the branch to get a printout of her account activity 
which is something she occasionally does in between receiving her monthly account 
statements. She complains about the way she was treated by the cashier both in their 
initial dealings and when she was subsequently reviewing her account statement. She 
feels the societys behaviour amounts to discrimination and says shes been treated 
badly by the society on previous occasions. Shes also unhappy with the related 
complaint investigation as she doesnt feel her concerns were given due consideration 
and she feels the complaint-handler exhibited unfair bias towards the society.
Nationwide looked into Ms A complaint but said it had no concerns with the staff at the 
branch Ms A had visited. Amongst other things, it asked Ms A to be mindful of the way 
she acted in branch and warned that it may have to take action if any similar concerns 
about Ms As behaviour were reported. Ms A was unhappy with the societys response 
so asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms As complaint should be upheld. Ms A 
disagreed, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide and Ms A will note that Ive summarised the background to this complaint in less 
detail than they have and Ive done so using my own words. Im going to focus on what I 
think are the key issues in this complaint rather than responding to every point thats been 
made, but no discourtesy is meant by this. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
I note Ms A feels Nationwide has discriminated against her in relation to the problems shes 
complained about. With this in mind, I should explain that this Service is unable to make 
findings about whether a bank has acted unlawfully or not. Only the courts have the power to 
make a decision of that nature. But Im required to take a number of things into account  
including relevant law such as the Equality Act 2010, and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice  when deciding whether Nationwide has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner. 
Ive thought very carefully about what both sides have said and this hasnt been an easy 
decision to make because their recollections of what happened on the day in question differ 
by some degree. Ms A thinks the branch staff were in the wrong but Nationwide thinks Ms A 
behaved inappropriately. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any CCTV evidence of the 
events in question but, even when available, this type of evidence is rarely conclusive.
Having looked at all the evidence  which includes listening to recordings of the calls Ms A 
has had with this service  Im not persuaded that Ms As version of events is more likely 
than Nationwides. And, in such circumstances, I cant fairly instruct the society to award her 
compensation or do anything differently.
I appreciate Ms A will likely be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it helps her to know 
that someone impartial and independent has looked into her concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman