DRN-3933442
The complaint
Mr H1 complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited recorded an incident on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and this led to an increase in his premium for his 
motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for this. Mr H1 is represented in this matter 
by his son, Mr H2, a named driver on the policy. 
What happened
Mr H1s garage told him that his cars air conditioning unit had been damaged by debris on 
the road and he should make a claim on his insurance to cover the repair costs. Mr H2 
called Admiral to discuss this but they decided not to claim. They later found that Admiral 
had recorded the incident on CUE and a new insurer said this had led to an increase in 
premium of £120. They wanted compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr H1 
was obliged by the policys terms and conditions to report all incidents to Admiral. She 
thought Admiral had correctly recorded the incident on CUE as No Claim with £0 costs. 
She thought Mr H1 would have had to report the incident to his new insurer in any case. And 
she thought Admiral wasnt responsible for how the new insurer priced Mr H1s policy. 
Mr H2 replied that the policy didnt specify what constituted an incident that should be 
reported. He thought Mr H1 was being unfairly penalised for an incident that wasnt due to 
bad driving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H2 has raised concerns about how the insurance industry acts as a whole. But its not my 
role to comment on this as that it something for the regulator. Our role in complaints like this 
is to make sure that a customer has been treated fairly and in line with how other customers 
have been treated.
I can understand that Mr H1 feels frustrated that the incident was recorded even though no 
claim was made and even though it wasnt linked to his driving. But I can see from the policy 
documents that Mr H1 is required by the terms and conditions to notify Admiral of any 
incident within 48 hours. This is whether the incident was a fault, or not. 
Mr H2 explained that he asked Admiral about how the potential claim would be recorded and 
it was explained that it would be a fault as Admiral couldnt recover its losses. And so he 
decided not to claim. 
We often find that that a claim or notification itself  regardless of whos at fault  will affect 
the premium. While some insurers will only rate on No Claims Discount (NCD) disallowed or 
fault claims, others will consider any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk 
factor. 
This is because insurers say that drivers who have been involved in accidents, regardless of 
fault, are more likely to be involved in future claims. And I can see that Admiral explained 
this to Mr H1 when it responded to his complaint. 
Being involved in an incident could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or 
junctions or driving at particular times. Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their 
policies or what factors they should consider when calculating a risk. However we need to 
make sure the insurer is applying a fair and consistent approach to all consumers. 
In keeping with industry practice, Admiral has a duty to record all incidents that may affect 
the rating of risk. And I think Admiral correctly recorded the incident on CUE as this was a 
factual record of the event. So I cant say it did anything wrong in this. 
Mr H2 said that incident wasnt defined in the policy. But I think this is commonly 
understood to mean an event that could lead to a claim. I wouldnt expect Admiral to define 
every word in its policy documents.  
Admiral has shown us that it recorded the incident as No Claim, £0 cost and No Claims 
Bonus (NCB) allowed. Im satisfied that this is an accurate record of Mr H1s driving history. 
And Im satisfied that Admiral didnt treat Mr H1 any differently to other consumers in 
recording the incident on CUE.  
Mr H2 was concerned that this led another insurer to increase Mr Hs premium. But I cant 
hold Admiral responsible for how another business prices its policies. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman