DRN-1717184
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the poor  service she received from Covea Insurance plc (trading as 
Provident Insurance) when she claimed on her car insurance policy after an accident. 
 
What happened
The accident happened on 9 September 2019 when Mrs Ps car skidded on oil and water on 
the road. Mrs Ps husband, Mr P, dealt with Covea on her behalf. He says he was promised 
calls back on numerous occasions that werent made. And he thought Mrs P should have 
had a courtesy car. Mr P raised a complaint with Covea on 15 September 2019. On 
20 September 2019,  Mr P was advised that the car was to be written-off as beyond 
economical repair. He was offered £25 for delay, which he declined.
There was later a delay of seven weeks when Covea found a record of a non-fault incident 
that had to be reviewed by its technical team, so the claim was put on hold. Mr P made a 
further complaint. He was advised on 15 November 2019 that there would have been a £25  
increase in premium for the undisclosed claim, but that Covea was going to waive it. He was 
offered £740 for the car, minus the excess of £150. As he wasnt happy with that sum, 
Covea said it would be reviewed. But the same sum was later offered to him again.
On 3 December 2019 Covea agreed to look at an improved settlement figure. It 
acknowledged the delay in its claims department moving matters on and offered a courtesy 
car to Mrs P for 10 days as a goodwill gesture. On 16 December 2019, after a call between 
its advisor and Mr P, Covea issued its response to Mr Ps second complaint. It confirmed 
that he would now be paid £1,205 for the car (minus the policy excess). Covea accepted that 
Mr P had faced unnecessary delays (especially when the technical team was involved). It 
said a courtesy car was provided a result of that and confirmed that £100 compensation 
would be paid as well. In a previous response (to Mr Ps earlier complaint) Covea had 
apologised for not updating him and said Mrs P wasnt entitled to a courtesy car.   
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ps complaint. She thought the cars valuation was 
reasonable and in line with those set out in the national trade guides. She said the policy 
didnt cover a replacement car for Mrs P, as her own car wasnt being repaired. But she 
didnt think Covea had compensated Mrs P properly for distress and inconvenience. In her 
view, the extent of the avoidable delays and Coveas repeated failures to return calls meant 
that it should pay Mrs P a further £150. Covea didnt think that was reasonable. It said the 
technical team sent a text to Mr P on 17 October 2019 but he didnt respond. It asked for a 
review of the complaint by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr P was satisfied with the revised settlement for the car. And I think he 
later accepted that the policy didnt provide for a courtesy car at the start of the claim unless 
Mrs Ps car was going to be repaired. But Mrs P was without the car  - and without a 
payment for it - from September 2019 until December 2019. I think it was reasonable for 
Covea to offer a replacement car to her for 10 days at that point, as a gesture of goodwill. 
But Mrs P shouldnt have been without a car or a payment for so long.
Mr P kept detailed records of events from September 2019 onwards. I think its clear that he 
had to chase Covea often from the start. But he still wasnt kept updated and many promised 
calls werent returned. In its response to his first complaint, Covea apologised, but I can see 
why Mr P didnt think the offer of £25 compensation at that point was enough. And even after 
dealing with that complaint, Covea didnt ensure Mr P was given much better service. 
Although there was then some contact from it at times, there were still periods with no 
contact at all. I think it must have been very frustrating for Mr P to cope with the continuing 
lack of updates which left him and Mrs P in the dark.  
Mr P accepts that he didnt respond to Coveas text. But Covea didnt follow up on it. I think 
the onus was on Covea to do that, as it was part way through dealing with the claim and 
knew that a technical query had caused the process to stall. I think Mr P should have been 
told what was going on  and as Covea has accepted, had the technical team been more 
pro-active, the settlement would have progressed more quickly. 
I think Covea underestimated the impact of the lack of contact and unnecessary delay. Mr P 
was inconvenienced by having to chase Covea and frustrated by its lack of response and 
failed promises. Meanwhile Mrs P was without a car for longer than would have been 
necessarily had the claim been handled better. Although Covea attempted to put matters 
right, taking everything into account, I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay Mrs P 
a further £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to pay her 
a further £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 
5 December 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman