DRN-3099140
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S have complained that HSBC Bank Plc continued charging them excessive 
amounts for their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that were being 
applied to their account. They said the charges were making their overdraft more difficult to 
repay and explained that their financial situation would soon be worsening, meaning the 
charges would make things even more difficult for them. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Mr and Mrs S were dissatisfied, they referred the complaint to our service.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that 
HSBC ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs S were experiencing financial difficulty by 
1 June 2014 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this 
point onwards. HSBC disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 1 June 2014. 
By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs S were in no position to sustainably 
repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr and Mrs S were hardcore borrowing. In other, words they hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time  at least six months. HSBCs 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. HSBC says that Mr and Mrs S didnt trigger any internal 
indicators of financial difficulty and didnt notify HSBC of any difficulties they were having. 
But the Lending Code, which was in place at the time and which HSBC subscribed to,
clearly stated that hardcore borrowing was a potential indicator of difficulty. 
So I disagree with HSBCs comments, sustained and prolonged overdraft usage is an 
indication of a potential problem. And so I think that Mr and Mrs Ss overdraft usage should 
have prompted HSBC to have realised that they werent using their overdraft as intended 
and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr 
and Mrs Ss overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
HSBC didnt treat Mr and Mrs S fairly and they lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after 1 June 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr and Mrs S to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and 
Mrs Ss credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in June 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs S along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then HSBC should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ss 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. HSBC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman