DRN-3028357
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc has declined to pay a final period of a 
disability claim he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
Mr H has been represented by his wife in making this complaint. However, for the purposes 
of this decision I will just be referring to Mr H.
What happened
Mr H made a claim for disability that was accepted by Pinnacle with a start date of 22 
January 2020. He returned to work on 9 September 2020 and understood that his claim 
would be paid up to that point, having previously clarified the terms of the policy over the 
phone. However, Pinnacle then sent him a closure letter stating that no further benefit was 
payable as Mr H had returned to work in advance of 17 September 2020 which was the date 
that the next payment would have been due.
Mr H complained to Pinnacle that they had been informed by an adviser that the policy 
would pay out pro-rata for each day of sickness. Pinnacle accepted that Mr H had been 
given incorrect information and so upheld his complaint, offering £150 compensation.
Our adjudicator concluded that Pinnacle had acted fairly in paying the claim up to the point 
that it did. He also thought that Pinnacles offer of £150 was appropriate redress for the error 
that had occurred.
Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators view and the complaint has therefore been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms state:
If you become disabled during the period of insurance, you will be entitled to the monthly 
benefit for each period of 30 consecutive days you are off work due to the disability.
On 6 March 2020 Pinnacle wrote to Mr H to advise that it had accepted the claim. Within the 
letter it stated: Your policy states that you should not be working for a period of 30 days from 
the date your claim started in order to receive one full months payment. Thereafter claim 
payments are calculated every 30 days.
On 14 August 2020 Mr Hs wife rang Pinnacle to seek clarification about how the policy 
worked in terms of the periods it would pay out for. The adviser said that if Mr H was off for 
part of a month then he would be paid for part of a month. As stated above, Pinnacle has 
accepted that this was incorrect advice and have apologised for it.
Mr H says that, based on the advice received, he decided to go back to work on 9 
September 2020, whereas he would have waited until 17 September 2020 if he had been 
given the correct information.
The policy terms are clear that it pays benefit in cycles of 30 full days. The question is 
whether the misinformation given to Mrs H on 14 August 2020 means that Pinnacle should 
be bound by what it said at that time and therefore pay the remainder of the claim on a per 
day basis. And Im not persuaded that it does.
The policy also states that:
To receive the monthly benefit you must:
be prevented from working only as a result of your disability
Mr H has explained the complex nature of his disability and that the condition had improved 
by August 2020 but that he was still suffering some pain. As such, in reviewing his condition, 
his GP was open to providing further sick notes to aid his recuperation and would in part be 
guided by how Mr H was feeling  so there would have been no problem in obtaining sick 
notes up to the 17 September 2020 that would have ensured that the policy paid out another 
full 30 days benefit.
As well as his health, Mr H also had other things to consider at that point. He had been 
offered a new job and had been in discussion with the employer about a start date, which he 
says was negotiable but not indefinite. He was also thinking about his financial situation. 
Having weighed all of those things up, he decided to start work on 9 September 2020, 
although he says he was still in some pain at the time.
I understand Mr Hs thought process about his decision to go back to work on a certain date 
and how the incorrect information hed received from Pinnacle played into that thinking. Mr H 
made what he thought was the best overall decision to suit his circumstances. 
However, as mentioned above, a claim will only be paid out if you are prevented from 
working only as a result of your disability.
If Mr H had been given the correct information over the phone, he would have chosen to stay 
off work until the full final 30 day payment cycle had been completed on 17 September 2020. 
But that decision would not have been based solely on whether he was well enough or not. I 
appreciate that Mr H may have been trying to keep his new employer happy and that he was 
not entirely pain free when he did start work. I also appreciate that some extra recuperation 
time may have been of benefit to him. However, in going back to work on 9 September 2020, 
Mr H has basically demonstrated that his disability was not preventing him from working from 
that date onwards. Whilst he had wider concerns beyond his health, those were immaterial 
in terms of how the policy operates. His decision should have been based purely on when he 
was fit enough to return to work. 
Pinnacle has correctly applied the policy terms to pay the claim up to the final 30 day cycle in 
August 2020. Having considered the misinformation given to Mrs H on 14 August 2020, Im 
not persuaded that it follows that Pinnacle should pay the remaining part of the claim. 
Overall I consider that the £150 compensation payment offer by Pinnacle is a reasonable 
and proportionate response to the complaint. My understanding is that Pinnacle has already 
paid this amount to Mr H.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and 
make no award against Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman