DRN-1447739
 
The complaint
Mr B and Ms K complain that their building insurer, QIC Europe Limited (QIC), declined to 
pay for the repair of damage its contractor caused when dealing with their claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms K found a leak under her kitchen sink. She made a claim to QIC and it 
appointed a specialist drying company, who attended her home. During the course of the 
inspection, the assessor had to move the dishwasher and Mr B and Ms K said this caused 
damage to the dishwasher door and the cabinet door. Ms K says that when the assessor 
tried to remove flooring, he placed his hand underneath the dishwasher, the dishwasher fell. 
As a result, the door bent and could no longer be closed. She said the cabinet door also 
became damaged.   
Mr B and Ms K complained to QIC about the damage and asked it to replace the dishwasher 
and repair or replace the cabinet door. QIC said that the damage couldnt have been done 
by their assessor. QIC said there had been evidence of wear and tear, but no evidence that 
its drying company caused damage to the dishwasher or cabinet door.   
Mr B and Ms K werent satisfied with QICs response and brought their complaint here.   
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He found that QIC didnt act fairly. He thought that the 
assessor was likely to have caused the damage to the dishwasher. But he didnt think that 
the cabinet door was damaged during the incident as it looked like water damage had been 
the cause of that. He said QIC should pay Mr B and Ms K £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and said that QIC should either replace the dishwasher or provide a 
cash alternative.  
QIC didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I will be upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
In considering the complaint, I have assessed the evidence available to QIC to see whether 
it made a fair decision in denying responsibility for the damage to the door and the 
dishwasher.
Dishwasher door I have been provided with photographic evidence from both parties. QICs position is that its 
assessor didnt touch the dishwasher at all when he carried out his inspection of the flooring. 
Mr B and Ms K, who were present at the time, dispute this. They state that prior to the 
assessors arrival and consequent inspection, the dishwasher was in good working order. In 
fact, the appliance had been on at the time the assessor was removing the flooring. They 
have produced photographs showing this. They stated that after the assessor had placed his 
hand underneath the dishwasher to remove the flooring, it fell and caused the door to hit the 
floor and snap the hinges, resulting in the door being unable to close. 
It is clear from the photos supplied by Mr B and Ms K that the assessor did have to get to the 
flooring, underneath the dishwasher. I am persuaded that at this point he wouldve had to 
have touched the dishwasher. So Mr B and Ms Ks account as to how the door became 
damaged is a reasonable one. The assessor was close to the dishwasher. Prior to him 
touching it, it had been working but afterwards it was damaged.  
QIC produced photos that showed dents in the door which it said meant that the dishwasher 
suffered from wear and tear. And because of this its assessor wasnt responsible for the 
damage. But QIC have provided no evidence that could suggest that the dishwasher was not 
functioning prior to its assessor attending nor had they produced any evidence to show that 
these dents prevented the door from closing.  Consequently, I think it is more likely than not 
that the assessors actions, caused damage to the dishwasher door and I think that QIC 
should put matters right. 
Dishwasher cabinet door.  
I have seen photos that show damage to the cabinet door. The damage seems to have been 
caused by water as the MDF core can be seen to have expanded. There also appears to be 
delamination on the door which would indicate wear and tear. I cant see how this damage 
can be attributed to the assessor and so I cant reasonably ask QIC to do anymore here.   
Have QIC acted fairly?
From the papers, QIC offered a cash settlement in respect of the dishwasher. Also, it 
appears to have looked to see if the same model could still be bought. Yet I can find no 
information why this offer was withdrawn or not pursued.
Our investigator gave QIC another opportunity to make further representations once he had 
given the parties his view. QIC didnt expand their objections nor did they provide any further 
evidence as to why they believed their arguments were more persuasive than the 
investigators.
I am not satisfied that QIC acted fairly by declining the claim relating to the broken 
dishwasher. I find that the assessor had during the course of his inspection, moved the 
dishwasher which fell and caused damage. Consequently, QIC ought to either pay for a new 
dishwasher or replace the dishwasher with the same model, if available. It should pay Mr B 
and Ms K £100 compensation for the inconvenience they have been caused.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint:
QIC  Europe Limited should either replace the dishwasher or offer a cash alternative
QIC Europe Limited to pay £100 compensation to Mr B and Ms K. 
My final decision Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman