DRN-3598373
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt open a new business account for 
them and wouldnt help them complete the tax related documentation it requested.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S operate a business partnership. They have banked with HSBC for a number 
of years and needed a further business account to deposit money for a new project. They 
first applied for the account in April 2021 and were unhappy that by the time the complaint 
had been referred to this service in November 2021 an account had still not been opened.
HSBC said that it had provided a hamper to Mr S and Mrs S in April 2021 when it hadnt 
called them back as it had said it would. And that it now offered a further £75. It said that it 
had sent Mr S and Mrs S letters about its requirements and that it couldnt open an account 
until these had been addressed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. She said that the need for 
information related to the partnerships tax position and for HSBC to deal with the Foreign 
Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA) and common reporting standards agreed with the 
United States of America. Mr S and Mrs S had ticked a box stating that were a foreign 
financial institution initially which wouldnt be a type of business HSBC would offer an 
account to. It couldnt accept amended forms but needed the forms completed again. As 
recently as March 2022 it had written to Mr S and Mrs S setting out specifically what was still 
outstanding in the forms. Branches hadnt been dealing with business customers during the 
period and there was no specific team in HSBC who could help with filling the forms in. She 
obtained further details of what was needed from HSBC in May 2022 and forwarded this on 
to Mr S and Mrs S. 
She said that we arent the regulator and arent in a position to tell HSBC how to operate.   
Mr S and Mrs S would need to deal directly with HSBC about the account opening 
requirements. She noted that Mr S had investigated opening an account elsewhere and this 
might be a viable alternative.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said that the compensation wasnt sufficient and wouldnt 
even cover the costs of going to a number of branches. He indicated that £500 would be 
appropriate. He said he didnt know why hed involved this service. At the time of writing he 
had still not received an email about the application, despite his accountants filling in the 
forms this time. He said that he would otherwise involve the press. He raised a number of 
questions about why he had to deal with four different branches, the lack of co-ordination at 
HSBC and why theres no support provided, and he was unhappy that he seems to be being 
blamed for what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why as long-standing customers of HSBC Mr S and Mrs S thought it would 
be a simple matter to open a further business account. And Mr S refers to his past business 
activities and record of experience. I note he explains the new account was needed to 
separate costs on a project.
Ive seen that he and Mrs S agreed to refer their complaint to this service. We provide 
informal dispute resolution and we arent the regulator. So as our investigator has said there 
are a number of areas we wont be in a position to address such as the role of branches and 
HSBCs process. We can look at whether HSBC made an error or acted unreasonably.
HSBC has provided copies of the forms it now needs to ensure that it complies with relevant 
legislation and regulations. I dont think its unreasonable for it to expect these to be 
completed. I can understand what Mr S says about the complexity of these forms. And I can 
also see why HSBC wouldnt be able to provide specific guidance on how to complete the 
forms and comment on the tax status of the partnership. While I note that Mr S and Mrs S 
state they have no connection with the United States of America for tax purposes and the 
forms have no relevance, it would be up to them to document that. And if there were issues 
with the forms as here they couldnt be altered, and they needed to be completed again 
which I know theyve done several times.
I note from a letter from HSBC to them of 15 March 2022 that there were some quite specific 
comments about issues with the latest forms by then submitted including some parts having 
been left blank. And I understand that although Mr S wanted a branch to help him, hes now 
approached his accountants which is something HSBC had suggested. I dont have any 
more information now about the status of the forms and the application.
I know Mr S and Mrs S will be unhappy when I say that I dont have a basis to find that 
HSBC has made a mistake for the reasons Ive given. Ive seen copies of the letters it has 
sent to Mr S and Mrs S about the requirements. As Ive indicated I cant say that a particular 
branch or staff member ought to have provided any greater assistance. And if there was an 
important reason for an account I think it reasonable for Mr S and Mrs S to take action to 
mitigate any loss. This might have included approaching a different financial business. I dont 
doubt the frustration for Mr S and Mrs S at the time thats passed since their application. But 
I also cant say HSBC has acted unreasonably in requiring this information and so ask it to 
pay further compensation. It recognises an element of service issues and has offered to pay 
£75. I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
HSBC has offered to pay Mr S and Mrs S £75 which I think is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay Mr S and Mrs S £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman