DRN-1275249
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs C took out the PPI policy with a further advance in 1989 which started in 1990. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when neither party has been able to provide 
much from the time of the sale. And its maybe not surprising thats the case as these events 
happened over 30 years ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I need to 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs C say they werent aware they had the PPI. Earlier in the complaint they told us 
they were aware they had it and only took it because they were told they had to take it to get 
the mortgage. 
But I see they had to complete a separate application for the PPI and they have both signed 
that form signifying their agreement with its contents. So, overall I think Mr and Mrs C knew 
they were taking out PPI. That the form for the PPI was separate to the application form for 
the credit suggests it was separate to that application, and not dependent upon it. So, it 
seems most likely from what Ive seen that Mr and Mrs C would have understood they had a 
choice about taking PPI at the time, even if they cant remember that now, many years later. 
However, even if I hadnt the PPI application to consider, given the length of time since the 
sale, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points. Halifax said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for them. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time and I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. I say this because:
I think Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy, and they wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover.
I think Mr and Mrs C had a need for the cover this policy could have provided. I say 
this because Mr and Mrs C told us they whilst they had good sick pay initially, they 
had no other means to rely on beyond that, or if they lost a job. This policy could 
have paid the mortgage amount for up to24 months. So, having thought carefully 
about this, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured 
on their home, I think they could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other policies that offered 
similar benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable.
 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs C, Halifax also had to give them 
clear enough information about the policy, so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, 
for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, Im not persuaded 
more information would have made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. And I make no 
award against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman