DRN-2675638
The complaint
Mr P complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) did not accept his instruction 
to convert two fund holdings into another share class as he was classed as a direct client.
What happened
Mr P purchased two fund holdings directly with Invesco and Invesco held these on his 
behalf. Mr P did not use a fund platform or any other nominee for the administration of these 
shares. 
On 1 November 2019, Mr P wrote to Invesco requesting that his holding of Invesco Japan 
Fund be converted into the Invesco Japan Fund Z class and his holding of Invesco Global 
Smaller Companies Fund be converted into the Z share class of the same fund.
Invesco replied on 4 November 2019 and said that they were unable to carry out his 
instructions as the Z share class was only available to fund platforms where there was a 
written agreement in place. Invesco also said that a no trail share class was available to 
clients who invested through a financial adviser.
Mr P replied on 9 November 2019 with a complaint saying that this was not fair to him as the 
Z share class had a reduced annual management charge and he was being unfairly treated 
as he had bought the funds directly with Invesco. Mr P said that this was contrary to the 
FCAs Principles for Business and, Principle 6  The Fair Treatment of Customers.
Invesco replied to Mr P on 18 November 2019 and said that the Retail Distribution Review 
(RDR) which was introduced in 2012 was designed to improve transparency around charges 
and led to the introduction of clean share classes. They said that clean shares classes were 
only available to clients who had invested via a fund platform or a financial adviser. For 
clients who had invested directly, they continued to offer the retail share class.
Invesco said that a client with a financial adviser would receive a small discount as the 
adviser would also charge them for their service. They said that in order to ensure that the 
client wasnt charged double, they received a discount, and this was to ensure that all clients 
were treated fairly.
Mr P did not accept this response and again invited Invesco to convert his shares into the Z 
share class.
Invesco replied to Mr Ps complaint on 3 January 2020 and confirmed that only clients who 
invested with a fund platform could convert into the Z share class. Invesco offered to convert 
Mr Ps funds into their No Trail share class at no cost to Mr P  this share class been 
previously only on offer to clients who had a financial adviser and Mr P agreed to this.
Mt P wasnt happy with the way Invesco had dealt with his complaint and referred it to the 
service. One of our investigators reviewed his complaint but did not think that Invesco had 
done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr P feels strongly about the complaint so I 
will explain why I have arrived at my decision.
Mr Ps complaint is that he has been unfairly treated because he purchased his funds 
directly from Invesco. Mr P says that he has not been treated fairly as other clients could 
access the Z share class.
In his submission to the service, Mr P has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Principles for Business and says that his treatment by Invesco is unfair and unethical.
The service is not a regulator and we cant punish a business for failures in adhering to the 
rules and regulations that were in place at the time of the complaint. The role of the service 
is to investigate to see if a business has done anything wrong and if they have, to put the 
client back into the position they would have been in had the error not occurred.
I will respond on Mr Ps point on the FCAs Principle 6 which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly.
Mr P says that preventing him from converting his shares into cheaper share classes is 
incompatible with this principle, unethical and against his best interests.
In Invescos submission, they have said that their ICVC fund range has restrictions on who 
can access different types of share classes. They have explained why different share 
classes have different charges, and I think that the reasons are important to Mr Ps 
complaint.
Invesco say that the Z share class that Mr P wished to access had a charge that was 0.75% 
lower. The reason that this was lower was to take into account the fact that clients would 
have had to use the services of a fund platform provider who would charge their own 
administration fees. If the Z share class was not offered with lower charges, then clients 
would be paying twice for administration.
This approach was the same for clients who accessed the fund via a financial adviser. This 
no trail share class was 0.25% higher than the Z share class and this was to take into the 
fact that Invesco took on administration duties. As Invesco took away certain responsibilities 
from the financial adviser, no intermediary commission was paid away.
Going back to the FCA Principle on customers best interests, businesses have a duty to 
ensure the fair treatment of clients but they dont have to ensure that all clients are treated 
equally  only fairly and I think that this is an important distinction  I believe that Invesco 
have treated Mr P fairly in allowing him to access a cheaper share class than the one he was 
originally invested in.
In their responses to Mr Ps complaint, Invesco wrote about RDR and how it applied to 
different types of clients. The RDR rules were implemented to improve transparency on 
charges and remove legacy trail commission sharing.RDR was targeted on changing the rules on how financial advisers were paid but Mr P did 
not use a financial adviser or fund platform provider to purchase his funds and no 
commission sharing took place.
In his submission to the service, Mr P said that he should be compensated for the reduced 
return on his savings as a result of commission being deducted. Having reviewed the 
documentation available to me, I dont believe that Mr P has been financial disadvantaged 
by holding his share class as no commission has been deducted or paid away.
In summary, I am not persuaded by Mr Ps claim that he has suffered a financial loss as a 
result of Invescos actions. I think that Invesco have acted fairly in saying that the Z share 
class was only available to clients who used a fund platform provider. I also think that 
Invesco were under no obligation to offer the no trail share class to Mr P prior to 2020 as 
this was typically only available to clients who invested via a financial adviser.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman