DRN-3046467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has unfairly reduced the 
reserve funds available on their mortgage account. They want Barclays to re-instate the 
reserve.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage was for about 
£93,200 and included was provision for Mr and Mrs T to borrow an additional £20,000 
without any further checks or fresh loan documentation from the bank. The additional money 
could be borrowed on overdraft from a current account linked to their mortgage.
As Mr and Mrs T repaid the main mortgage, the amount available on overdraft increased  
so Mr and Mrs T could re-borrow any amounts theyd repaid. Mr and Mrs T say this means 
that by April 2021 they could have drawn over £78,000 if theyd so wished. They were 
unhappy when Barclays wrote to them in April 2021 to say the maximum amount available 
was going to be reduced to £17,900  although if they wanted more they could apply for this, 
with the usual assessments for new lending applying.
Mr and Mrs T complained, saying there was nothing in the mortgage offer from 2006 that 
entitled Barclays to re-assess their finances before they could borrow. They think its unfair 
for Barclays to impose that on them now.
When Mr and Mrs T complained, Barclays didnt change its stance. So Mr and Mrs T asked 
us to review the complaint, pointing out that although the altered limit doesnt affect them 
now, they are expecting some high professional fees and costs in 2022 and will want to use 
the reserve facility. They say if Barclays can alter the terms and conditions part way through 
the term then they were mis-sold the mortgage in the first place.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. He noted that the terms and 
conditions sent to Mr and Mrs T in 2006 contained a clause that said the bank could 
withdraw the reserve at any point  so it was able to reduce the amount available. And he 
also noted that the bank hasnt said Mr and Mrs T cant borrow more  they may be able to if 
they complete a financial assessment.
Mr and Mrs T remain unhappy about this, and say they never saw the terms and conditions 
in 2006, and that the mortgage was mis-sold.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs T took out their mortgage in 2006 they received a mortgage offer that said 
the relevant terms and conditions for the linked current account were included. The offer 
warned them that these were important and that by signing the offer they would be bound by 
these terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs T signed the offer, effectively saying they had seen 
the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt see them. And the bank cant prove they were sent as it was so 
long ago. Thats understandable as this was about 18 years ago. I think Mr and Mrs T must 
have signed to accept the mortgage offer, because otherwise Barclays wouldnt have given 
them a mortgage at all. I can also see from the correspondence at the time that the 
mortgage and paperwork was being handled through a solicitor, who most likely checked all 
the relevant documents were available.
I think, on balance, that the evidence suggests Mr and Mrs T did see the terms and 
conditions, despite what they now recall. I do understand why they might not remember 
reading these after so long. But I do think they had them. If they hadnt, then Id have 
expected either Mr and Mrs T or their solicitor to chase for a copy before they signed the 
offer, and I havent seen anything that suggests they did this.
The terms and conditions do allow Barclays to withdraw the reserve or amend it at any time. 
And I think Barclays is entitled to make commercial decisions about how much risk it wants 
to take when lending money. So I cant say Barclays has been unfair here when it decided to 
reduce the amount available  and it did give Mr and Mrs T some months notice.
Im also aware that Barclays offered to reconsider the limit if Mr and Mrs T went through a 
financial assessment, so its not removed this as an option. I cant say a re-assessment is an 
unreasonable request, given how much someones financial situation can change over the 
years. Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs T to decide if they want to do that, or arrange their finances 
differently going forwards.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman