DRN-3933201
The complaint
Mr D complains about Telefonica Insurance Limited S.A.UKs (TIL) failure to make 
reasonable adjustments, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D contacted TIL to make a claim regarding his mobile phone. Mr D said that he was 
unhappy with the service that he received from TIL. He explained that he has a disability that 
required TIL to make reasonable adjustments for him, such as sending a claim form on a 
large font on blue printed paper, amongst other things. 
Mr D said that he was unhappy with the conduct of the TIL agent, during a call on 24 May 
2022. He was also unhappy with the claims form process and the delays in his claim. He 
complained to TIL about the poor service that he received. 
In its final response, TIL accepted that there had been some poor customer service issues. It 
said that it had made reasonable adjustments for Mr D. In that, it accepted that it didnt 
originally have a blue background large font claims form, so it dispensed with the need for 
Mr D to complete the form. It also offered to assist Mr D with completing the form, something 
that Mr D declined. TIL offered Mr D compensation of £75, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr D remained unhappy with the resolution and as he was given his referral rights, referred 
a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think 
it should be upheld. He said that TIL had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly. It had recognised 
that there were some poor customer service issues and offered him compensation of £75 
which he thought was fair. So, he didnt recommend TIL do anything further to resolve the 
complaint. 
TIL accepted the view, Mr D did not. He said that he didnt understand our investigators, 
view as he hadnt made reasonable adjustments for him. He said that the view hadnt been 
printed on blue paper, which is what he required. And that our investigator hadnt understood 
what his complaint had been about. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr D, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the comments made by both parties. My understanding of Mr Ds 
complaint is that TIL failed to make reasonable adjustments for him following a claim he 
made. So, Ive had a look into this and the resolution it offered to see if this was fair and 
reasonable. 
During the claims process, TIL informed Mr D that he would need to complete a claims form, 
which was a normal business practice. TIL sent me copies of the call recordings, and I can 
see that there were discussions that took place regarding the completion of the claims form. 
Mr D informed TIL about his disability that TIL (once it had been highlighted) offered Mr D 
the opportunity for it to complete the form for him via the telephone. 
Mr D declined this assistance and TIL explained that it couldnt print the form on blue paper 
 which it accepted was the incorrect information. It did ultimately waiver the need for Mr D 
to complete the form, which I think was fair. 
TIL also said that following on from its discussions with Mr D, it sent him a form in the 
requested format and has updated its business practices, so that blue forms are available in 
the event of future claims. Which, I think is reasonable and fair. 
I have next considered whether there were any avoidable delays during the claims process. 
Mr D contacted TIL to make his claim on 22 May 2022. I understand that he ought to have 
received a call back and because he didnt, he had to call on 24 May 2022. Following the 
discussions regarding the claim form (as Ive outlined above) a replacement handset was 
sent to Mr D on 26 May 2022. So, within four working days, from the initial contact, Mr Ds 
claim was settled, as a replacement handset was sent to him.  
Ive reviewed the policy terms and it says that within five working days claims should be 
settled. As, the claim was settled within the policy timeframe, Im satisfied that there were no 
avoidable delays. 
Mr D said that TIL made no reasonable adjustments during his claim process, but I dont 
agree, and Ill explain why. Although, it is correct that Mr D was given incorrect information 
regarding whether the claim form could be printed on blue paper, it offered to help him 
complete the claim form and ultimately waivered the need for the completion of the form. So, 
I do think reasonable adjustments were made. 
I do think there were some poor service issues such as the missed call back and the 
conflicting information given to Mr D. But TIL recognised its failings and rightly offered Mr D 
£75 for the trouble and upset it had caused. I understand that Mr D is seeking a far greater 
amount of compensation. So, Ive had a look at this in line with what our service 
recommends were a business has made errors such as this. 
In complaints were there were errors, but those mistakes caused minimal impact, we would 
expect a business to apologise for those errors and ensure that those errors were quickly put 
correct. Im satisfied that TIL not only apologised for the errors but also settled the claim 
within a timely manner. It also offered a monetary compensation, which Im content that fairly 
compensated Mr D for those errors. 
Finally, Mr D said that our investigator had failed to take into consideration reasonable 
adjustments by having his view printed on blue paper. Whilst this is not a complaint involving 
TIL, I understand that Mr D had previously informed our service that it was acceptable for 
him to receive communication in the standard format (without the blue paper). Despite, this, 
Im happy that our investigator did re-send the view to Mr D in the format that he requested. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr D will be, Im 
satisfied that TIL made reasonable adjustments for Mr D during the claims process. And 
offered him compensation of £75, which was fair in the circumstances for the service issues he had experienced. Accordingly, I cant fairly ask TIL to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman