DRN-3437849
The complaint
Mr V complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) put an unfair endorsement on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr V took out a policy with UKI in April when he was living at a temporary address. UKI 
wanted to add an endorsement to the policy when Mr V moved to his new address in 
August. This was regarding his cars overnight security at that address. 
Mr V didnt agree to the endorsement and he cancelled his policy. He thought that it was 
unreasonable for UKI to add the endorsement. He said that if hed known about it from the 
start, he wouldnt have taken out the policy at all. And for UKI to add it during the policy was 
unfair as it forced him to find alternative insurance at very short notice or risk his car being 
uninsured for theft. He felt UKI had treated him poorly and he wanted them to apologise and 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he said he suffered. He also wanted 
them to reimburse him for any additional premium he had to pay as result of having to cancel 
his policy with them and take out a new one at short notice.
Mr V said as follows. They hadnt imposed the endorsement on Mr V late at short notice. 
Instead, theyd made a temporary concession not to apply it from the start of the policy, 
because he was at a temporary address which they were persuaded was only for a matter of 
weeks. They had continued to help him by extending that concession over about five 
months, because in the end he didnt move into the new house until August. It was up to 
them what endorsement they wanted to apply given their view of risk on Mr Vs change of 
address, which was a fundamental change. Their endorsement was justified by their 
underwriting criteria, which they had applied to him as they would to anyone else.  
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Vs complaint. He thought that UKI had 
acted fairly and theyd shown that the endorsement was justified by their underwriting 
criteria. Mr V didnt agree, and I have been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing his complaint Mr V has made a number of detailed points about the law. I've 
considered everything hes said carefully, but in this decision, Ill focus on what I see as 
being the key outstanding points. 
This is because the Financial Ombudsman Service is a dispute resolution service that is an 
alternative to the courts. I must have regard to the law, but ultimately my role is to look at 
individual complaints and decide whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably. 
When Mr V moved to his new address, the electric gates werent working. This was 
important to UKI and they gave him seven days to get them working, or his car wouldnt be 
covered for theft. Mr V did manage to get the gates working in that time frame. But he said it 
came as surprise to him when he received the policy documents on 1 September and they 
included an  endorsement which also said that his car had to be parked within the propertys 
locked gates between 10pm and 7am if within a mile of his house. This was a new term that 
he said he hadnt been aware of. 
Mr V thought that endorsement was unfair, as it would prevent him parking locally to his 
house at night and would effectively impose a curfew on him. And he said that his new 
address had much better overnight security than the old address. At the temporary address 
hed just padlocked the gates, but at the new one he had automatic locking electronic gates 
and CCTV. So it didnt make sense to Mr V for UKI to impose a stricter endorsement at the 
new address than at the old one, as he thought there was a lower risk of theft there than 
before. He felt that UKI were being unreasonable and had only mentioned the endorsement 
at a late stage so that he would have no option but to accept it. 
UKI said that when he took out the policy, they knew he was at a temporary address but 
would be moving to a new address which had electronic locking gates. UKI have shown that 
they were at first unwilling to insure him at the temporary address, but his broker persuaded 
them it would only be for some weeks. So on that basis they didnt impose the same 
overnight security endorsement to the policy then, as a concession. But they made it clear to 
the broker that they would impose a further endorsement when Mr V did move. In the end it 
was more than four months before Mr V moved. Its clear from UKIs file that they were 
checking regularly with the broker when Mr V was going to move and that this was an 
ongoing concern for them. When UKI found out that UKI Mr V had moved to the new 
address but the electronic gates were not working, they gave him an additional seven-day 
grace period to get them working. However if the gates were not working by 30 August, 
theyd stop providing theft cover for his car. Mr V did arrange for the gates to be working by 
that deadline, but I can see that he felt pressured by UKI. 
He said he didnt see the curfew endorsement until 1 September when he received the 
policy documents. I can appreciate that this would have been a stressful time for him , as 
hed just moved to a new house. And I can see that he was frustrated because he felt that 
hed already complied with UKIs requirements about the gates, and he felt that UKI were 
now adding another new requirement that they should have told him about earlier.  
But I dont think its fair to suggest that UKI told him about the endorsement at the last 
minute, so that he had no choice but to accept it as there was no time for him to seek and 
alternative insurance. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that UKI intended that. And I can 
see that UKI told Mr Vs broker about the required endorsement on about 23 August. So we 
would generally consider that to be adequate time for an insured, or for his broker on his 
behalf, to seek and obtain alternative insurance if he wasnt happy with UKIs policy. Mr V 
has told us that he did find alternative insurance, without a curfew restriction. But that 
doesnt mean that UKIs endorsement was unreasonable.  
Mr V thought that there was less risk to his car at his new address than at the old one, so he 
didnt think the additional endorsement was justified. However we think that its not up to 
consumers, or to this Service either, to decide what factors an insurer should take into 
account when assessing the risk to them. The way in which insurers assess risk is complex, 
is statistically based and could involve a number of factors. 
UKI have shown that Mr Vs change of address impacted their risk assessment and 
increased his premium. We think that a change of address is a fundamental change in motor 
insurance, and it does entitle an insurer to change the terms of a consumer's motor 
insurance policy. This is because there may be a higher incidence of claims due to the 
increased risk of theft, traffic density, or other matters, and that is fundamental to the risk the insurer is taking on. So its a matter for the insurers commercial judgement and thats not 
something in which we would interfere unless they were acting unreasonably. 
Further, as the investigator explained, UKI had also showed us their underwriting criteria, 
and that they apply the same endorsement uniformly to all customers in relation to his 
particular make and model of car in particular scenarios. Having seen those criteria, Im 
satisfied that they have treated Mr V the same as they would have done any other customer 
with the same circumstances. And so I dont think that UKI have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, and I dont ask them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
