DRN-3107753
The complaint
Mr N complains about the customer service received from American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express (American Express) when he 
contacted them to discuss encrypted emails he had received. 
What happened
Mr N received two encrypted emails from American Express so he contacted them through 
the online chat portal to check they werent scam emails. Mr N was informed they were 
genuine so he opened them but was required to set up a password. Mr N says he had 
already, on a previous occasion, set up a password to access encrypted emails so was 
unsure why he needed to set this up again. Mr N did then set up another password. Mr N 
raised a complaint about the length of time he was kept on the chat portal and why he hadnt 
been transferred to a manager sooner. He also complained about the number of security 
questions he was asked and why he was required to set up another password. 
American Express responded and explained all their emails to customers for Subject Access 
Requests (SAR) are encrypted, and for any emails with an attachment, they will send it 
securely. American Express said, Mr N should only have had to register once to select a 
password but as the security system isnt managed by them but another company  who Ill 
refer to as company V  they arent in a position to identify what the issue was with using a 
previously saved password. They explained Mr N should contact company V direct if he 
wishes to follow this up. American Express apologised for the length of the chat but they felt 
it lasted as long as it did because the agent needed to provide all available information to   
Mr N to answer his queries. They said the agent did have to speak to their manager on a few 
occasions to ensure the information they were giving was correct. American Express also 
explained the security questions asked were in line with their policy and the reason they ask 
them is to ensure Mr Ns account is safeguarded. They didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N 
remained unhappy and asked for a call from a manager. During this call the manager agreed 
the chat was lengthy and offered a statement credit of £50  which Mr N has received.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N. She thought American Express hadnt acted 
unreasonably. Mr N disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr N will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I think its important to highlight that were an informal dispute resolution service which exists 
to look at disputes between financial services providers and their customers. My role is to 
decide whether American Express has acted fairly and reasonably when providing services 
to Mr N. I can see American Express have responded to Mr Ns complaint and have 
provided statement credit of £50. So, Ive focussed my decision on what I think Mr N remains 
concerned about. 
I can see Mr N, when raising his concern about setting up a new password, is asked to 
contact company V. I understand Mr N is concerned he has been asked to do this when he 
doesnt have a customer relationship with company V. And, Mr N also points out American 
Express About Encrypted Email document tells customers to contact American Express if 
they have problems using the encrypted email tool. American Express say company V 
encrypt American Express emails and ensure they are safe. And, as company V provided 
the instructions for Mr N to open the emails, and the assumption was he had followed these 
correctly, that is why they suggested Mr N contact company V as they would be best placed 
to assist. Ive looked at the transcript of the online chat and its clear Mr N is frustrated that, 
having already created a password for access to encrypted emails, hes been asked to set 
up another one. American Express believe Mr N should only have had to create one 
password and, as that wasnt the case here, I dont think its unreasonable for them to refer 
Mr N to the company who manage the encryption process for American Express. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ns point about American Express literature telling customers to 
contact them if there are any issues. I can see that is what Mr N does and its clear from the 
information American Express have provided that they do try to help. So, I think American 
Express have followed the guidance in their literature with the aim being they will deal with 
the more straightforward encryption issues. But, it appears this was a technical issue which 
they werent sure about so its not unreasonable for them to refer Mr N to company V. I note 
Mr Ns point about having no customer relationship with company V but I havent seen any 
information which suggests they refused to speak with Mr N or referring him back to 
American Express. Mr N is using a product which is managed by company V so I dont see 
why they would refuse to help Mr N  and Ive seen no evidence of that being the case. 
Mr N asks why his original password wasnt saved and why he was required to set up 
another password. This is the query which American Express ask Mr N to contact company 
V about. I can understand why this will have been frustrating for Mr N but its important to 
note the system Mr N is referring to here isnt operated by American Express. So, while I 
cant say they have made an error here I can look at the service Mr N receives and whether 
American Express take steps to help Mr N. And, I think they do try and help Mr N. Its clear 
American Express arent sure about the root cause of the password issue, and as mentioned 
above, they take steps to help Mr N by referring him to company V  which I think is 
reasonable. 
Mr N asks if there are one or two types of encrypted/secure emails used by American 
Express. This isnt a service issue but looking at this more broadly, I can see American 
Express say they send all emails with SAR information in encrypted format and, any emails 
with an attachment, are sent securely. So, it seems the emails sent to Mr N, while they did 
contain an attachment, because they contained SAR information, they were sent in an 
encrypted format. So, I think American Express have acted reasonably here in sending 
sensitive and confidential information in an encrypted format. 
In summary, I dont think American Express have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint, so I wont be asking them to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman