DRN-2670379
The complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). I see Mr W has made a few complaints, about a number of similar 
policies. So to be clear, Ive been looking at the TMPP (number ending in 218), taken out in 
February 2008. 
A TMPP is a type of overarching insurance protection policy, which typically includes 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) together with other features, such as life 
insurance and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be 
added or taken out as the consumer wishes.
Only the mortgage protection element is classed as PPI (or MPPI as Ive called it above) so 
thats what Im specifically looking into here for Mr W. He says he was made to feel the MPPI 
he bought was compulsory when taking out a mortgage. 
What happened
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
For the case Im looking into here (number ending in 218) it seems Mr W took out all 
elements of the insurances Ive listed above. For this particular TMPP policy therefore, his 
total outlay was around £76 per month. Around £45 of this related to mortgage protection; 
the remainder related to life and CIC protection.
I started by thinking carefully about whether Mr W ever agreed to take the mortgage part of 
the protection policy out  the MPPI. Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system 
and other documents which, in my view, show that MPPI was discussed. 
However, as Ive said, as well as MPPI, Mr W took out a life policy and CIC as part of the 
same overall product. I therefore think hed have known that all these types of insurance 
werent compulsory, and I think theres a strong suggestion here that he wanted certain 
forms of protection with his new mortgage arrangements. The TMPP rolled up all these 
elements into a single product, so on balance, I think its much more likely that he knew he 
had a choice about the MPPI cover, just as he did about the other elements. He therefore 
most probably agreed to buy the policy in my view, although I accept that after such a long 
time he might not remember, or indeed agree with this, now. 
Its unfortunate that Halifax doesnt still have the point of sale documentation, but 
businesses dont need to retain documents indefinitely  and Mr W doesnt have these 
either. Nevertheless, Ive seen a lot of very similar sales to this one and I have considerable 
experience of the Halifax sale process and the documents that were typically used. I know, 
for example, that copies of a welcome letter were given to consumers at the point of sale, 
outlining all the types of insurance they were taking out with their mortgage. It set out the 
costs and the individual elements of the TMPP they had accepted or rejected. Halifaxs 
screenshots show Mr W was spoken to, probably at some length, by an adviser. 
So, whilst I can sympathise that weve got very little hard evidence left to look at in this 
case, I think its much more likely Halifax properly obtained his consent.
Next, I looked to see if the MPPI was suitable for Mr W, because Halifax recommended this 
to him as part of an advised sale. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may 
well already have had some sickness protection with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt 
mean the cover wasnt suitable for him. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term 
financial commitment and secured against his home. Therefore, the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The MPPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 12 months if hed needed to claim. 
Mr W cites having savings at the time. Ive seen no direct evidence of the amount quoted 
and since he was buying a house, the same demands on his financial situation apply, as 
Ive described above.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
what I think would have happened in this sale process, the costs were probably set out 
during the meeting, so I think Mr W probably had enough information on which to make an 
informed choice.
I note Mr W has questioned why some of his other Halifax complaints have had a different 
outcome. I do understand this can be confusing, but MPPI sales at various times operated 
under different rules  and circumstances will vary in each case. Ive looked at this case 
and because of its age the absence of documentation, Ive needed to make reasonable 
assumptions in deciding what probably happened. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W, but to uphold his complaint Id need to think it was more 
likely he never gave his proper consent or that there were other major flaws in the sale. I 
simply dont have that evidence and I cant say he was mis-sold the policy as alleged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman