DRN-3248292
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Equitable Plc did not tell him he would have to pay an early 
vesting penalty when he took a protected tax free cash lump sum and transferred the rest 
of his funds from his section 36 buy out pension into a Aegon drawdown pension. 
Mr W said that he felt that the transfer was an internal transaction within Aegon (Scottish 
Equitable being part of Aegon) and therefore the early vesting penalty wouldnt apply as his 
money was still invested with Aegon.
Mr W said Scottish Equitable didnt make it clear in any correspondence that a penalty 
would apply and he has lost out as a result.
For ease of reference, Ill refer in the rest of this decision to the business as Scottish 
Equitable.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr W took advice from an adviser unconnected to Scottish Equitable 
because he wanted to access the tax-free cash from his pension to do some work on his 
property. Mr W was 55 years old at the time. His pension was a section 36 buy out policy, 
which was due to vest at age 65.
Scottish Equitable told Mr W in September 2016 the value of his policy was £50,511.55 
with a transfer value of £42,744.82. There was a difference of £7,766.73 between these 
figures. It later told Mr W this represented the early vesting charge. 
The September 2016 letter did not refer to an early vesting charge, although it did show 
the transfer value was much less. The letter said that the investment was in a with profit 
fund and the amounts were based on current bonus rates which were not guaranteed.
When Scottish Equitable received Mr Ws completed transfer request form, the pension was 
valued as at 7 December 2016 at £49,901.96, with a transfer value of £42,383.28. Scottish 
Equitable informed Mr W of this.
Mr W proceeded with the transfer, £15,374 being paid to him as protected tax-free cash and 
£27,008 being paid into his new drawdown plan, The difference of £361.54 between the 
September valuation and the actual sum received in cash and transferred into Mr Ws 
drawdown plan was due to market movements between those dates.
In correspondence Scottish Equitable advised Mr W that he was not able to transfer 
directly to an external provider to provide a drawdown plan. So, to access the tax-free 
cash, Mr W opted to transfer to a drawdown plan on the Aegon platform. 
Scottish Equitable said any changes to the plan internal or external would have triggered 
the early vesting charge due to taking his pension prior to the pension commencement 
date and exiting the with profit fund. It said the higher valuation was based on the plan 
running its term. Scottish Equitable said the early vesting charge was calculated taking into 
account that Mr W was vesting his benefits at age 55, 10 years earlier than the buy out 
plan pension age.
Scottish Equitable referred Mr W to the terms and conditions of the policy set out in the 
policy booklet.
At page 33 under the heading Charges for a change of circumstances it said this 
about early vesting.
(a) Early Vesting
Where a policy is vested before pension date for any reason, an early vesting 
deduction shall be made as follows. However, there are special provisions where 
the reason for vesting is death. These are set out below in (b), (c) and (d)
(1) deduction shall be calculated by Scottish Equitable and shall take account of 
charges that would have been made had the policy not vest early. The 
deduction shall also take account of increased Allocated Value that would not 
have been given had the pension date been the early vesting date. The 
deduction shall be calculated by Scottish Equitable in good faith and Scottish 
Equitable shall have available for inspection details of how a deduction is 
calculated from time to time. The deduction shall be taken from the amount 
otherwise available after the cancellation of Allotted Units and the application, 
where applicable of a Market Value Adjustment as set out in condition 5.
Mr W said he did not become aware until later that he had paid an early vesting 
charge. His adviser said he would have been better off by taking the transfer value of 
£42,744 and standard tax-free cash of £10,686. This would amount to £32,058 left in 
his plan, with the tax-free cash taken. 
Mr W through his adviser complained to Scottish Equitable about being charged an 
early vesting charge. He asked for Scottish Equitable to refund this into his new 
drawdown plan. The business did not agree, so Mr W brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and concluded that Scottish Equitable 
had not done anything wrong, having complied with its terms and conditions when 
deducting the early vesting charge. Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. He said in summary:
At no time was an 'early vesting penalty' mentioned;
It was reasonable to assume that a transfer value and an early vesting penalty 
were not the same;
If correspondence was fair and transparent it should have said that this penalty 
would be applied if Mr W transferred; 
Saying that the balance could not be transferred externally indicated that the funds 
were staying within the Aegon umbrella. There was no mention of this still being 
classed as a transfer.
The policy terms booklet was historic and written before Aegon took over from 
Scottish Equitable and at a time when the only option was an annuity with the 
provider. Mr W was not taking an early vesting annuity, merely a lump sum leaving 
the rest invested with Aegon. 
The priority was to ensure Mr W accessed money for his home improvements and 
the remainder was still invested with Aegon. Scottish Equitable accepted our investigators view, referring to further parts of the policy 
booklet, in particular:
Page 26 and 27 (Part 10) where the pension is commenced early. This states the 
amount to be transferred is calculated by using units at the bid price but taking into 
account a market value adjustment and deducting that. Scottish Equitable said this is 
how Mr Ws transfer value was arrived at.
Under condition 8, Charges, clause 7a, it said there was a discussion about early 
vesting. It explains that where a policy vests before the pension commencement 
date, an early vesting deduction will be applied. The deduction is a calculation of the 
charges that we would have been able to be taken from the plan, had it not vested 
early.
Mr Ws complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I see it, the terms and conditions applied to Mr W however old the policy booklet was. It 
seems clear to me that early vesting for any reason, ie moving to another product, would 
invoke the charge.
His plan did not run the full term. Instead he transferred out of the with profits plan and 
vested his pension at 55, opting to take free cash and to set up a drawdown pension. This 
was a different product where Mr W was able to drawdown benefits from his plan, rather 
than waiting for his pension to pay out at 65 with a terminal bonus.
I cant therefore see that Scottish Equitable wrongly applied the early vesting charge. 
Based on the information provided, nor can I see that the way it calculated this charge was 
unfair or unreasonable.
I have gone on to consider whether there were any communication failures here, which 
Scottish Equitable can fairly be held responsible for. Mr W said he was led to believe that 
as he was transferring internally, transfer charges wouldnt apply. Mr W says the 
distinction between the two separate legal entities Aegon UK and Aegon Platform was not 
made clear to him.  
However, as I see it, Mr W has not lost out because of the difference in these two legal 
entities. The charge comes about because he transferred out of his with profits section 36 
buy out policy, which didnt vest until age 65, into a different product, a drawdown pension. 
This change of product triggered the early vesting charge. Scottish Equitable told Mr W 
that he could not transfer externally, but I cant see that it told him that transferring 
internally would not trigger a transfer charge. 
Having looked carefully at the correspondence exchanged between Mr Ws adviser and 
Scottish Equitable, I think it did make it clear that there were two different valuations, a 
lower one upon transfer. Whilst nowhere in the correspondence was it specifically said 
there was an early vesting charge, there was a marked difference shown in the valuations.
I cant see that Mr W or his adviser asked Scottish Equitable whether he would be treated 
as transferring his benefits, if he transferred into the drawdown plan on the platform. Mr W 
had an adviser at the time of transfer, so I dont think it was for Scottish Equitable to advise 
him. I think it would have been reasonable to expect this to be clarified, if necessary. His 
existing buy out plan was a with profits fund (this was made clear in the September 2016 letter). It is not unusual for charges to apply in this way to with profits funds.
The different amounts involved were set out in the September 2016 letter. The final figures 
were set out in the letter to Mr W in December 2016. The difference of £7,518.68 was clear 
and apparent, in my view. The letter showed £15,374.58 paid out as protected tax-free 
cash and £27,008.70 transferred to the Aegon platform. The charge that has been taken is 
in line with the published terms and conditions for the product. I dont think I can fairly hold 
Scottish Equitable responsible for any miscommunication or misunderstanding here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August  2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman