DRN-4271220
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost, as the result of an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Briefly, Mrs M was showed by a relative a shop advertising items on a social media platform 
that claimed to be closing down. The shop was advertising various items, such as jewellery, 
electronics and mobile phones. Mrs M enquired with the seller via messages about a mobile 
phone, which the seller said was available for £145 including delivery. Mrs Ms close relative 
decided to purchase this item, which I understand Mrs M helped make the payment for from 
the relatives own bank account. However, I understand that Mrs M and her relative were 
told the payment was being returned due to them selecting business account at the time of 
making that payment, when the account details were for a personal account. Mrs M says the 
£145 was returned to the relatives account. 
Mrs M agreed to send the payment again. She also agreed with the seller to purchase 
jewellery/gold (necklaces, bracelets and rings) which they were selling for £380. For all the 
items (gold and mobile phone), Mrs M and the seller agreed to a total purchase price of 
£450. 
Mrs M then received further communications from the seller saying the money was being 
returned in error by the sellers bank. It was agreed between Mrs M and the seller that the 
price would be slightly cheaper, and she proceeded to make another payment for £430.
Mrs M was in contact with the seller about the delivery of the items, as shed not received a 
tracking number or the items despite her requests. The seller then informed Mrs M that due 
to further errors on their end, all the payments had been sent back  to Mrs Ms account and 
her relatives (I understand Mrs Ms relative had also made an order). For Mrs M, the seller 
referred to the payments of £450 and £430. 
Between this time, Mrs M told us she contacted HSBC via its chat function to ask the bank if 
it could see any pending refunds on the account. At this time, the banks agent said they 
couldnt see any pending refunds for the amounts Mrs M had said but that as she said the 
merchant had issued the refund the day before, it could take up to five working days to 
reflect on the account. The agent suggested waiting until then. Mrs M shared that the seller 
was requesting payment again as they were saying the payments had been sent back in 
error. She commented that she didnt want to pay so much money and for them to scam her. 
She was told a dispute could be raised and was given some details about the process. 
Mrs M said she would wait. 
In the further communication between the seller and Mrs M she was told that all items would 
return to their original prices and if she wanted to proceed with the order they would agree a 
reduced price of £700 for all the items (her and her relatives). Mrs M proceeded to make a 
further payment of £700 to the account details provided.  
Unfortunately, Mrs M was interacting with a fraudster and had been duped into paying a total 
of £1,580 (made up of three payments for £450, £430 and £700, which she made between 
6 March 2023 and 9 March 2023 from her HSBC account). Mrs M didnt receive the phone or 
jewellery she thought she was purchasing. Mrs M contacted HSBC to report the scam on 
23 March 2023. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). This means HSBC has made a commitment to reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams like this one except in limited circumstances. 
HSBC investigated Mrs Ms fraud claim and it issued its final response on 3 May 2023 not 
upholding it. In summary, it didnt think Mrs M had carried out sufficient checks to satisfy 
herself of the credibility of the company or seller, it considered Mrs M ought to have 
questioned the cost of the items she thought she was buying as to whether they were in line 
with the market value and, that she failed to check payments one and two had been returned 
to her before making a further payment. HSBC also considered there to be appropriate fraud 
warnings in place at the time she made the payments. HSBC attempted to recover Mrs Ms 
funds from the receiving bank, however, no funds were recoverable. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, she thought Mrs M 
had been the victim of a scam, but, when considering the CRM code, she didnt think HSBC 
was liable to refund her the money shed lost. She said this because she thought there was 
enough going on for Mrs M to have had concerns about the payments she was making. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs M authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint. 
Broadly speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, she would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code. As 
Ive said above, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. A Firm may 
choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom 
they transacted was legitimate. Ill explain why.I think a key factor here is the price Mrs M was paying for the items she was looking to buy - 
the mobile phone and the jewellery/gold. And whether the prices were too good to be true 
and to such an extent that it should have given Mrs M cause for concern that it might not be 
a legitimate sale or that the items might not even exist. 
Mrs M agreed a total price of £450 for all the items with the mobile phone being priced at 
£145. The various gold items, Mrs M confirmed with the seller were 22 carat gold. When 
taking into account the make and specification of the mobile phone Mrs M had agreed to 
purchase, I find the price offered too good to be true, based on the searches I have 
completed. I recognise Mrs M says the prices were claimed to be wholesale prices, but Im 
not persuaded the seller telling Mrs M that the items were being sold at wholesale prices due 
to it closing down in and of itself persuasive. 
I note Mrs M in her submissions to our Investigator, has referred to having a business and 
that she said she knows when you want to get rid of stock it can be sold at the buying rate  
with no profit being made. But on balance, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the 
prices the items were offered at to Mrs M were in line with the market value and therefore, I 
think this ought reasonably to have given Mrs M pause for thought  although I do 
acknowledge Mrs M will not agree with this point. Shes further told us that in January 2023, 
she bought a brand-new phone (same make and model) for £250. Ive not seen evidence of 
this, however, I still find the seller offering the item at £105 cheaper than this, to have been a 
factor that should have given Mrs M some cause for concern.  
Further, based on what Ive seen and been told, I think Mrs M herself had some concerns 
from the outset. Looking at the messages between Mrs M and the seller, I note after shed 
enquired about the mobile phone and asked for the bank details, she commented, if its a 
scam can very easily get my money back. I can also see a further comment of if that 
reaches and everythings okay and you havent run off with my money lol then Ill think about 
ordering more things. To my mind, this strongly suggests that Mrs M at the time of making 
the payments, herself wasnt convinced that whom she was transacting with was legitimate 
or that the she was making a payment for genuine goods or services. I can also see Mrs M 
questioned why the items were so cheap. 
With all this in mind, while Ive carefully taken into account what Mrs M has told us about the 
items and why she disagrees the prices were too good to be true, for the reasons set out 
above, Im afraid I dont agree. 
When reporting the scam to HSBC Mrs M explained shed searched the unit the seller said 
they operated from online and said it existed at the location the business claimed to be at. 
She added that her relative had told her it was genuine, although in the call with the bank 
she didnt state what it was that had convinced the relative of this. Mrs M didnt receive any 
invoice/paperwork for the items she was purchasing from the seller. I do note Mrs M says 
shes purchased items over social media platforms previously and not been provided with a 
receipt. Mrs M maintains that this is not unusual for businesses on social media platforms 
and added that many businesses on such platforms dont have/show an address. 
Whilst I can appreciate that making purchases over such platforms has and continues to 
increase, given the items Mrs M was looking to purchase in this case  mobile phone and 
numerous items of 22 carat gold jewellery, I think the lack of documentation ought to have 
led Mrs M to proceed more cautiously than she did. Im mindful that other than the advert/ 
pictures of the items on the platform which Mrs M says were deleted once sold, she doesnt 
appear to have been provided with anything that supported the seller did have the items in 
question for sale. After Mrs M made the payment of £450, the seller contacted her to say the funds were being 
returned. It said the reason for this related to the first payment being sent to one of its 
business accounts. The seller said as its business accounts are linked and the same 
payment has come in from Mrs Ms account, the bank has returned this payment. I think 
what the seller was telling Mrs M ought to have caused her some concern and that she 
should have fairly and reasonably have paused to think about the plausibility of what she 
was being told. It was after Mrs M was told again about an error with the sellers bank in 
which both payments  the £450 and £430 were being returned that she contacted HSBC 
via its chat function to see if there were any pending refunds to her account. At this time, the 
bank informed Mrs M that it couldnt see any pending credits to the account but that it could 
take five working days and so advised her to wait. Im persuaded Mrs M ought to have 
waited to have received the payments back into her account before proceeding to make 
further payments  especially when taking into account the messages shed received from 
the seller about the delays with the delivery and the bank issues being communicated by the 
seller. 
I also think there were further red flags that ought to have given Mrs M pause for thought as 
the scam progressed. I will explain why. Whilst it is not the clearest, based on what Ive seen 
and been told, it appears that when the seller informed Mrs M that all three payments had 
been sent back, this also included a payment her relative had made for an order. Due to the 
further issues, the seller then offered to sell all the items (again, it appears to have included 
the relatives order) for £700. Given that the three payments the seller refers to in the chat 
messages were £450, £680 and £430, I think this ought to have caused Mrs M some 
concern. I acknowledge the seller had previously made a reduction in the price agreed with 
Mrs M due to the issue it claims occurred with its bank when making the payment for £430. 
But I find the new price offered for all the items ought to have appeared unusual to Mrs M 
and led her to question what she was being told. I say this because, Mrs M agreed a price of 
£430 for her items and the other payment the seller referred to as being returned is for £680 
(I understand this to be the relatives order). So, all the items being offered at £700 to my 
mind ought to have been a flag here as this represented around a further £400 reduction in 
the prices previously agreed and which Mrs M believed were already being sold at wholesale 
prices.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mrs M from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that  
Mrs M ought reasonably to have been concerned that things werent as they seemed. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing 
that she was making payments towards genuine goods, or that the person she was dealing 
with was legitimate. So, Im not persuaded that HSBC should have reimbursed Mrs Ms loss 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.  
Ive also carefully taken into account what Mrs M has told me about being vulnerable at the 
time. Id like to assure her that I dont underestimate the impact the whole experience will 
have had on her and her family and that Ive thought carefully about what shes said. But I 
dont think what Ive been told was significant enough to have meant Mrs M couldnt have 
taken steps to protect herself from the scam she fell victim to. 
I want to emphasise though that this is not to underestimate the circumstances she was in at 
the time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on her. It is simply that I dont find the 
evidence would justify a finding that Mrs M was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
herself here. Should HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as HSBC engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character transactions 
with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. And under the 
CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP scam, it was 
required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Mrs M was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider HSBC wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because the payments 
wouldnt have appeared so out of character or unusual. Whilst I recognise the payments 
were a lot of money to Mrs M, I dont find them to be particularly large or remarkable. So I 
dont think the CRM Code required that HSBC display an effective warning as part of the 
payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to 
question the payments with Mrs M before allowing them to be processed.
Recovery of funds
Ive also considered whether HSBC did all it could to try and recover the money Mrs M lost, 
once she had reported the scam to it. From what Ive seen, I think the bank couldve acted 
quicker than it did in contacting the receiving bank. However, I dont find any possible delay 
made a difference in this case. I say this because, the funds had unfortunately already left 
the receiving account before Mrs M had reported the matter to HSBC. So overall, I dont 
think there was anything more HSBC couldve done to recover Mrs Ms funds. 
Its very unfortunate Mrs M has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her and I 
dont underestimate the impact this has had. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to refund her the money she sadly lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman