DRN-2915719
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased his
credit limit on several occasions.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said:
Mr B had an existing credit card with NewDay with a credit limit of £1,400.
In February 2014 Mr B successfully applied for a credit card with Aqua and was given a
£250 credit limit. In Mr Bs application, he told Aqua that he was employed and earned
£24,000.
In May 2014 Aqua increased Mr Bs credit limit to £750. In November 2014 Aqua increased
Mr Bs credit limit to £1,000. In March 2015 Mr Bs credit file shows he had a County Court
Judgement recorded. In the same month, Aqua increased Mr Bs credit limit to £2,000. In
August 2016 the credit limit was increased to £3,000 and in February 2017 it was increased
to £4,250.
Last year, Mr B complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit
limit. Aqua didnt agree and said the credit limit increases had been applied in line with its
lending criteria and the information it knew about Mr B. Aqua also said Mr B hadnt told it he
was experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld
Mr Bs complaint and said Aqua shouldve been aware of the CCJ on Mr Bs credit file in
March 2015 so shouldve completed better checks before increasing his credit limit. Aqua
didnt agree and pointed out the information it obtained from the credit reference agency
didnt show an increased risk of financial difficulties at the points it had increased Mr Bs
credit limit. Aqua asked to appeal, so Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning
whether Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit limits. I havent found that Aqua
lent irresponsibly in this case.
Before agreeing to lend, a business should carry out proportionate checks to ensure the debt
is affordable and sustainable for the consumer. Theres no set list of checks a business has
to complete but they type or amount of credit and what they know about the applicant may
cause it to carry out additional checks before deciding whether to proceed.
Ive looked at each credit limit and the information Aqua had available. Aqua says it took the
information Mr B gave in his application form into account. Aqua has also sent us
affordability data that shows the information it found on Mr Bs credit file. Mr B had another
credit card with NewDay, so the lender also had details of how hed handled that account
available as well.
For broadly the same reasons as the investigator has given, I agree that the initial credit limit
increases from £250 to £1,000 between May 2014 and November 2014 were fair. Each time,
Aqua looked at Mr Bs credit file and didnt find an increase in overall borrowing or adverse
credit. I can see Mr B had a late payment on his other NewDay credit card in February 2013,
but Aqua has confirmed this was taken into consideration. Mr B was up to date with his
payments and wasnt showing signs of financial difficulties. Im satisfied Aqua lent
responsibly.
Our investigator advised Aqua that they had seen a credit report from Mr B that showed he
had a CCJ recorded in March 2015 and feels that shouldve been an indication he was
struggling financially. They said that, had Aqua carried out proportionate checks it would
most likely have not proceeded with the credit limit increase.
The issue I have is that the date Mr Bs CCJ was granted in March 2015 was the day before
Aqua increased his credit limit. Whilst I appreciate Mr B did have a CCJ, that information
generally takes some time to show on a credit file. Im not persuaded it was showing with the
credit reference agencies when Aqua decided to increase Mr Bs credit limit to £2,000 in
March 2015. So Ive looked at the other information Aqua had available. Whilst the CCJ
wasnt specifically noted on the information Aqua received from the credit reference
agencies, I can see that in April 2015 (the month after the credit limit increase) a potential
financial difficulties indicator was added. I think that reflects the new CCJ on Mr Bs credit
file.
The information Aqua obtained from Mr Bs credit file for March 2015 doesnt show any new
adverse information or arrears. Mr Bs other credit card balances appear to have reduced
slightly in the months before. And I note that Mr B had a £1,000 credit limit but his balance
was generally £700 or less. I havent found signs that would indicate to Aqua that Mr B was
experiencing financial difficulties in March 2015 when it approved his credit limit. And Im
satisfied the credit limit increase was in line with Aquas lending criteria. I havent been
persuaded that Aqua lent irresponsibly when it increased Mr Bs credit limit in March 2015.
As Ive said above, I can see the information Aqua obtained from the credit reference
agencies changed in April 2015, the month after the CCJ was granted. The affordability data
shows an increased risk of financial difficulties between April 2015 and August 2015. But in
September 2015 the information provided by the credit reference agencies removed the
marker that indicated Mr B was at risk of financial difficulties. Im satisfied the credit data
Aqua obtained took Mr Bs CCJ into account.
In August 2016 Aqua increased the credit limit to £3,000 and in February 2017 it was
increased to £4,250. Ive looked at the information Aqua had available each time. Mr Bs
credit card accounts were well managed without missed payments. Mr Bs outstanding
balance wasnt close to his credit limit before it was increased from £2,000 to £3,000, only
exceeding around £1,450 once. Again, after the credit limit was increased to £3,000 Mr B
generally kept a lower balance. In September 2016 he owed £1,830 but in all the other
months, Mr Bs outstanding balance was around £1,050. I dont think the way Mr B was
operating his credit card accounts showed signs he was experiencing financial difficulties
that shouldve caused Aqua to carry out more comprehensive checks.In February 2017 Aqua applied the final increase to Mr Bs credit card, taking the limit to
£4,250. Again, the credit file information Aqua obtained beforehand didnt show sharp
increases in Mr Bs levels of debt. There was no new adverse credit reported or arrears
found. Mr Bs existing credit limit was £3,000 but, except for one month, his outstanding
balance was generally just over £1,000. As the information Aqua saw didnt show anything
that indicated Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties or struggling to maintain his
payments I havent found it lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit limit.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I havent found that Aqua lent irresponsibly when
it increased Mr Bs credit limit between 2014 and 2017.
I asked Mr B and Aqua to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. We didnt hear back from Mr B. Aqua responded and 
confirmed it accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I havent found Aqua lent irresponsibly, 
for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman