DRN-3418867
The complaint
Mr R complains that he didnt receive the full amount of funds he tried to withdraw from an 
ATM, but Nationwide Building Society held him liable for them.
What happened
Mr R used his Nationwide debit card to withdraw £160 from an Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM) operated by another bank. Ill refer to them as J. Mr R described the notes from the 
withdrawal were partly folded and the total amount he received was only £80.
Mr R raised the problem with Nationwide and they requested information from J about the 
withdrawal. J looked into the withdrawal and the operation of the ATM. J told Nationwide 
they couldnt find any problems with the ATM, the records showed the withdrawal made by 
Mr R was successful and the ATM didnt have any excess cash left in it.
Nationwide passed the results of their enquiry back to Mr R who was left unsatisfied and 
Nationwide went back to J to ask them again to look into the operation of the ATM that day. 
J came back with the same information.
Mr R wanted the CCTV reviewing as he believed this would show the funds he withdrew 
were short of what hed requested from the machine. The CCTV wasnt reviewed and is no 
longer available.
Mr R complained to Nationwide about the handling of his loss and the matter was again 
looked into. Nationwide concluded that based on the evidence provided by J, the withdrawal 
was successful and declined to refund Mr R.
Mr R remained unsatisfied and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an 
independent review. Mr Rs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators and he 
thought the evidence Nationwide had relied on was sufficient to hold Mr R liable for the 
transaction. Mr R disagreed and raised the issue of the CCTV not being viewed and the 
possibility that a cash trap machine might have been responsible for his loss. Mr R wanted 
a further review of his complaint which has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide werent the operators of the ATM used by Mr R, this meant they had to rely on J 
to conduct their investigation. J examined their records of the ATM used by Mr R and 
couldnt find any reason why the ATM might not have been operating properly. Their records 
indicated the withdrawal made by Mr R was successful and the ATM didnt have any excess 
cash left in it. J told Nationwide the ATM balanced, which meant the cash left in the 
machine matched the records of the ATMs activity. J confirmed this when Nationwide asked 
them to look again at what happened when Mr R used the ATM.
What that means here is that the records differ from Mr Rs recollection of what happened at 
the ATM. I appreciate hes critical of the decision not to review CCTV, and hes speculated 
that it would show the money he withdrew was less than he asked for. As theres no CCTV, I 
cant assess it as part of the complaint. 
It's unlikely Nationwide would own any CCTV at the ATM as it wasnt operated by them, but I 
dont think they needed to ask for it as theyd already requested J to look into what 
happened. It was Js responsibility to assess their records and they were satisfied the ATM 
was working properly. I think its also doubtful that any CCTV would be close enough to be 
able to count the notes dispensed from the machine, but in any event I dont think it makes a 
difference that it wasnt asked for.
Mr R has also speculated that a cash trap device could have been responsible for his 
missing funds. Theres no evidence of any device attached to the ATM he used to withdraw 
funds from J. Mr R says he only received £80, which would mean the cash trap was able to 
take £80. These devices are generally designed to divert all the cash withdrawn from an 
ATM, rather than a portion of the cash. Ive reviewed the evidence hes sent in of similar 
devices, but I dont think this is the explanation here.
In summary, Nationwide followed up Mr Rs concerns by asking J to look into the operation 
of the ATM. J looked into the matter on two occasions and couldnt find any evidence the 
ATM was faulty. The evidence they presented to Nationwide showed the withdrawal was 
successful. I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to rely on this evidence and hold Mr R 
liable for the full amount of the withdrawal and I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman