DRN-2815318
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in June 2010. 
Mr D paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr D says 
that he was told that he had to take out this account in order to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold. Mr D did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ds complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr D, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I started by thinking about whether Mr D was aware the URCA was optional and whether he 
was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that he 
was. I say this because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax. So, I 
think that Mr D wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for him. 
I note that Mr D has explained that he took out the account in order to get an overdraft 
facility. But I cant see that his overdraft changed at the time of this sale as he had held and 
used a £100 overdraft prior to this upgrade. So, I dont think that its likely that Mr D was told 
that this was the only way to get an overdraft. 
Overall, I think that it is more likely that Mr D was told that by upgrading his account he 
would be able to get a fee-free overdraft. 
To explain further, one of the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned 
overdraft of up to £300, though I note that this was subject to application and Mr D did not 
apply for an overdraft of this size until some months after the upgrade. This means that if a 
consumer stayed below the £300 overdraft limit or their agreed limit if lower, they wouldnt 
have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. The monthly fee for the URCA was £12.50 at 
the time. So, as long as Mr D used his overdraft within the £300 fee-free portion (or his 
agreed limit if lower) for 13 days or more each month, he was financially better off by having 
the URCA. I can see that the month prior to this upgrade Mr D was being charged more than 
the cost of the URCA in daily overdraft fees, so, in essence, I think that he upgraded 
knowing he did not have to in order to reduce the cost of using an overdraft, rather than to 
get an overdraft in the first instance.
Mr D has explained that he held a separate account with Halifax and therefore he questions 
why he would open a separate account rather than increase an overdraft on the account he 
already held. He also has explained that he always thought that the new account had a fee 
and that he took it out in order to get an overdraft. I cant say why Mr D chose to open a new 
account rather than getting an overdraft on his existing account, but this on its own does not 
mean that the new account was mis-sold. The evidence suggests that the new account was 
free prior to it being changed to the URCA a few months later and from the statements it 
looks as if this was done in an attempt to reduce the cost of the overdraft. So, on balance, I 
am not persuaded that Mr D upgraded the new account in order to get an overdraft facility he 
already held.
At the time the account was taken out, the other major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. I note that Mr D says he did not need the home emergency cover, or the travel 
insurance as he lived in employer related accommodation and did not travel. I also note that 
he said he had his own breakdown cover. But I cant see why he could not have used the 
breakdown cover that came with the account if he so wished. I also can see transactions to 
orange after the sale that suggest that the mobile phone insurance may have been useful to 
him. But overall, I think that the main benefit that Mr D was interested in was the interest and 
fee free overdraft facility.
This account was not recommended to Mr D. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr D. But it did need to provide Mr D with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account came with as 
it was, after all, trying to make the account seem attractive to Mr D. I accept that Mr D may 
not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I cant 
see anything about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off agreeing to the account had he been given more information about it. Especially as I 
believe that he agreed to the account for the overdraft benefits that it came with.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Mr D. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr D the account fees 
that hes been charged whilst hes held the URCA. I completely understand that this will be 
frustrating to Mr D as he strongly feels that his account was mis-sold. I also understand that 
with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA may not have represented good value for money to 
him. But I cant uphold his complaint due to this. I can only uphold the complaint about the 
sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it 
was.
I should highlight that this decision represents the final stage in this services process. But 
Mr D is free to pursue this matter elsewhere if he so wishes.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman