DRN-3013362
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs R complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr G and Mrs R bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 20 February 2020, to cover a holiday from 8 July 2020 to 
23 July 2020.  
Mr G and Mrs R paid £533.76 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered both Mrs Rs declared medical conditions and also for their son and daughters 
declared medical conditions. 
Mr G and Mrs R paid an additional premium of £80.54 for Terrorism Cancellation Cover, 
Travel Disruption Extension and Gadget Cover. They paid a total of £614.30 for the policy 
including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT).
On 11 June 2020, Mr G and Mrs Rs holiday was cancelled by their holiday provider. On 
25 June 2020, Mr G and Mrs R contacted the broker to cancel their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said because the policy was outside of the 14-day cooling off period, no 
monetary refund was available. However, they were willing to offer a pro rata refund in the 
form of a voucher for £96.85. This was calculated from the date the policy was cancelled by 
Mr G and Mrs R. Great Lakes hadnt included the premium Mr G and Mrs R paid for their 
Terrorism Cancellation Cover, Travel Disruption Extension and Gadget Cover within its 
calculations.
Unhappy, Mr G and Mrs R complained to Great Lakes and then brought their complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. She thought it
was fair for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata voucher, but it wasnt in line with what our service
considered to be fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Great Lakes should provide
Mr G and Mrs R with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the single trip insurance
policy from the date the holiday was cancelled. She also thought Great Lakes should refund
the pro-rata premiums Mr G and Mrs R paid for their Travel Disruption Extension. 
With regards to the Terrorism Cancellation Cover and Gadget Cover, these were provided 
by a separate underwriter and they are responsible for Mr G and Mrs Rs complaint about 
the refund of premiums on these elements of the policy. The sellers of those policies have 
informed us they are prepared to offer Mr G and Mrs R a cash refund on these elements of 
their policy and they have been calculated as follows:
Terrorism Cancellation Cover  a pro rata refund of £6.30 from the date the holiday 
was cancelled on a single trip policy; and
Gadget Cover  a full refund of £13.99 on a single trip policy.
Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. Our investigator explained that it was 
open to Mrs R and Mr G to accept this or they could set up new complaints against the 
underwriter if they remained unhappy with the refunds offered by the relevant underwriters. 
Great Lakes responded and recalculated the refund based on the investigators findings. It 
agreed to refund Mr G and Mrs R £161.84 in the form of a voucher from the date the holiday 
was cancelled which our investigator thought was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G and Mrs R disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
In summary, they said they decline the voucher element offered by Great Lakes because:
They dont think the amount offered in the form of a voucher is fair as they paid over 
£500 for specialist insurance having a child with a rare illness; and
The voucher wont purchase anything that will be on a like for like basis as travel 
insurance costs a lot more given their own circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Great Lakes is the provider of Mr G and Mrs Rs single trip travel insurance policy and their
optional Travel Disruption Extension. So, Great Lakes is the business responsible for Mr G 
and Mrs Rs complaint about the refund of premiums on these elements of their policy. 
My decision will focus on those aspects of the policy because, as our investigator explained, 
the other additional cover options Mr G and Mrs R purchased, were underwritten by different 
insurers. So, if Mr G and Mrs R remain unhappy with the cash refunds offered, theyll need 
to let our investigator know so that she can set up new complaints against the relevant 
insurers. 
Rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr G and Mrs R held have a cooling off period 
of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr G and Mrs R didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under 
industry rules, even if Mr G and Mrs R had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt 
be entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk 
of them cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during 
that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr G and Mrs Rs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline 
their cancellation rights under the contract. These apply to both the basic policy and to any
additional cover options purchased and say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr G and Mrs Rs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr G and Mrs Rs policy was purchased on 20 
February 2020 and cancelled on 25 June 2020. This was more than 14 days after they
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term
relating to discretion is intended to cover.
This means I dont think Mr G and Mrs P are entitled to any refund of premiums under the
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the
complaint.
I understand Mr G and Mrs Rs planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip
insurance policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought
about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industryrules and the terms and conditions of Mr G and Mrs Rs contract because of the exceptional
and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties
to the insurance contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr G and Mrs Rs contract with Great Lakes 
to be performed  cover under the policy started on 20 February 2020.
Mr G and Mrs R werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes 
also covered Mr G and Mrs R for cancellation cover from the policy start date on 20 
February 2020.
So, the premium Mr G and Mrs R paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday
due to any of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
if one of the family fell ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr G and Mrs R making a successful claim under the
basic policy and the optional Travel Disruption Extension from the policy start date until their 
holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020. Great Lakes would have covered the risk of Mr G 
and Mrs R making a successful claim under their Travel Disruption Extension from their
intended departure date. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had
commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not
returnable. So, regardless of what Mr G and Mrs Rs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair 
for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time.
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020 due to Covid-19, Great
Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr G and Mrs Rs single trip travel insurance policy. The
holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in
relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being
cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead,
Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr G and 
Mrs R were travelling abroad.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr G and Mrs R
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy
from the date the holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020.
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr G and Mrs R paid for their 
optional Travel disruption extension cover. Travel disruption extension cover includes 
extended cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced 
stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk of a claim under the optional 
travel disruption extension cover from the date the holiday was cancelled. 
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult to
tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr G and Mrs R didnt travel 
on their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the additional
cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy.
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra cover
at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr G and Mrs 
Rs holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been calculated
on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the policy. However,
the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance policy, so I dont
think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional cover options which 
Mr G and Mrs R paid for any differently.
How the refund should be paid
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr G and Mrs 
Rs premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr G and Mrs Rs reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the
insurance policy. Mr G and Mrs R entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a 
premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the 
policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is 
moved to a future date.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to
Mr G and Mrs R. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable,
so it can be used by either Mr G and Mrs R or by a third party. The voucher can be used to 
buy a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip.
I understand why Mr G and Mrs R may not wish to use a voucher. They say theyre unlikely 
to be able to purchase a policy thats like for like and bearing in mind their own 
circumstances.  So, they would like a cash refund instead. I appreciate their feelings on this 
and why this may prove to be difficult. However, the transfer of the voucher isnt so restricted 
 they have the option to transfer the voucher and it can be transferred to any third party. I 
dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the 
voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances.
Calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for the basic policy or the additional cover options
down into pre-travel cancellation and post-departure cover and Great Lakes hasnt
demonstrated that theres a material unevenness in the incidence of risk across the life of its
single trip travel insurance policies.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr G and Mrs R unfairly or any differently to 
other customers in similar circumstances.
The premium Mr G and Mrs R paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 155 days 
from the policy start date (20 February 2020) to the original policy end date on 23 July 2020. 
So, any pro-rata refund should equate to the premiums equivalent to 29 unused days of 
cover from the date the holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020 until the original
end date of the insurance policy on 23 July 2020.Great Lakes has offered Mr G and Mrs R £161.84 (including the additional premium for 
Travel Disruption Extension cover) in the form of a voucher. Taking everything into account, I 
think the value of the voucher, now it has been recalculated, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr G and Mrs Rs voucher on the following basis:
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date their holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020; and
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional Travel Disruption Extension 
from the date their holiday was cancelled on 11 June 2020.
The refund should include the proportionate amount of IPT Mr G and Mrs R paid on the 
premiums for the following additional cover option of Travel Disruption Extension.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr G and Mrs Rs complaints against 
Great Lakes Insurance SE.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman