DRN-3032448
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which I explained why I was proposing to 
uphold it. 
In my provisional decision I explained that I was satisfied that there was a fault with the 
wheel bearing and the tyres when the car was supplied. I found that Mr W would be been 
aware of the condition of the tyres when he took possession of the car and therefore 
accepted it in that condition. I found that the faulty wheel bearing wasnt something Mr W 
wouldve been aware of and that Startline should meet the costs of the repairs. I noted that 
Startline had made an offer to Mr W to reimburse repair costs which included a sum for the 
repairs to the wheel bearing, which I said was fair. 
In relation to the missing log book, I said that it was the responsibility of the business to 
provide this and that the evidence showed that Startline had told Mr W that it would sort this 
out for him. I found that there had been an unreasonable delay of 7 months before Mr W was 
provided with a logbook and that because he was unable to drive the car during this time 
(due to being unable to tax or insure it) he should be refunded 7 monthly payments.
Mr W said he accepted my provisional decision. Startline disagreed with it and made a 
number of points which can be summarised as follows:
The tyres were deemed legal at the point of supply and the dealership provided Mr W with 
£100 towards the cost of replacing them. Mr W accepted the tyres in the condition they were 
in.
It didnt dispute that the wheel bearing failed. It said that Mr W had changed the wheel 
bearing but had then put the old one back on again and asked to reject the car.
The logbook was delayed due a backlog at DVLA. It said a vehicle could be taxed and 
insured in the absence of a logbook, but that because Mr W hadnt insured the car it couldnt 
be taxed. It said it had explained to Mr W that he could order a replacement logbook by 
going online and that it had offered to reimburse him the costs of doing so.
It said it had provided forbearance to Mr W for his May 2020 and June 2020 instalments ad 
that these payments should not be refunded.
It said the delays in receiving the logbook were perpetuated by Mr W.
The case has now been returned to me to review once more.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Startlines arguments carefully. Having done so, my view hasnt changed. 
I remain of the view that the tyres were in poor condition at the point of supply, that the 
wheel bearing was faulty at the point of supply and that Startline should meet the repair 
costs of both items. I also remain of the view that there was unreasonable delay in providing 
the logbook to Mr W. Im not persuaded that Mr W could have taxed and insured a car 
without the logbook, so I dont think its unreasonable that he didnt use the car for 7 months.
Overall Im not convinced by Startlines further arguments that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Nor do I think that Mr W was responsible for obtaining his own 
logbook. It follows that Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, 
that Mr W should be reimbursed for the cost of repirs and refunded for the months when he 
was unable to use the car due to not having the logbook.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Reimburse Mr Ws repair costs of £450
Refund 7 monthly payments  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must take 
the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman