DRN-4502740
The complaint
Mr C, Mrs C, Mrs C2 and Mr P complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA have declined a 
claim Mrs C made on their travel insurance policy.
Although Mrs C is represented Ill refer to all submissions as being made by her. 
What happened
Mrs C was on holiday with her family when she was admitted to hospital with suspected 
heatstroke. She contacted IPA to claim on the policy. Many months later she received a bill 
for her treatment, via a debt collector, for around $42 000. Mrs C hadnt been told by IPA 
that her claim had been declined. She made a complaint to IPA.  
IPA acknowledged Mrs C hadnt been told for around 8 months that the claim had been 
declined despite her chasing for updates. They awarded £150 compensation for this. 
However, they said that the decision to decline the claim was fair as Mrs C hadnt disclosed 
relevant medical information during the application process. They said this entitled them to 
decline the claim, cancel the policy and refund the premiums. Unhappy, Mrs C complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Initially our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint. However, IPA didnt agree and made 
further representations. In his most recent opinion, our investigator recommended increasing 
the compensation to £300 but didnt think that IPA had acted unfairly in relation to the claim. 
He thought that Mrs C should have disclosed laser treatment on her eye and that if she had 
done so IPA wouldnt have offered her this policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA says Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered questions during the application process. She was asked: 
Within the past 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on the policy suffered 
any medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment 
including surgery or test /investigations?
Mrs C answered no to this question. 
Ive looked at the medical evidence that is available. Mrs Cs medical records indicate that 
she had a procedure in 2022 on her eye which is described as YAG laser post 
capsulotomy. This was within the relevant time frame set out in the question and so it ought 
to have been disclosed. I appreciate that the procedure may well have been preventative but 
I think the question is clear that any medical condition which has required prescribed 
medication or treatment needed to be disclosed. I think this procedure can reasonably be 
described as treatment, even if it was preventative. 
IPA has provided evidence that if Mrs C had disclosed this she wouldnt have been offered 
this policy and would have been directed to different policy options. So, Mrs C wouldnt have 
been able to select this policy if the question had been answered correctly. This means Im 
satisfied Mrs Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
IPA accepted our investigators findings that Mrs Cs misrepresentation was careless. I 
agree it was as I think its most likely this was an oversight by Mrs C, rather than a deliberate 
or reckless attempt to mislead IPA. As Im satisfied that Mrs Cs misrepresentation was 
careless Ive looked at the actions IPA can take in accordance with CIDRA. It says that 
where IPA wouldnt have offered cover they can avoid the policy and not deal with any claim. 
They should also return any unused premiums the consumer paid. IPA has agreed to do this 
and so I dont think they need to do anything further to put things right. I think what theyve 
agreed to do is therefore fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs C did experience distress and inconvenience as a result of excessive delays in handling 
the claim. Its also disappointing that the outcome of the claim review wasnt communicated 
to her which led to her receiving a very large bill from the debt collector unexpectedly. I think 
that caused her a lot of worry and she also had to chase IPA for updates. I think £300 
compensation more fairly reflects the impact of the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
Putting things right
IPA needs to put things right by: 
Refunding the premiums paid 
Paying £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by delays in 
handling the claim and not communicating the outcome to Mrs C. 
My final decision
Im partly upholding this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mrs C, Mrs 
C2 and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman