DRN-2734596
The complaint
Mr P says Headley Financial Services Limited (Headley) failed to provide him with advice 
about the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) while it was responsible for the ongoing servicing of his 
personal pensions. He says this has caused him financial detriment. 
What happened
Mr P signed a client agreement for ongoing financial advice with Headley in 2012 when he 
followed his longstanding adviser to the firm.  
Mr P had pensions with three providers. Headley set out the status and estimated value of 
his plans as at April 2014 as follows:
- Rexam defined benefit scheme (in payment prior to April 2006) £739k 
- Transact flexible drawdown (tax-free cash taken prior to April 2006) £411k
- An Aegon personal pension plan (uncrystallised) £ 46k
Mr P was 68 at the time of the events complained about. He had been in receipt of benefits 
from two pension providers prior to April 2006, when legislation was introduced with the aim 
of simplifying arrangements for pensions. So, these were known as pre A-day pensions. 
The main implication of Mr P having pre A-day pensions was that any LTA calculations were 
a little more involved than usual. The plans would be treated as only having crystallised 
immediately prior to when he took benefits from his remaining Aegon personal pension or 
when triggered by another crystallisation event, such as when he reached the age of 75. 
As part of the ongoing services to Mr P, in March 2014 Headley reviewed his situation. Its 
letter to him captures the key elements of what was discussed. This included a 
recommendation for Mr P to liquidate some investments to boost his cash reserves in 
support of his drawdown plans. 
Headley didnt provide any advice about Mr Ps position in relation to the LTA. It was due to 
reduce from £1.5m to £1.25m on 6 April 2014. And the deadline to apply for Fixed Protection 
2014 (FP14), which would enable people to retain the £1.5m allowance subject to certain 
conditions, was 5 April 2014.
In December 2015, the Government announced that it would reduce the LTA further to £1m 
on 6 April 2016. In July 2019, following a conversation with his adviser, Mr P applied for 
Fixed Protection 2016 (FP16), enabling him to retain an LTA of £1.25m. 
Mr P turned 75 in August 2019. At that point his total pension benefits were automatically 
tested against his LTA. Aegon wrote to him to say these exceeded his allowance by around 
£62k and that this excess would incur a charge of just over £15k (25%).
Mr P was unhappy about what had happened. He told us that Headley had never spoken to 
him about the LTA regime until 2019. As a result, he says hes paid more tax on his Aegon 
personal pension than he shouldve.
Headleys final response to Mr P summarised its position in the following terms:
Having considered all the factors, my conclusion is that the Lifetime Allowance and 
Protections were reasonably considered and discounted for two reasons, namely the 
intention to draw funds and the valuation of your pension assets at the time relative to the 
known allowance. The tax charge is ultimately an unfortunate result of legislative changes 
and I therefore cannot uphold your complaint.
Later, in responding to the investigator looking into Mr Ps complaint, Headley changed its 
main argument for rejecting his case. It said that on reflection the agreement it had with Mr P 
for the provision of advice services never extended to matters relating to the LTA. It said 
hed only ever signed up to bespoke investment portfolio management.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by any of Headleys arguments and he recommended 
this case should be upheld. Headley disagreed and so Mr Ps complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument about the events complained about. 
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows 
that Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around relationships like those between Mr P and 
Headley. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the relevant time. 
They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Headley. As such, I need to have 
regard to them in deciding this case.
I now turn to the agreement between Headley and Mr P at the time of the events complained 
about. Ive seen a copy of the client and fee agreement between the parties from August 
2012. Mr P had agreed to pay for ongoing advice. The service he signed up for initially cost £900 a 
year. In exchange, amongst other services advertised in the fee agreement, he had a choice 
of bespoke or model investment portfolios. He received reports, commentary and 
recommendations in relation to his investments. And an automatic annual face to face 
review, and the option of another half-yearly meeting at no extra charge.
Headley says that the pattern of advice given to Mr P prior to its engagement, and as set out 
in the agreement it had with him, was that it would only provide advice in relation to his 
investment portfolio. Im not persuaded by Headleys arguments. 
While I recognise there was a pattern in the advice provided to Mr P over the years which 
focussed on the investments in his pension plans, this isnt surprising. Mr P retired in 2001 
with a defined benefit pension and had taken TFC from his main personal pension. 
Headleys main role was oversight of his residual funds. But I think it still needed to have 
been alert to matters which impacted on his situation.
As the investigator noted - theres nothing in the earlier review letters to suggest no advice 
would be provided on the investment wrapper or on tax matters relating to it. Indeed, in one 
of these reviews, theres reference to a recommendation for Mr P to establish an Individual 
Savings Account (ISA). 
I think the following extracts from the 2012 client agreement are important (bolding is my 
emphasis):
As an Independent Financial Adviser we will consider all areas of your finances 
(unless directed otherwise) and have the ability to deal in all products and with all 
providers across the whole market place. This means we can be totally impartial and act on 
your behalf in advising you on, and arranging transactions in regulated and unregulated 
collective investments, life assurance, noninvestment insurance contracts, mortgages, 
pensions, pension transfers and opt out business.
Under normal circumstances we will assume that you do not wish to place any 
restrictions on the advice we give you. Where a request for advice to be restricted is 
received from you we will confirm our understanding of that restriction to you in 
writing within our suitability report.
I cant see in the client agreement, in the suitability report from 2014 or elsewhere on file that 
Mr P directed that the advice he received should be restricted, nor any confirmation from 
Headley that this would be the case.
Further the client agreement from 2012 also said the following:
Following the issue of this document, any subsequent advice or recommendation 
offered to you will be based on your stated investment objectives, an agreed 
acceptable level of risk and any instructions you may wish to makeDetails of your stated 
investment objectives will be included in the suitability report we will issue confirming 
our recommendations. 
In March 2014 Headley recorded Mr Ps financial objective as follows:
I think it is fair to say that your financial objective is to enjoy your retirement at your selected 
standard of living and the money we look after should support that.So, in the terms of the client agreement, the advice it provided shouldve been based on Mr 
Ps objective. That had to mean looking beyond the narrow management of his investments, 
indeed beyond the pension vehicles it was overseeing for him, to understand his retirement 
provisions in the round and what could impact on these. It couldnt effectively deliver on his 
objective without doing so.
Headley says there was a separate charge for support with unsecured pensions/phased 
retirement matters  which Mr P hadnt opted for. This is a reasonable point to make. But its 
not clear to me what the scope of such support was. What was intended to be included or 
excluded under this banner, for example his pension with Aegon doesnt fit the description. 
And Mr P wasnt in a phased retirement  hed retired in 2001.
What is clear from Headleys March 2014 review and recommendations to Mr P, was that it 
sought to update the information about his overall financial situation and understand how this 
impacted its advice. For example, Headley noted Mr P intended to draw £35k gross from his 
pension funds for the following two to three years. Its also recorded that he expected to use 
his tax-free cash (TFC) from his Aegon pension to buy a new car and add the residual 
amount to his drawdown arrangement (Ill return to this matter later). 
Given the imminent changes to the LTA regime that Headley wouldve been aware of, its 
surprising that theres not even a passing consideration of how the value of Mr Ps pension 
provision couldve been affected. 
Mr Ps investments were held in pension wrappers, which enjoyed special tax treatment and 
were subject to specific rules and regulations. In understanding his financial objectives and 
income requirements for future years, Im not satisfied Headley can reasonably separate out 
the narrow matter of investment management, from the wider responsibility it had to him for 
his pensions. They were part and parcel of the same consideration. 
I think the investigator summarised this matter well when he said:
I dont believe it would be fair, reasonable, or even within the rules to advise on a pension 
without advising on that taxation regime. Given that the purpose of a pension is, in large 
part, income tax deferral, it doesnt seem reasonable to suggest that the lifetime allowance 
falls outside the scope of advice on pensions. You could as easily suggest that the annual 
allowance or tax relief fall outside that scope, which would be similarly hard to justify in my 
view.
Its of note Headley did become involved in advising Mr P about the LTA regime in July 
2019. In its final response to his complaint it commented on changes to the LTA regime 
and noted:
Fixed Protection 2016 was available to you and this was applied for by [Headley] as you 
are aware. Although Individual Protection 2016 was available, it would not have been at a 
higher level than the Fixed Protection 2016 that [we] recommended]  
The trigger had been Mr Ps receipt of a form from Aegon in the run up to his 75th birthday. 
Mr P wasnt charged a separate fee for its recommendation. I appreciate that the client 
agreement with him had been renewed at least once since 2012 and it might be argued this 
broadened the scope of the advice to be provided  but Ive set out my conclusions about 
what should reasonably have been included from 2012 already.
Headley told us about information it had sent to clients about changes to the LTA regime 
on 12 March 2014. This stated that the lifetime allowance would be reduced from £1.5m to 
£1.25m from 5 April 2014 and said:Although these figures sound huge, if you have been accruing benefits in a company 
pension scheme for many years, you may be above the new limit. If you have a pension 
that is already being paid to you, and have built up a second personal pension alongside, 
again its worth seeing how close you are to the limit as it may make sense to take the 
second pension now or apply for protection, so that you can retain the higher limit.
This was relevant to Mr P and Headley has argued it was a reasonable assumption he 
wouldve been aware that the circumstances highlighted couldve applied to him and at the 
very least this meant he should be partly culpable for not taking up the offer of advice.
I understand the point Headley is making here. But Im mindful the information was issued 
just two days prior to the review meeting it had with Mr P. And by its own admission it 
hadnt discussed the LTA regime with him previously. I dont think he wouldve understood 
the significance of the issue for him, nor how his benefits would be tested against the 
allowance. Instead I think he could reasonably have expected his adviser to have covered 
these matters as part of the review had they been significant to him  as they were. 
Headley made different arguments early on in rejecting Mr Ps complaint. As we know, it 
later mounted a different defence, focussed on what it was and wasnt responsible for under 
the client agreement. Nevertheless, for the avoidance of doubt, Ill also deal briefly with its 
earlier points, firstly around Mr Ps recorded intention in 2014 to take benefits from his 
Aegon plan.
The record of the review Headley had with Mr P does show hed indicated that he thought he 
would use his Aegon plan to buy a car and move any residual funds into his draw-down 
arrangement. I understand the point it makes here. Had he gone on to do what was 
discussed soon afterwards, it seems he wouldve had a little headroom with the LTA at its 
2014 value of £1.25m.
But Mr P has said the discussion about taking the benefits from the Aegon plan was an 
aside in the meeting and that his intentions werent fixed. Theres no indication of the timing 
of when he intended to crystallise the funds. And theres no advice from Headley about how 
soon he would need to do this to stay within and/or maximise his use of the 2014 LTA 
ceiling.
Mr P was considering decisions about his pension funds without being given the advice he 
needed. Indeed, its not clear to me why there was any debate about whether or not to apply 
for FP14, which wouldve fixed his LTA at £1.5m. I say this because Mr P was long retired 
and hadnt made contributions to his pension plans since 2001. I cant see a downside in 
making the application, only the upsides of an increased allowance and flexibility.
Headley said that in March 2014 the valuation of his pension assets at the time relative to 
the known LTA gave Mr P plenty of headroom. It says that working out the LTA provisions 
for Mr P was particularly complicated because of his pre A-Day pensions and changes to 
these along the way. 
I note that Mr P exceeded his FP16 limit by around the same value of his Aegon pension. 
This suggests to me that far from having lots of headroom in the LTA as at April 2014, there 
was a good chance he would exceed it. This was particularly the case the longer it was 
before he crystallised his Aegon pension. Not only because of investment growth in relation 
to that plan, but also because of the effect of the annual uprating of his defined benefits 
pension, which had a significant impact on the calculations.I agree with Headley that the LTA calculations in Mr Ps circumstances were complicated. 
But I dont think it wouldve taken detailed analysis to have arrived at the conclusion the 
longer he went without taking benefits from his fund the more likely he would break the 
2014 LTA. And its not a major leap from that point to recommend FP14 be applied for, or at 
least that he was made aware of the decision he needed to make. I cant see Headley ever 
got to grips with the LTA regime for Mr P.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and I require Headley Financial Services Limited to put 
things right in the following way.
Aegon confirmed on 16 August 2019 that Mr P had exceeded his FP16 LTA by £61,724. It 
deducted a 25% charge from that excess at his 75th birthday on the assumption the 
remaining funds would be taken in the form of taxable income. 
Had Mr P secured FP14 hed have benefitted from a protected LTA of £1.5m and so he 
wouldve been able to take 25% of the excess funds tax-free, with the remainder being 
subject to income tax.
The net effect to Mr P is he has lost his tax-free cash. That being the case, I require Headley 
Financial Services Limited to pay him £15,431.
To this it should add 8% simple interest from his 75th birthday to the date of settlement. Our 
understanding is that this interest is taxable. If Headley pays it net it should provide a tax 
deduction certificate so that Mr P can reclaim any overpaid tax.
In recognition of the things it got wrong, I also require Headley to pay Mr P £200 for the 
trouble and upset it has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint and require Headley Financial 
Services Limited to pay him the redress detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman