DRN-2276228
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) refused to write off his credit card 
debt.
What happened
Mr A has a credit card with Tesco and after a period of being out of work because of health 
issues approached them and another credit card provider to request they write off his debt. 
While the other credit card provider agreed to write off his debt, Tesco, after reviewing his 
income and expenditure and a medical report, declined this request and gave a six month 
hold on the account. 
Mr A says he has been suffering from extreme anxiety for many years and this coupled with 
a separate medical condition is unable to work for the foreseeable future and feels Tesco 
should agree to his request to write off his outstanding debt. 
Tesco says they have considered Mr As request but believe there are other options 
available to him other than writing off the debt and they are aware Mr A does have equity in 
his home. Tesco says they have been fair in offering a six-month interest free hold on the 
credit card account which is above what they would normally agree to.  
Mr A was unhappy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
says Tesco have acted reasonably and the medical reports dont suggest he cant ever work 
in the future. The investigator while sympathetic to Mr As situation, supported Tescos view 
that other options could be available to Mr A and they had been reasonable in providing a 
six-month period to review the credit card account. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
investigator for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Tescos have treated Mr A fairly when 
they decided not to accept his request to write off the balance outstanding on his credit card 
with them.
I can see that the past four years have been a difficult time for Mr A both financially and 
personally given his long-standing health issues, which sadly contributed to his marriage 
breakdown. 
Mr A says that he was living off his credit cards as he was unable to work or claim benefits at 
the time because of his extreme anxiety and a separate diagnosed physical medical 
problem. I can see that this would have been a difficult time for Mr A. 
What happened here is Mr A approached his two credit card providers, including Tesco, and 
after getting a detailed understanding of his financial position and medical condition, one of 
the card providers agreed to write off his debt. Tesco however took a different view and felt 
that there were other options open to Mr A and the medical reports didnt state that he 
wouldnt be able to work in the future. In view of this Tesco agreed to give Mr A a six-month 
interest free hold on his credit card which is shortly due for review. 
Mr A says he feels that Tesco should write off his debt as the other credit card provider have 
accepted his position. I have considered this but Tesco, or any other bank, are free to decide 
what conditions should be met before they agree to write off any outstanding borrowing, so I 
cant say that because one bank have agreed to this another should follow. 
What is important here is whether Tesco have been reasonable when considering Mr As 
position and treated him fairly when doing so. Tesco have agreed a six-month interest free 
period to assist Mr A which is what I would expect to see in the circumstances here. 
Tesco having read the medical report on Mr A but didnt feel it says he couldnt work in the 
future. I have read the report which does say his condition is unlikely to improve significantly 
in the next six months, but I am satisfied that it doesnt comment on his ability to work in the 
foreseeable future. Even so, thats not to say this in itself would be a reason for Tesco to 
have to agree to writing off the outstanding balance of Mr As credit card if they feel that this 
could be dealt with in another way going forward.
Its worth saying Tesco have been made aware of the fact that Mr A has assets by way of a 
property subject to a family mortgage and this does have a reasonable amount of equity. 
Tesco says this isnt the main reason for their decision here but more of a case of them 
being able to recoup funds from Mr A when he does eventually return to work. 
While Mr A may not agree with Tescos reasons for not writing off the debt, its not my role to 
tell Tesco what they must do in these circumstances other than to ensure they treat its 
customers fairly when doing so  I am satisfied Tesco have done this here. 
I would encourage Mr A to remain in dialogue with Tesco to discuss a workable arrangement 
with them going forwards.
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman