DRN-4155285
The complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy.
Skyfire is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Skyfire has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Skyfire includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire.  In January 2023, he 
received an email saying the policy had been cancelled. When Mr M phoned Skyfire to ask 
what had happened, he was told it had sent an email asking for his driving license in 
December and had cancelled the policy because it didnt receive it. 
Mr M says he didnt receive the request by email or by post. He was also concerned that he 
had only been refunded £1,200 and didnt understand why hed been charged £1,100 for 
only three months cover.
Skyfire said it had sent Mr M an email and text message asking for some documents in 
November 2022 because it had completed some routine checks and noticed some of his 
policy may have needed amending.  It said it had sent Mr M another email and text message 
a week later, explaining that it might need to amend or cancel the policy if the documents 
werent provided. As it hadnt heard from Mr M by the due date, Skyfire amended the policy 
using the information it had, resulting in an additional premium of £1,423. 
Skyfire said it wrote to Mr M on two occasions explaining that the balance was outstanding 
and needed to be paid by 1 January 2023. As no payment was made, the policy was 
cancelled with effect from 1 January 2023, which entitled him to a refund of £1,293.
Skyfire said that whilst investigating Mr Ms complaint, it realised he was entitled to a further 
£54.91 and it also decided to reimburse him the cancellation fee of £50. It said it would pay 
him £104.91 back to his card.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part because Skyfire had incorrectly 
calculated the refund. He recommended that Skyfire pay the amount it owed Mr M with 
interest calculated at 8% simple per year. However, the investigator didnt think Skyfires 
decision to cancel the policy was unfair.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators outcome. He still thought his insurance had been 
wrongfully cancelled. He said he had no emails from Skyfires agent on his email account 
and it hadnt sent letters through the door as hed wanted. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The policy terms say Skyfire can authorise (the intermediary) to cancel your policy by 
sending you seven days written notice to the last postal or e-mail address we have for you 
on our system 
They go on to list examples of when this could happen, including:
if you fail to respond to reasonable requests for information by your insurer or us or an 
agent acting on behalf of the insurer and
if you fail to pay the premium
Skyfire has sent us copies of the emails and a screenshot to show the dates they were 
issued. In early November, it sent an email entitled are your policy details correct? which 
asked Mr M to provide a copy of his driving license with a code from the DVLA website so it 
could be checked.
Skyfire sent an email chasing for this information a week later, which said that it may need to 
amend or cancel the policy if Mr M was unable to provide the document by a two week 
deadline.
In mid-December, Skyfire sent Mr M two emails. One was informing him that it had amended 
his policy, his premium had been recalculated and there was an additional amount of £1,423 
outstanding. The other email entitled notice of outstanding payment asked him to pay the 
outstanding amount within 7 days and said to call if he was struggling to make payment. 
Around a week later, Mr M was sent another email entitled Outstanding payment  Default 
notice which said he needed to pay the £1,423 by 1 January 2023. It said that if Mr M didnt 
make the payment or call Skyfire within 14 days of the email, it wouldnt be able to continue 
with his car insurance cover. 
A week later, Skyfire sent another email which was entitled Reminder  Outstanding 
amount: your policy is at risk, which informed Mr M that his policy was at risk of 
cancellation. 
Mr M says he didnt receive any of these emails. However, hes acknowledged receiving 
email notification that the policy had been cancelled in January 2023. I can see that Skyfire 
sent Mr M a welcome email with his policy documents on 8 October 2022. It looks like that 
email was opened. 
From Skyfires screenshot, it looks like Mr M didnt open the emails he says he didnt 
receive. However, the email address on the documentation from when Mr M took out the 
policy is the same as the one he has used to communicate with our service. So, on balance, 
I think Skyfire is likely to have sent the emails to the right address. And I dont think the titles 
of the emails would have given Mr M reason to mistake them for marketing emails. 
Skyfires records also show that Mr M was sent SMS messages on 3 and 10 November as 
well as 12 December 2022 to let him know it had sent him emails. The phone number 
showing on Mr Ms policy documents is the same as the one he provided our service. Mr M says he asked for Skyfire to correspond with him by post. However, the policy terms 
say:
Electronic documents
Your policy documents and Certificate of Motor Insurance are available online, and only in 
limited circumstances will you be written to by post. Because of this, you must provide a 
valid email address.
I appreciate Mr M may not have seen the emails Skyfire sent him. However, I think they are 
likely to have been sent. Given what it says in the policy terms, Im satisfied Skyfire sent    
Mr M notice of cancellation using the appropriate means of communication, in accordance 
with its procedures. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Skyfire to have cancelled the 
policy when it didnt receive payment or contact from Mr M. 
However, Skyfire has acknowledged that it made an error when calculating the refund owing 
to Mr M and has agreed that a further £318.61 is due to him. So, I think it would be fair for it 
to pay this refund to Mr M with 8% simple interest per year to compensate him for the time 
hes been deprived of the money. 
Putting things right
Skyfire should:
Refund Mr M £318.61 plus 8% simple interest per year* from the date the policy was 
cancelled until the date the refund is paid. 
*If Skyfire considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman