DRN-3032908
The complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt do enough to notify him 
about missed payments to his credit card account
What happened
Mr M has an RBS credit card. He says his direct debit was cancelled without his knowledge 
meaning he didnt know monthly payments were being missed. He says if RBS had 
adequately notified him, he would have remedied the matter - as he subsequently did. Mr M 
complained to RBS, asking it to remove adverse information related to the missed payments 
from his credit file.
RBS responded to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr Ms direct debit 
was cancelled as it was applied for but returned unpaid twice. It said it had sent Mr M letters, 
statements, an email and a text to alert him to his accounts position. It said it wouldnt 
amend his credit file but noted it had refunded some interest and an over limit fee as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so he asked our service for an independent review. He said he 
didnt receive any notification from RBS about his cancelled direct debit and said if he had, 
he could have acted. He further said given the unprecedented times brought about by the 
pandemic, he may not have been as alert and attentive as he ordinarily would have been.
The investigator wasnt persuaded RBS had done anything wrong. In her view it was 
Mr Ms responsibility to ensure he made payments to the account and from the evidence 
shed seen, she thought RBS had done enough to notify him of the situation. As RBS had 
reported a true and accurate reflection of Mr Ms account history, she didnt think she could 
fairly recommend it amend his credit file. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He reiterated he didnt receive any notification 
from RBS about his cancelled direct debit and didnt accept RBS records adequately proved 
he had been contacted. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To maintain the credit card account Mr M must make at least a minimum payment by the 
due date each month. Missed payment are reported to credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
and result in arrears on the account. 
Mr M had a direct debit set up to make his minimum payments. His statements show in 
January 2020 he exceeded his credit limit and his direct debit was returned unpaid. In 
February 2020 Mr M brought the account up-to-date but his direct debit was returned unpaid 
in March and April 2020. RBS cancelled the direct debit. I find it was fair and reasonable for 
RBS to cancel the direct debit following two unsuccessful attempts over two consecutive 
months.
Mr M didnt make a payment in May 2020. In June 2020 he made a payment, but it wasnt 
enough to clear the arrears on the account or bring him within his credit limit. Mr M didnt 
make a payment in July 2020. He did make a payment in August 2020. That payment, 
combined with a refund of some interest and a fee by RBS, cleared the arrears and brought 
Mr M within his credit limit. From then onwards Mr M made his minimum payments by direct 
debit each month.
Mr M argues payments were missed and his credit file impacted because RBS didnt 
adequately notify him of a problem. I have reviewed RBS records. They show several letters 
were sent to Mr M. Ill include a summary of a key one from each month.
- 24 March 2020. RBS sent a letter to Mr M saying it was unable to collect his payment 
by direct debit and to make the payment straight away.
- 21 April 2020. RBS sent a letter to Mr M saying his direct debit had been returned 
unpaid, his direct debit had therefore been cancelled and he needed to make 
alternative payment arrangements.
- 23 May 2020. RBS sent Mr M a Default Sum Notice.
- 16 June 2020. RBS sent Mr M a letter titled Things are at a serious stage, but we 
can help. It said Mr M was behind with his payments and over his credit limit.
- 23 July 2020. RBS sent Mr M a Default Sum Notice.
RBS records also show a text was delivered to Mr M on 24 March 2020 and an email sent to 
him on 22 April 2020.
Mr M says he had no contact from RBS and isnt persuaded these letters, the text or the 
email were sent to him. But I think they most likely were. I say this because its an automated 
process, RBSs records show they were produced, and I can match the letter codes with the 
corresponding templates - the contents of which match up with what was happening on the 
account. Mr M may say he didnt receive them, but the address RBS held for him is the 
same address hes given our service. And RBS could only use the phone number and email 
address it had on file  which it seems from RBS later records were likely out of date.
In any case, even if I werent persuaded RBS sent Mr M the letters Ive referred to above, 
and others I havent referred to, it was Mr Ms responsibility to monitor his account and make 
the required payments. RBS produced monthly statements, which he had set up to view 
online, and Mr M had access to internet banking, which he appears to have been logged into 
regularly during the period in dispute here. 
Further to this, it would appear Mr M either knew, or ought reasonably to have known, 
something was amiss. His direct debit was returned unpaid in January 2020 and he knew to 
do something about it. Based on this previous experience, I dont see why March or April 
2020 would be different. His direct debits were returned unpaid due to insufficient funds. Mr 
M would most likely have been aware of his current account balance and therefore realised 
there would be an issue with bill payments. And Mr M made a manual payment in June 2020 
(not long after the Things are at a serious stage letter), which suggests he knew he was 
behind on his payments and/or over his credit limit, but he didnt address this fully until 
August 2020. 
Overall, Im not persuaded RBS has done anything wrong. Nor do I consider the 
circumstances here mean I can fairly conclude Mr Ms account history should be amended 
with the CRAs.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman