DRN-1110161
 
The complaint
Miss K complains Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly recorded a late payment on her credit 
file which has meant she's been declined credit elsewhere. 
What happened
In 2017, Miss K made a late payment towards her Barclays credit card. The following month 
she made the payment on time, but Barclays incorrectly registered a second late payment. 
Miss K complained to Barclays about this in 2019. 
Barclays agreed it had made a mistake and offered Miss K £150 compensation. Miss K 
didn't accept this and asked our service to look at her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Barclays' offer was fair.
Miss K didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So it's been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it must've been frustrating when Miss K discovered that a late payment marker 
had been applied to her credit file incorrectly in 2017. But it doesn't seem that she was 
aware this had happened until 2019. When she raised this with Barclays, it corrected her file 
within a reasonable time frame, as I'd expect it to. Based on this, whilst this has clearly upset 
Miss K, it hasn't been over a prolonged period.
Miss K says she was declined other credit because of Barclays mistake. But I've seen this 
wasn't the only payment she'd missed or made late, and she'd gone over her credit limit at 
times. Because of this, I can't safely say Barclays' mistake was the reason she was declined 
credit.
Miss K has asked for £1,000 per year compensation for Barclays' mistake. But she hasn't 
explained why she feels this figure is warranted. Barclays has offered £150 compensation 
for the mistake it has made. Based on the impact I think this has had, along with the short 
time from Miss K being aware of the mistake to it being corrected, I think Barclays' offer is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And it's in line with an award I would make had it 
not made an offer. Because of this, I'm not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Miss K's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.Rob Deadman
Ombudsman