DRN-3951267
The complaint
Miss H complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), declining a claim under her home insurance 
policy for damage to a greenhouse at her property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, a wood-framed greenhouse at Miss Hs 
property suffered significant damage, leaving it beyond repair. She contacted QIC to tell 
them about the damage and lodge a claim, which she did through an online portal. QIC 
indicated they accepted the claim and asked Miss H to send in photographs of the 
greenhouse prior to the incident.
QIC arranged for a surveyor (M) to visit the property and assess the damage, which they did 
the following month. Miss H thought M didnt give any indication her claim wouldnt be 
accepted (and Ms report recorded the claim as being accepted and covered for the damage 
under the policy). Following the visit, QIC asked Miss H to obtain two quotes to replace the 
greenhouse, which she submitted to QIC. 
However, QIC then contacted Miss H to say that, following review of the claim by their in-
house surveyor (including the photographs provided by Miss H) they thought the greenhouse 
was leaning prior to the incident and a gutter looked like it was falling off. Based on this, QIC 
declined the claim. 
Miss H challenged the decision and complained to QIC. But they didnt uphold it, confirming 
their decision to decline the claim in their final response. They said there were storm 
conditions at the time of the incident (based on a highest wind speed recorded of 77 mph), 
They also acknowledged theyd initially accepted the claim, but following a review by their in-
house surveyor, declined the claim on the basis of the pre-existing condition of the 
greenhouse (it was leaning and guttering at the side was falling off) and overall it was in a 
poor condition. This indicated wear and tear over a significant period, which had been 
highlighted by the storm. QIC referred to a policy exclusion for gradual deterioration. 
Miss H then complained to this service. She said the experience had caused her a great 
deal of stress and frustration. She no longer had a greenhouse and had to pay for the cost of 
clearing the debris and its disposal. She wanted QIC to re-consider her claim and accept it. 
She was also unhappy at what she considered to be QICs unprofessional and abrupt way 
they handled her claim and communicated their decline of the claim.
Our investigator upheld some parts of the complaint, but not others. She concluded QIC had 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions but hadnt addressed mistakes in their 
response to Miss Hs complaint. She thought the surveyors report indicated the greenhouse 
was in a poor condition prior to the incident, so it was reasonable for QIC to decline the claim 
on the grounds of the exclusion for gradual deterioration and wear and tear. However, QICs 
final response hadnt acknowledged Miss Hs claim had initially been accepted, nor the 
confusion this caused Miss H, given the subsequent decline of the claim. In recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience this would have caused to Miss H, the investigator thought 
QIC should pay £75 in compensation.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, she provided further evidence about the condition of the 
greenhouse prior to the incident, including a better-quality photograph (taken in summer 
2021). She reiterated that shed followed the claims process with QIC, including providing 
quotes for a replacement greenhouse, as well as her view QIC had mis-managed her claim 
and acted unprofessionally. If they were going to decline the claim, they should have done 
so at the outset (when Miss H provided the initial photographs, which were then 
subsequently used by the in-house surveyor as evidence to support the declining of the 
claim).
In my findings, I noted Ms report made no mention of the condition of the greenhouse other 
than that provided by Miss H (that the timber work was all in good condition). Also, the report 
stated there were no pre-existing or ongoing external building defects or issues that are not 
peril related. 
I also looked at the photographs provided by Miss H. I wasnt persuaded the greenhouse 
was leaning, rather it appeared to be the angle from which the photograph was taken. There 
was no indication the greenhouse wasnt secured to the base, nor did it appear the guttering 
at the side of the greenhouse was falling off. It was also not obvious there were two missing 
panes  but in any event I wasnt persuaded this would have affected the greenhouses 
ability to withstand the impact of the storm conditions.
I also considered the severity of the storm conditions on the date of the incident. QICs 
weather report indicated a maximum wind speed (gust) of 77 mph and described the wind as 
violent storm force gusts. The wind speed was significantly higher than QICs policy 
definition of storm force winds (55 mph). I also noted (using the wind speed of 78 mph from 
the weather report from the weather firm our service uses) it would (on the Beaufort Scale) 
be classified as Hurricane level under World Meteorological Organisation classifications. At 
this level, I thought it likely that a greenhouse (particularly given the exposed location of Miss 
Hs property) would have suffered significant damage.
Taking all these conclusions into account, I wasnt persuaded QIC had shown the exclusion 
for gradual deterioration and wear and tear applied. And so, they havent acted fairly in 
declining Miss Hs claim.
Having reached this conclusion, I thought about what QIC should do to put things right. I 
thought they should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate.
I also considered the question of compensation for distress and inconvenience. Taking all 
the circumstances into account, I think £75 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. I also considered Miss Hs additional points in response to our 
investigators view. While I concluded Miss H did suffer a loss of expectation from having her 
claim initially accepted, only to be then declined, I thought there were circumstances in 
which insurers would review a claim and change their initial decision. Miss H also referred to 
an abrupt call telling her of QICs change of decision (to decline the claim). I thought the 
compensation of £75 was fair for the issues raised by Miss H. 
Because I reached a different conclusion from that of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss H.
The main element of Miss Hs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined her claim, on the 
grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent the 
main cause of the damage. Rather, QIC say it was due to pre-existing issues with the 
condition of the greenhouse. Specifically, it was leaning, and part of the side guttering 
appeared to be falling off (and two panes of glass were missing). So, the high winds only 
highlighted an existing issue. Miss H doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the 
storm. 
In considering the first element, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-
existing issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Miss Hs property at the time of the incident, referring to weather reports they obtained 
indicating a highest wind speed of 77 mph (with a description of violent storm force gusts 
around 10:00). The reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate storm 
conditions at the time of the incident, recording a peak gust of 78 mph at the weather station 
nearest to Miss Hs property (and a description of dry storm). So, Ive concluded there were 
storm conditions present around the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs of the damage and the descriptions provided by 
Miss H and in Ms report indicate the greenhouse was badly damaged in the storm (beyond 
repair). Given the nature of construction of a greenhouse, as well as the indication from Ms 
report that Miss Hs property is situated on high ground (which would suggest it is more 
exposed to high winds) the damage described is what wed expect, particularly with high 
winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore the key issue, where Miss H and QIC disagree. Ive 
considered both views carefully, together with the reports from M and the views of QICs in-
house surveyor. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly 
in declining Miss Hs claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Wear and tear
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: We 
dont coverd. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their in-house surveyors review of the claim (including Ms report and 
photographs of the greenhouse), which states:
We have declined the claim for the greenhouse due to its pre-existing condition 
based on the images provided by the policyholder prior to the event occurring. In one 
image the greenhouse can be seen to be leaning. Another shows the guttering at the 
side falling off.
The in-house surveyor also notes: 
there are two panes not in place, and overall, it is in poor condition. This means 
the winds have merely highlighted the poor condition of the greenhouse.
However, Ms report makes no mention of the condition of the greenhouse other than that 
provided by Miss H (that the timber work was all in good condition). The report also states 
there are no pre-existing or ongoing external building defects or issues that are not peril 
related and states yes to the question Cover under policy?. 
Ive also looked at the photographs provided by Miss H, both those she gave to QIC as part 
of her claim, as well as the (better quality) photographs provided in support of her 
disagreement with our investigators view. QICs in-house surveyor says they show the 
greenhouse was leaning and that guttering on one side is falling off. Looking at the 
photographs, Im not persuaded the greenhouse is leaning, rather it appears to be the angle 
from which the photograph was taken. Theres no indication the greenhouse wasnt secured 
to the base (which is of stone block construction). Nor does it appear the guttering at the 
side of the greenhouse is falling off  the photographs Ive seen show the guttering to be 
parallel to the top edge of the greenhouse frame. Its also not obvious there are two missing 
panes  but in any event Im not persuaded that this is likely to have affected the 
greenhouses ability to withstand the impact of the storm conditions.
So, overall, Im not persuaded by QICs view the greenhouse was in poor condition prior to 
the incident. 
Ive also considered the severity of the storm conditions on the date of the incident. As noted 
above, QICs weather report indicates a maximum wind speed (gust) of 77 mph and 
describes the wind as violent storm force gusts. The wind speed is significantly higher 
than QICs own policy definition of storm force winds (55 mph). Ive also noted (using the 
wind speed of 78 mph from the weather report from the weather firm our service uses) it 
would (on the Beaufort Scale) be classified as Hurricane level under World Meteorological 
Organisation classifications. At this level, I think its likely that a greenhouse (particularly 
given the exposed location of Miss Hs property) would have suffered significant damage of 
the extent described by Miss H and in Ms report.
Taking all these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have shown the 
exclusion for gradual deterioration and wear and tear applies. And so, they havent acted 
fairly in declining Miss Hs claim.Having reached this conclusion, Ive thought about what I think QIC need to do to put things 
right. As I dont think QIC can rely on the policy exclusion to decline the claim, I think they 
should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any excess under the policy, as appropriate.
Ive also considered the question of compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive 
considered what Miss H has said about the stress shes suffered from her experience, 
including being told initially her claim was accepted  only for it subsequently to be declined. 
I think this would have meant she suffered a loss of expectation (that her claim had been 
accepted). And that its subsequent decline (which Ive concluded was unfair) would cause 
her distress and inconvenience. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £75 is fair 
and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ive also considered Miss Hs additional points made in response to our investigators view.
 
Miss Hs view is that QIC mis-managed her claim and acted unprofessionally. As Ive 
concluded above, I think Miss H did suffer a loss of expectation from having her claim initially 
accepted, only to be then declined. I understand why she feels QIC acted unprofessionally 
(and that if they were going to decline the claim, they should have done so at the outset). But 
there are circumstances in which insurers will review a claim and change their initial 
decision. Miss H also referred to an abrupt call telling her of QICs change of decision (to 
decline the claim). I think the compensation Ive mentioned is fair for the issues raised by 
Miss H and the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Miss Hs complaint. I 
intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any excess under the policy, as appropriate).
Pay Miss H £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Miss H nor QIC responded to the provisional decision by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Miss H.
As neither Miss H nor QIC responded to my provisional decision, then my findings and 
conclusions remain unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Hs complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any excess under the policy, as appropriate).
Pay Miss H £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience.QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Miss H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman