DRN-1733404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out PPI alongside a mortgage in 1997. This protected their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event that Mr A couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion. They are very clear that they didnt know they had PPI on their mortgage account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Usually Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs A to show how they 
agreed to take out PPI. But I dont think thats surprising  and it isnt a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint. I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs A to have kept this paperwork 
for so long  particularly as this mortgage account closed around 18 years ago. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs A might be able to remember 
about the sale after such a long time. 
So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs A werent given a 
fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think, on a balance of 
probabilities, seems to me to be most likely. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs As home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. So, I can see why they 
mightve felt PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs A mightve forgotten some of the details from 
the sale. On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs A decided they wanted to protect their 
home by taking out the PPI offered and they decided to buy the policy to cover Mr A. 
Even though it wasnt clear how the PPI was sold, Halifax looked at this complaint on the 
basis that it mightve recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs A. Although Mr and Mrs A dont 
remember Halifax ever personally recommending PPI to them, looking at their complaint on 
the basis that Halifax advised them to take out PPI with their mortgage gives their complaint 
the best chance of succeeding. Thats because a lender making a recommendation about 
PPI has extra obligations to meet. As well as giving clear information about the policy, 
Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI recommendation was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs A. 
It looks like Mrs A was also working when they took out this mortgage but I havent seen 
anything to suggest it was inappropriate that the cover was just in Mr As name. As Halifax 
recorded him as being the main earner, I can see why Mr and Mrs A wouldve wanted to 
protect his income. 
Mr A was eligible for the PPI policy. He told us that he couldve relied on getting 6 months 
full sick pay and discretionary sick pay after that if he was still off work sick. 
So I think Mr and Mrs A mightve found it difficult to keep up the mortgage monthly 
repayments without PPI for long after the first 6 months or so if only Mrs A was still earning 
at that point. The policy couldve paid out in full for the whole 12 months  and on top of Mr 
As work benefits, giving Mr and Mrs A a valuable benefit at a difficult time. Especially if they 
mightve had extra costs to meet if Mr A was sick or disabled. 
Ive taken into account that there was a possibility of discretionary sick pay being paid over 
and above this. But Im looking at Mr As contractual entitlement  because thats all he 
could safely rely on when he took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when 
it doesn't have to isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit 
in the event of a successful claim.
And, as well as this, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr A lost 
his job unexpectedly and was unemployed. And the policy allowed Mr and Mrs A to make 
repeated claims. So PPI offered long term protection for their mortgage.
Death in service benefits provide a different sort of financial assistance and wouldnt have 
helped Mr A if hed been off work sick or lost his job. So I think PPI offered valuable and 
worthwhile cover for Mr and Mrs A in their particular circumstances. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if this 
affected Mr A. 
And I dont know how the cost was explained, but the policy seems to have been affordable 
 Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was difficult for Mr and Mrs A. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs A still wouldve decided to buy the policy 
to protect Mr A even if theyd been better informed as it gave them useful protection in their 
particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve put them off buying it. 
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs A have lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong. This 
means theres nothing Halifax needs to do to put things right. In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs A told us, 
including what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, this doesnt affect the outcome of their complaint. Im sorry that this decision 
will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A  but I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps 
explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman