DRN-3860270
The complaint
Mrs K complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) incorrectly set up a 
savings account for her daughter, resulting in the monthly payments to that account being 
cancelled after 12 months.
What happened
Mrs K says in January 2017 she set up a savings account and sub account for her daughter 
with Halifax, in exactly the same way she had done three years earlier for her other 
daughter. Mrs K says the intention was to save £100 per month into a monthly saver account 
and on the anniversary of its opening each year, the balance and accrued interest was then 
to be transferred to the sub savings account. Mrs K says this operated correctly for the first 
12 months but the standing order then stopped, which Mrs K says shes only recently 
noticed, and this meant her daughter has lost out on a considerable amount of interest as a 
result. 
Mrs K says she didnt do anything differently than she had three years earlier with her other 
daughters account and Halifax are at fault for this. Mrs K also says Halifax didnt provide the 
level of service or support she would expect, when she visited one of its branches to request 
documentation she required regarding the complaint. 
Mrs K wants Halifax to apologise for its mistake, make good any interest her daughter has 
lost and compensate her for the trouble and upset caused. 
Halifax says it cant be held responsible for the standing order Mrs K set up with her bank, as 
it has no control over this. Halifax have also made the point it sent Mrs K annual bank 
statements for her daughters bank accounts, so she would have known the standing order 
wasnt in place after the first 12 months. Halifax after reviewing Mrs Ks complaint accepted it 
could have provided better service to Mrs K when looking into the complaint and offered to 
pay her £100 by way of apology. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
The investigator says Halifax have no control over the setting up of a standing order with her 
banking provider  thats an arrangement between them both. With that in mind the 
investigator couldnt hold Halifax responsible for the reason why the standing order to her 
daughters savings account with them, stopped when it did.  
The investigator felt Halifax could have provided a better service when she requested 
information from one of its branches and agreed the £100 in compensation it had 
subsequently offered, post its final response letter, was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mrs K to discover the arrangements she 
believed shed put in pace to fund her daughters savings account hadnt been set up as she 
expected. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax were at fault for the 
monthly standing order not being received by them after the initial 12 months. 
Mrs K has also raised an issue regarding the poor service she experienced when she asked 
Halifaxs branch staff to investigate her complaint and provide documentation to her. The 
first thing to say here is its not the role of this service to scrutinise Halifaxs complaints 
process or to tell Halifax how it should deal with complaints more widely. That said, Halifax 
says while it is unable to understand what happened at its branch at that time, as that branch 
is now closed, it has agreed to pay Mrs K £100 for any inconvenience it may have caused, 
and Im satisfied that is fair here. 
Mrs Ks complaint centres around the savings account she opened with Halifax for her 
daughter in January 2017, in exactly the same manner she did for her other daughter in 
2014, and it not being correctly set up by Halifax, resulting in the monthly payment stopping 
after the first 12 months.  
From the information I have seen Halifax set up two accounts for Mrs K s daughter in late 
January 2017, in much the same way she had done for her other daughter three years 
earlier. The way these accounts work is Mrs K sets up a monthly standing order to the 
monthly savings account and on its anniversary the balance and accrued interest is 
transferred to a sub savings account. I can see this operated as Mrs K had expected for the 
first 12 months but after January 2018 no further payments were received into the monthly 
savings account. 
Mrs K believes this is due to a mistake made by Halifax when the account was initially 
opened, as for some reason the standing order into that account stopped in January 2018 
and she gave no instructions for that to happen. Mrs K makes the point as far as she is 
aware, she completed exactly the same documentation as she had three years previously 
and her other daughters savings account worked perfectly well, so its not of her doing. 
While I understand the points Mrs K makes here Im not fully persuaded by her argument the 
mistake lies with Halifax here. I say this because the payments into her daughters savings 
account were set up by a monthly standing order from her banking provider, not Halifax and 
it has no control or influence on this arrangement. For a standing order to be set up, Mrs K 
would have needed to provide her bank with the details of the savings account and 
instructions for the frequency and amounts of the payments. While Mrs K says she has no 
recollection of requesting this standing order to end after 12 months and that may be true, I 
cant hold Halifax responsible for the payment of this standing order not being set up as she 
wished. 
Its not clear why Mrs K hadnt noticed the monthly standing order for £100 hadnt been 
taken from her own bank account for around four years, given she would presumably have 
received regular bank statements from her banking provider and in addition she was sent 
statements annually from Halifax for her daughters savings account with them. So, its 
reasonable to say this could have been identified a lot sooner than it was here. From the information provided by Halifax to this service its clear it was not involved in the 
way in which Mrs K would fund her daughters savings account, this is left for her to arrange 
with her own bank, either by standing order or by any other means she wished to put in 
place. Neither would I expect Halifax to monitor month by month the arrangements Mrs K 
believed she had put in place here and if she feels any error has been made that is a matter 
she would need to take up with her own bank. 
I understand Halifax have agreed to pay Mrs K £100 for the poor service it provided when 
she lodged her complaint with them, and I will leave it with Mrs K to contact Halifax if she 
now wishes to accept that offer. 
While Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman