DRN-2245825
The complaint
Mr C says Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay him the correct sum due on his Optima Bike 
insurance policy after his vehicle was stolen in December 2018. 
What happened
Mr C said the bike was insured with Ageas for £3,000 in May 2018 and that hed paid for 
chrome parts for it worth £1,000 since then. Ageas said it thought the bike was only worth 
£475, after reviewing the valuations set out in national motor trade guides. Ageas also said 
its engineers thought Mr C hadnt provided evidence of comparable vehicles at higher prices 
or any receipts for new parts. And it said as Mr C hadnt disclosed any modifications to 
Ageas, the policy didnt cover them.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. He noted that Mr C had a market 
value policy and he checked that Ageas had relied on the correct valuations. He said as the 
policy excess payable by Mr C was £500  more than the bikes value  Ageas didnt have to 
pay him anything. The investigator noted that Mr C hadnt been able to provide evidence of 
the new parts he said hed fitted to the bike. He said modifications didnt always add value - 
and that it was fair for Ageas to say the policy wouldnt cover any undeclared modifications.
Mr C insisted that Ageas had agreed to insure the bike for £3,000, and that he couldnt 
replace it for £500. He said hed provided valuations from bike dealers in support of his 
claim. The investigator said hed called one of them, and it had told him Ageass valuation for 
Mr Cs bike was correct. The investigator said hed also checked online for comparisons to 
the bike, and none were valued at the price hed suggested. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy says the most Ageas will pay if a bike is stolen is its market value at the time of 
loss. Mr C thinks the bike was insured for £3,000, but that was just the sum he estimated it 
was worth when he took the policy out through a broker. 
We think the best way to establish a vehicles market value is to check the valuations set out 
in the trade guides. Theyre arrived at using extensive research of likely selling prices across 
the UK. Ageas did that - and it used the right figures from the guides. Mr C didnt provide 
adverts for similar bikes shown for sale at higher prices. But in any event, we dont think 
advertised prices are reliable indicators of selling prices, as theyre open to negotiation.  
Mr C provided a list of the chrome parts he said had been fitted to the bike, but he wasnt 
able to provide any receipts for them. I dont doubt that he kept the bike in good condition, 
but thats considered normal maintenance and doesnt add value to a vehicle. Its also the 
case that modifications often dont add value.
In this case, its possible they may have done, although I think the evidence of that is weak. 
Two dealers provided very brief notes to Mr C, simply stating that the value of the bike in 
their view was £2,500 - £3,000. But no reasoning was given for that  and it seems one of 
them later changed its mind about the valuation. Mr C cant prove how much he spent on the 
bike, nor did he tell Ageas hed made modifications to it. In these circumstances, I think it 
was reasonable for Ageas not to agree to increase the standard valuation. 
I can see why Mr C thinks Ageas didnt value the bike correctly, as it seems he hasnt been 
able to find a suitable replacement for the sum it placed on his vehicle. But I think Ageas 
acted reasonably in relying on the prices set out in the trade guides to establish the bikes 
likely market value. Ageass file notes show that an engineer was consulted about whether a 
higher sum for it could be justified - but in the absence of persuasive evidence from Mr C, 
that wasnt possible. Ageas also consulted its underwriters about the modifications before 
deciding not to offer him more.   
As I dont think Mr C has shown that Ageas acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman