DRN-3122013
The complaint
Mr P complains that a default recorded on his credit file by Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) is causing him problems. He would like it to be removed.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card account with Capital One. In 2016, he began to fall behind with 
repayments. He entered into a payment arrangement with Capital One in August 2016. In 
December 2016, Capital One defaulted the account. In 2018, it sold the account to a debt 
management company which Ill call L.
In 2021, Mr P made a complaint to Capital One. He explained that he was suffering with 
mental health conditions which affected his ability to work. He said he needed to move home 
but was struggling to find rental accommodation because of the default recorded on his 
credit file. He asked Capital One to remove the default and pay him some compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
Capital One didnt agree to do this. It thought it had defaulted the account correctly and said 
it had tried to reach out to Mr P during 2016 and had written to him asking him to get in 
touch. It said it didnt hear back from Mr P, so it defaulted the account in December that 
year. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr P wasnt happy with Capital Ones 
response and asked this service to look at the complaint. He said that L has agreed to write 
off the debt, but he still wants Capital One to remove the default.
Our Investigator didnt think Capital One needed to do anything here. But Mr P didnt agree 
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Capital Ones decision to default the account in December 2016 was 
reasonable in light of the number of missed payments, the amount outstanding and the fact 
that the nominal sum being repaid by Mr P from August 2016 was substantially less than the 
amount required to clear the arrears. Im also satisfied that Capital One made numerous 
attempts to contact Mr P about the arrears and gave him notice and chance to pay them off 
before defaulting the account.
Having defaulted the account, I dont think it was unfair for Capital One to report the default 
to the Credit Reference Agencies. Thats because it was an accurate record of the status of 
the account. I understand that the default is causing problems for Mr P at present and Im 
sorry to hear that. Ive carefully considered everything he has said about this. But I dont find 
that Capital One is obliged to remove the default. 
And I havent seen anything which indicates Capital One has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in any other way. I dont think it could have known about Mr Ps conditions and difficulties at 
the time it entered the default. So, for the reasons above, I think it was reasonable for it to 
default the account and report it to the Credit Reference Agencies. So, whilst I sympathise 
with Mr Ps position, Im afraid Im not going to ask Capital One to remove the default.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman