DRN-3956554
The complaint
Ms P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of her motor 
insurance claim. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms P made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Admiral after 
her car was damaged in an accident.
Admiral gave Ms P details of its approved repairers and asked her to call to book her vehicle 
in if they hadnt contacted her within 48 hours. The car was booked in for 6 April, which Ms P 
says was the earliest date available. However, this appointment was cancelled by the 
repairers at short notice. It was booked in for 25 April but was again cancelled at short 
notice. The repairers told Ms P the reason for postponing the repairs was due to an issue 
with getting parts. 
The repairers rearranged for Ms Ps car to be collected on 10 May. Ms P made 
arrangements for the car to be collected from her sisters address as Ms P was going away. 
However, the car wasnt collected as agreed. After some further communication issues, the 
car was collected on 17 May and Ms P was given a courtesy car. 
Ms P says the courtesy vehicle was very poorly presented. She says shed been promised a 
full tank of petrol as a goodwill gesture. But the car she received had only half a tank and 
she was told if shed been given a vehicle with a full tank, she would have been required to 
return it with a full tank. Ms P says the courtesy vehicle was much smaller than her own 
vehicle and wasnt suitable for her.
Ms P says she was told shed be updated once an inspection had been carried out on her 
vehicle, but she wasnt. Ms Ps car was kept at the repairers for almost a month. When it 
was returned, Ms P found various issues with the quality of the repairs.
Ms P raised several complaints with Admiral, but she didnt receive a full response until 
December 2022. Admiral agreed with some of the concerns Ms P had raised and said it was 
sending her a cheque for £200 to compensate her.
 
Ms P remained unhappy and asked our service to look into the matter. Our investigator 
recommended Admiral pay Ms P an additional £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
Ms P disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she didnt want her vehicle to be 
returned to Admirals approved repairers. She was concerned about the length of time it had 
been in their possession, the lack of communication and the poor standard of work carried 
out. She didnt think £350 was enough to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shed experienced. Shed expected it to be £700. So, her complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
On 21 February 2023, I emailed both parties to let them know why I intended to award a 
higher amount of compensation than our investigator had recommended. I said I thought a 
total of £500 would more fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience Ms P had 
experienced. I gave both parties two weeks to provide any further information or comments.
Admiral didnt respond with anything further. Ms P said she was delighted Id reached the 
same conclusions she had. But she was concerned about her vehicle being returned to 
Admirals approved repairers, given the standard of work they had previously carried out. 
She was concerned that her vehicle wouldnt be returned within a reasonable timescale and 
it wouldnt be repaired to a satisfactory standard. She asked that I instruct Admiral to have 
the repairs rectified and carried out at a repairer of her choice.
Ms P also commented that Admiral are under the impression that her vehicles repairs have 
been completed and have since closed the claim. She said she would expect the claim to be 
re-opened as opposed to an additional claim when further work is carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly.
Ms P says the earliest appointment she was given by the garage to book her car in was 6 
April 2022, which was more than six weeks after she made the claim. The car didnt go into 
the garage until 17 May (three months after the incident), after several appointments were 
cancelled at short notice. Admiral says this was due to difficulty getting parts, but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to show that the garage was proactively chasing for these.
I understand the repairs were completed on 14 June (four months after the incident) which 
meant Ms P was without her car for around four weeks. She understands that she wasnt 
entitled to a like for like replacement. However, shes unhappy with the length of time she 
was left with a vehicle that wasnt suitable for her needs. Its not clear why the car was in the 
garage for a month. Admiral has referred to a parts delay but its unclear what parts couldnt 
be identified from the assessment of images.
The garage has acknowledged that the repairs werent completed to an adequate standard. 
Ms P says the garage offered to carry out rectification work, but she didnt go ahead with this 
because she was waiting for a response from Admiral. She says she sent images to the 
garage on 7 July and received a voicemail on 3 August which she didnt reply to. 
I can understand why Ms P wanted to wait for a response to her complaint before agreeing 
to the garages offer. And she didnt receive a response from Admiral until December 2022, 
several months after shed brought her complaint to our service.
Admiral has acknowledged the delay in registering Ms Ps complaint despite her repeated 
contact. Its also acknowledged the poor customer service she received from its approved 
repairers, in addition to the repairs being inadequate. However, I dont think the £200 its 
paid her is enough to compensate Ms P for the distress and inconvenience, shes experienced as a result of the poor service shes received from Admiral and its agents. So, I 
think it would be fair for Admiral to pay Ms P another £300.
Ms P has asked that I instruct Admiral to have the rectification work carried out at a repairer 
of her choice. I appreciate that she doesnt trust Admirals approved repairers to carry out 
the work to a satisfactory standard within a reasonable timescale. However, Admirals 
approved repairers have accepted the repairs werent completed to a suitable standard and 
have shown that they were willing to put things right. So, I still think it would be reasonable to 
give them the opportunity to do so. 
Ms P is concerned about Admiral opening another claim when further work is carried out. 
This isnt something Id expect it to do as the rectification work relates to her original claim.
Putting things right
Admiral should:
Arrange for the rectification work to Ms Ps car to be carried out as soon as possible.
Pay Ms P a further £300 (in addition to the £200 its already paid her).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman