DRN-2076128
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Plc hasnt provided some information he asked for relating 
his current account and mishandled his request.
What happened
Mr M held a joint current account with HSBC which he credited but didnt use. For personal 
reasons, he needed HSBC to confirm that he had never activated the debit cards he was 
sent for the account. 
HSBC sent him a letter which said that the most recent card issued to Mr M in 2018 hadnt 
been activated. But Mr M also needed this confirmation for the previous card, and so he 
contacted HSBC again to request this. HSBC sent another letter, but again this referred to 
the most recent card. 
Mr M complained. He said hed had a card issued to him in 2015 and wanted confirmation 
that he hadnt activated it. But HSBC didnt have a record of this card, so couldnt confirm the 
details Mr M wanted. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that HSBC had said that there hadnt been a card generated for Mr M in 2015, so it was 
understandable why it wasnt able to send him a letter about this.
 
However, Mr M had kept the cards he was sent for the account and provided photos of 
these. These showed that he had been sent a card in 2015, which would have expired in 
2018. He said it was concerning that HSBC had issued a debit card but then claimed it 
hadnt.
The investigator said that providing a letter about whether a card was active or not wasnt a 
service HSBC would normally offer. And the information it had for Mr Ms account records 
only showed the one card issued to him, so it couldnt provide Mr M with a letter about the 
card issued in 2015.
Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He said it was imperative to investigate how a 
card has been sent to him which HSBC doesnt have knowledge of.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate the reasons why Mr M wants this information confirming by HSBC. And I can 
understand that it will be frustrating not to be able to get the letter he needs for the previous 
card, when he has evidence that it was issued to him.
We have provided this evidence to HSBC to see if it would help trace the card and therefore 
whether it would be willing to write Mr M a letter confirming that it hadnt been activated. 
However, it doesnt have the details of this card on the records for Mr Ms account. 
I would say that issuing such a letter isnt a usual account service HSBC provides, however, 
it has confirmed the details Mr M requested for the most recent card.
Ive considered the account information HSBC holds for the cards issued on this closed 
account, and this only shows the most recent card. It doesnt include any details of the 
previous card that wouldve expired.
 
I appreciate that Mr M would like to know why this is, however the reason why isnt clear 
from the available details. And I wouldnt expect HSBC to look confirm whether that 
particular card was activated or not, when it isnt something it is able to evidence. 
Essentially, HSBC doesnt have the information Mr M needs about this previous card.
I know that Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and concerned about not having the 
information he wants, and Im sorry for that. But I cant fairly require HSBC to provide him 
with the letter he needs about the debit card, when it doesnt have a record of the 
information about it.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman