DRN-3029266
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1988. Mr and Mrs R says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think B&B made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because B&B has provided a copy of the paperwork 
available from the time of the sale. The mortgage application had a separate section 
where the option to take the PPI has been selected. The application form has also been 
signed in agreement with the selections that were made.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs R enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs R  for example 
they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt 
too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information 
they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs R 
would have declined the cover had B&B done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant B&B should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means B&B doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman