DRN-1133717
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) gave them the 
wrong figure for the monthly payments theyd have to pay if they used the offset facility of 
their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R went to L&C for advice about remortgaging their existing property. It was 
identified that they had an interest in products that were fixed for five years and that would 
allow them to offset their savings against the mortgage, with the aim to reduce the monthly 
payments (rather than reduce the mortgage term).
They borrowed £275,000 on a repayment basis over a 14-year term. The rate is fixed at 
1.89% until 29 February 2024 and they opted to add the £999 product fee to the mortgage.
After the mortgage completed Mr and Mrs R complained to L&C as the monthly payments 
they were being asked for  after putting £150,000 into the linked offset savings account  
were a lot higher than the adviser had said theyd be. Theyd been told it would be £847 a 
month, whereas they had to pay £1,400 a month.
L&C apologised for its mistake and offered £300 compensation. It said Mr and Mrs R 
couldnt have achieved a payment of £847 a month unless they extended the mortgage 
term, something it offered to arrange for them. Mr and Mrs R didnt want that, they wanted 
L&C to either pay the early repayment charge to allow them to come out of the mortgage 
early, or to pay the extra amount they say theyll have to pay for the full 14-year term.
Our investigator felt L&Cs offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Mr and Mrs R were led to believe 
that their monthly repayment (after offsetting) would be lower than it actually is. This is a 
mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this 
type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would 
be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they 
would be in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mr and Mrs R would have been told what the 
actual payment theyd need to make was. Mr and Mrs R could never have been in the 
position where they only needed to repay the (wrong) lower figure.
Just by looking at the maths, the figure of £847 a month could never have been right for a 
14 year (that is, 168 month) repayment mortgage. Thats because, even if Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage was interest-free (that is, they put £275,999 savings into the linked offset account, 
rather than the £150,000), then theyd have to pay around £1,643 a month just to repay the 
amount of money theyd borrowed. Thats £275,999 divided by the 168 months the mortgage 
was set to run for. If theyd paid just £847 a month for the 168-month term, then theyd only 
have repaid £142,296 so theyd still owe £133,703 at the end.
Irrespective of what lender Mr and Mrs R went to the lowest amount they could pay each 
month (so thats equivalent to an interest-free mortgage) over a 14-year term would have 
been around £1,643 a month. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs R might have done differently had they been 
given the correct information. L&C has already offered to arrange to extend the term of the 
mortgage to decrease the payments, which Mr and Mrs R didnt want to do. Ive looked at 
what other rates there were available in the market at the time. Not many lenders offered 
offset mortgages that allowed you to pay less each month and of the ones that did the 
mortgage selected for Mr and Mrs R had the lowest five-year fixed interest rate at the time. 
Even putting aside the offset facility, the mortgage rate Mr and Mrs R have (at 1.89%) was 
one of the lowest five-year fixed interest rates available in the market at the time.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that if Mr and Mrs R had been given the correct 
information at the time about their monthly payments then they would have chosen to still 
proceed with this mortgage.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made 
in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £300 compensation already 
offered by L&C is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider L&C made a fair 
offer. I leave it to Mr and Mrs R to decide if  on reflection  they now wish to accept that 
directly with L&C. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman