DRN-2959584
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the service provided by British Gas Services Limited (BG) when he 
claimed about a dishwasher fault under his appliance insurance policy  
What happened
 Mr R had an insurance policy with BG which provides for the repair of kitchen appliances or 
replacement if it cant be fixed.
Mr R reported a fault with his dishwasher on 4 March 2019. An engineer attended on 14 
March. There were repeated issues sourcing parts and several unsuccessful visits from 
engineers. Mr R said he had to make many calls to chase things up. On 2 May an engineer 
attended but didnt make a repair as he was worried about damaging the fitted kitchen 
around the dishwasher. Mr R had to arrange for a kitchen fitter to come and remove and 
subsequently refit the items, which he said cost £100. 
On 21 May an engineer attended but the repair couldnt be completed. The next day BG 
decided to replace the machine. After a week Mr R chased things up and was told to call a 
different department, who didnt know anything about it. After further chasing by Mr R a new 
dishwasher was installed on 7 June. 
Mr R complained about the poor service and the inconvenience caused by three months of 
delays, including several weeks with a portion of his kitchen dismantled. BG apologised. It 
said the problem sourcing parts which had caused most of the delay was outside its control. 
This led it to offer to replace the dishwasher even though it was probably repairable. It said 
the policy didnt cover works required to access appliances. It offered Mr R £130 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R didnt think this was adequate as hed paid £100 to the kitchen fitter and been messed 
about. He thought £300 was a reasonable figure and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it. Initially he took the view that the £130 offered in respect of the 
poor service Mr R had suffered was inadequate and recommended a further £70 be paid to 
give £200 in total. 
BG disagreed. It said that in addition to the £130 compensation it had also covered the cost 
of installing the new dishwasher and removing the old one. This cost £106 but wasnt 
covered under the policy. This meant Mr R had already received £236 in compensation. Our 
investigator updated his view saying this was fair and reasonable as it was more than he 
would recommend in the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed and raised a number of points. He felt as it was BG who decided to replace 
rather than repair the dishwasher, the removal and installation costs shouldnt come into it. 
Also, as most kitchens now have integrated appliances, work to access them is part of the 
job. He said by repairing or replacing the dishwasher BG was only doing what the contract 
required. So, compensation should cover the poor service issues, delays and inconvenience 
he had suffered, not aspects that were necessary to deliver on the contract.
As Mr R doesnt agree the complaint has passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 30 April 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see why Mr R was annoyed and frustrated by the delays and frequent need to chase 
progress. Some degree of inconvenience is inevitable when an appliance breaks down, but I 
think Mr R suffered more trouble and upset than he should have. I need to consider what is 
and isnt covered by the policy (as set out in the Policy Schedule and the Terms and 
Conditions -T&Cs) to see how the service he received compared to what could be 
reasonably expected. 
I havent seen any evidence in these documents of anticipated service timeframes other than 
that these will be reasonable. Cut off points for a repair to be abandoned and a 
replacement provided instead dont appear to be set out either. I appreciate that incorrect 
parts were initially supplied and resulted in delays that werent BGs fault. But the delay was 
lengthy, so I think the decision by BG to replace the machine to avoid further delays was 
reasonable. 
I have some sympathy with Mr Rs view that installation of the new machine and removal of 
the old should be part of the package given it was BGs decision to replace rather than 
repair. But this is specifically and clearly excluded in the policy under the section Whats not 
included:
  Disconnecting and disposing of your old appliance, or unpacking or installing
new ones
So, in covering these costs BG did more than it needed to under the policy.
I also agree with Mr Rs view that in most modern kitchens some degree of removal and 
refitting of plinths, trims, doors and so on will be needed to access the larger kitchen 
appliances covered by this type of policy. BG told our investigator this isnt covered under 
the policy referring to a general exclusion on page 30 of the T&Cs:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
Or prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over
I dont agree that a kitchen appliance installed in kitchen cabinetry or behind wooden plinths 
and so on could be considered to be either a design fault or permanently built over. The 
previous point under this clause gives the example of incorrectly installed pipes buried under 
concrete floors. So, I wouldnt think this exclusion could be reasonably applied to Mr Rs 
dishwasher.
However, the T&Cs also set out on page 29 under the section headed Making repairs the 
following: 
Getting access and making goodIn addition to the cost of parts and labour, our insurance products and our
non-insurance service and repair warranty products cover up to £1,000 including 
VAT for getting access and making good.
This clearly suggests that the expenses Mr R incurred from his kitchen fitter are covered by 
the policy. Mr R says these were £100. So, BGs goodwill gesture on the installation and 
removal is largely offset by the error here and Mr R has received around £136 compensation 
rather than £236.
I think Mr R has had some trouble and upset caused by delays that were in BGs control and 
he had to make many calls to chase things up. The handling of the complaint also caused Mr 
R frustration as the policy does provide relevant cover when BG said it did not. Taking this 
into account I think overall compensation of £250 would be fair and reasonable for the 
inconvenience he has suffered.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 May 2020.
Response to provisional decision
BG said: It disagreed with the provisional decision. It said It is not clear if the appliance in 
question is integrated, my understanding is that a cupboard has been
built around it. 
BG also said:
the getting access and making good clause in the policy which provides up to 
£1,000 including VAT, I dont agree this should be applied in this case, this clause is 
there to cover costs locating a problem/fault, for example making access through 
concrete floors to locate a leaking pipe. In this case, we had already identified the 
issue, we simply couldnt carry out the repair/replacement because the cupboard 
around the dishwasher prevented us from doing so.
Mr R said: He accepted the provisional decision. He confirmed that the appliance was a 
conventional integrated dishwasher, with timber door attached, plinth below and timber fillet 
pieces either side and above the door. He said when he took the policy out, he had been 
required to confirm the make and model number of the dishwasher so BG knew from outset 
it was an integrated model. He says the engineer had removed the wooden parts to access 
the machine but then wasnt confident he could reinstate them properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in line with my provisional decision. I 
apologise to both Mr R and BG for the length of time they have been waiting for my decision.
I dont think Mr R dishwasher was fitted in an unusual manner and it wasnt permanently 
built over so I dont think it was reasonable to say it couldnt be accessed because of a 
cupboard built around it. Even if BGs engineer wasnt able to do access and refit the dishwasher, I dont agree with 
BGs interpretation that the clause under Getting access and making good doesnt apply 
here. BG Says it is:
there to cover costs in locating a problem  In this case we had already identified 
the issue.
I disagree because the clause doesnt say that it covers only identification of problems. So, I 
dont think it is reasonable for BG to add this requirement now.
BG then provides an example of what the clause would cover:
 making access through concrete floors to locate a leaking pipe. 
This argument means that work to physically access, repair and make good a pipe buried in 
concrete, that could be leaking is covered, but removing and refitting a wooden plinth or fillet 
to physically access and repair a visibly leaking pipe isnt covered.  I dont think that is 
reasonable.
As the engineer didnt feel confident in refitting the woodwork removed to access the 
dishwasher, I think this clause does apply here and Mr Rs costs should have been covered.
 
I think Mr R has been inconvenienced more than he should have been, and it is fair and 
reasonable that BG should pay further compensation of £114 to give £250 overall.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is I uphold 
the complaint against British Gas Services Limited.
I direct it to pay Mr R a further £114 to bring the total compensation paid to £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman