DRN-3910195
The complaint
Mr H complains that Metro Bank PLC quoted him with the wrong exchange rate which 
influenced his decision to buy a house overseas.
What happened
Mr H contacted Metro Bank to transfer funds from his United States Dollar (USD) account to 
a third party account to be able to make an offer on a property. He says he was told the 
exchange rate would be 8.9037, which he accepted. He says he was told a deduction of 
$168,469.29 would be made from his account to be able to transfer the funds needed to 
make an affordable offer on the house. Mr H says he budgeted for this and made an offer on 
the property based on the figures quoted, however, the following day he received a phone 
call from Metro to inform him that the exchange rate had changed, and it was now 7.2966 
and this would mean $205,575.19 would be deducted from his account. Mr H says he told 
them they have to hold the transfer and he made a complaint to Metro Bank. He later agreed 
to the transfer being made.
Metro Bank upheld Mr Hs complaint. They said that the call handler made an error and 
quoted the exchange rate in Pounds Sterling (GBP)  instead of the local currency. They said 
that the exchange rate was flagged up and payment was rejected. This happened the 
following day as he had initially instructed the payment after the cut off time of 2pm, and 
therefore the payment was not processed by their system until the following day. Metro Bank 
said they contacted Mr H to confirm the error and to make the payment for him. They offered 
Mr H £500 compensation and £25 refund of the international transfer fee. Mr H brought his 
complaint to our service and accepted the £25 refund of the fee, but not the £500 
compensation.
Our investigator said £500 compensation was fair. He said Metro Bank incorrectly quoted 
the exchange rate which led to the wrong amount being quoted to be debited from Mr Hs 
account. He said Mr H challenged the quoted exchange rate as it didnt match what he was 
seeing on a third party foreign exchange platform and he said there was a difference of 
$30,000, so he believed it was fair to say Mr H was reasonably aware that the exchange rate 
given was wrong. 
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he made several financial arrangements and budgets based on the 
exchange rate offered by Metro Bank. He said the funds to be transferred were for the 
purchase of a property, and then due to the rate being confirmed to him, he needed to make 
several financial commitments to several companies, which included credit cards, loans and 
caused him general money based problems (based on him being overseas at the time). He 
said he repeatedly asked the original call handler for assurance that the exchange rate was 
correct for the funds to be transferred the following day. Mr H said he found the 
compensation offer to be laughable and insulting considering he had to subsequently 
transfer $30,000 more than he was expecting to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive had a listen to the initial phone call that Mr H had with the Metro Bank call handler. On 
this call, Mr H asks is there a limit as I need to transfer $200,000. The call handler confirms 
there is no limit. Mr H asks so can you just tell me the rate please, so if I transferred 
$200,000, the call handler cuts in and says it does change every second and Mr H asks 
you dont set a day rate, you set a live rate? which the call handler confirms. Mr H asks 
what that is now so he can compare it with a third party exchange rate. The call handler tells 
him, but he says that what she quoted doesnt make any sense, so the call handler asks him 
what he was getting via a third party. Mr H tells her that $200,000 would get him nearly 
treble what the third party would give him. Mr H asks the call handler if she could guarantee 
that rate. She replies she obviously cant guarantee anything, and Mr H asks if whatever 
the rate is at the point of transfer they would give him that rate, and the call handler confirms 
this. While the call handler is checking Mr Hs account to see if the beneficiary is already set 
up, her system crashes and he is transferred to a colleague. 
Mr H tells the new call handler he wants to transfer $200,000. After completing security, the 
call handler asks if Mr H wanted to send the payment in pounds sterling or local currency, 
and he confirms it is local currency depending on the rate. She says I can see the current 
rate is 8.9037, Ill just work out what that is now. She asks if he wanted the beneficiary to 
receive 200,000, but she doesnt say in what currency, although Mr H mentions $200,000. 
Mr H asks if it could be sent in the local currency and the call handler confirms what the 
recipient would be likely to receive on 200,000 (again with no mention of currency). The call 
handler says with the exchange rate 8.9037, that means the amount to be debited is one 
hundred and sixty eight thousand, four hundred and sixty nine pounds and twenty nine 
pence (£168,469.29), Mr H replies yeah, perfect, can we go ahead with that please. 
Mr H asks the call handler if the rate is confirmed or whether it would be sent at the following 
days rate as he missed the deadline and the call handler says it will be converted at the rate 
of it at the time the payment is sent, itll be tomorrow but its normally not that much 
different. 
From listening to what was agreed with Metro Bank, its clear to me that there was a 
miscommunication. Mr H was talking about USD, whereas the call handler was talking about 
GBP. He was told that £168,469.29 would be deducted from his account. The call handler 
clearly said the words pounds and pence. Mr H then told the call handler yeah, perfect, can 
we go ahead with that please. I can sympathise why Mr H didnt realise that she had used 
these words as he asked to send $200,000 and GBP was not instructed by Mr H at anytime 
during the phone call.
Metro Bank called Mr H later that day to confirm the details, but the call handler only 
mentioned the amount to be sent in the foreign currency and the details of the beneficiary. 
They did not mention the exchange rate, they just confirmed the amount in the local 
currency, and this is why the issue with the exchange rate wasnt picked up here. The 
following day Metro Bank gave Mr H another phone call. The call handler tells him that there 
is a significant change in the exchange rate and the rate may change again. Mr H says that 
there is about $35,000 difference. The call handler said he wouldnt have been promised that 
rate, but Mr H asks that the call is checked as he said the rate was confirmed. Mr H asks for the payment to be held. On the next call, when the call handler rings him back, he tells the 
call handler that he has to make the transfer that day. 
On the call after this, Mr H is told that he was quoted GBP and that he should have been 
quoted an exchange rate of 7.2966 instead. They explained that there had been no financial 
loss as the money had not been sent. Mr H says that they verified the rate when they called 
him back. The call handler adds information to Mr Hs complaint and confirms the details of 
the international transfer after Mr H agrees to send the payment. She calls back again later 
in the day to confirm that the payment has been made and reiterates he had no financial 
loss. 
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint, considering everything that 
happened. Mr H was not told that the exchange rate was guaranteed. Each call handler he 
spoke to confirmed this, although the call handler he spoke to who attempted to process the 
payment in pounds sterling said that it would normally be not that much different. He did not 
suffer a material loss in the sense that the original transfer had not been sent and the actual 
rate was told to him the following day. Mr H did agree later on for the payment to be sent for 
just over $205,000 (although it appears the rate had changed again when the funds were 
sent as it appears $202,826.04 was debited from his account). It appears that originally he 
was expecting to make a payment for $200,000 as this is what he originally asked them to 
send. He did not need to agree to the new amount to be sent and he could have looked at 
more favourable exchange rates with third parties, but he still chose to transfer the funds 
knowing the different exchange rate. 
It would not be proportionate for me to ask Metro Bank to honour the previous exchange rate 
as this was quoted in GBP and Mr H was never eligible for that rate to be sent in the 
currency he wanted it to be sent. The call handler told Mr H the amount in pounds and pence 
would be deducted from his account and he agreed to it. But Im persuaded that Metro Bank 
did let him down by not clearly listening to Mr H. And while they didnt say the exchange rate 
was fixed as they made it clear it changed frequently, it would still be distressing for Mr H to 
find out he had been quoted a wrong exchange rate  and the figures quoted would be very 
different to what he then budgeted for.
As a result of what happened, this caused Mr H to make several financial commitments to 
several companies, and included credit cards, loans and caused him general money based 
problems (based on him being overseas at the time), which would have been very 
distressing as he incorrectly thought (but for understandable reasons) that $168,469.29 or 
around that figure would have been deducted from his account and not a considerable 
amount more than that figure. 
Ive considered that Mr H thinks the £500 compensation which has been offered to him is 
laughable and an insult. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes 
award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and 
inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. 
When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
Im persuaded that £500 that Metro Bank offered recognises the impact for what happened 
here and is within our guidelines. I say this because while the situation lasted only a day or 
two from Mr H being told the incorrect information to being told the correct information, this 
had further consequences based on Mr Hs individual circumstances at the time. When he 
was told the incorrect information, he then needed to pull together financing from multiple 
sources to ensure that the offer he had made on a property was covered. This would have 
been very distressing for him at a generally stressful time (buying a house), not to mention 
that the property was overseas. So Im satisfied that Metro Bank should pay Mr H the £500 they offered him, but it follows I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr H £500. But I wont be requiring them 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman