DRN-3554932
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc are charging more than the monthly payment
he agreed as part of a repayment plan and that they are discriminating against him due to
him being disabled.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Capital One. Capital One wrote to Mr C in 2019 to say he was in
persistent debt. Mr C was unhappy about this  weve dealt with a complaint he made about
this  but in April 2020 both sides agreed a repayment plan. The repayment plan was meant
to help Mr C reduce his outstanding balance more quickly than he would have done if hed
only made minimum repayments to the account. Both sides agreed a repayment plan that
would allow Mr C to continue to spend on his card  in other words, his account wasnt
suspended.
Mr C says that Capital One keep increasing his repayment plan monthly payment, even
when he doesnt spend anything on the card. Mr C says that he needs to use his card
sometimes to buy essential items such as food and that Capital One are being inhumane
and immoral to make him pay more than the agreed monthly payment  and that Capital
One is being greedy and profiteering. He says that they are discriminating against him as a
result of this and complained about this.
Mr C wants his email address to be his username to log into his account, but he says Capital
One keep blaming their technology for not being able to update this which he feels is
discriminatory as he is disabled. Mr C complained about this too.
Capital One did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that they had agreed a repayment
plan with Mr C to pay £51.62 for 47 months, but as he chose a repayment plan which
allowed him to continue to spend on his card, they said hed also need to make a monthly
payment towards any new spending in addition to his monthly payment. Capital One said
that the amount he needed to pay towards any new spending would be calculated at 3%
plus interest and fees.
Capital One also said that they could remove the repayment plan from his account, but this
would mean his credit card would be suspended until the outstanding balance was repaid.
Capital One said they were unable to make a reasonable adjustment to give Mr C longer to
pay, but they gave Mr C the telephone number to their collections team if he needed support
to make his payments.
Capital One said that it wasnt possible for them to change Mr Cs username as the
username was generated from information he provided during his application. But they did
say if this feature became available in the future, then they would be in touch with him.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He
said that due to the repayment plan which Mr C had agreed with Capital One, he could still
use his card, but this would increase the monthly repayment to them.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said that Capital One had not complied with their duty to make reasonable
adjustments under section 20 of the Equality Act 2010, as there was nowhere in the account
features for a disabled person to tell Capital One that they were disabled, so Capital One
wouldnt be aware of this. Mr C also said that Capital One had not been adhering to the
repayment plan he agreed as they were charging more than the agreed monthly payment.
Mr C also asked why Capital One had not shown him compassion when charging him for
purchases such as food. Finally Mr C said that Capital One were in charge of their own
technology so they should be able to change his username.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to both Capital One and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body, Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here. For ease of reading Ill detail my decision in two parts  Mr Cs financial
difficulties and the discrimination/reasonable adjustments hes asked for on Capital Ones
system.
Mr Cs financial difficulties
When a customer is in financial difficulties, we would expect a business to show forbearance
and to try and work with their customer to find a solution to their financial difficulties. In light
of this, Ive considered what Mr C has said about Capital One charging him more than he
had agreed under his repayment plan.
Capital One wrote to Mr C in April 2020 explaining the terms of his repayment plan  Ive
seen a copy of that letter which appears to have been sent by email. The letter explains that
Mr Cs repayment plan involves making monthly payments of £51.62 for 47 months. In
addition, the letter explains that if Mr C uses the credit card for everyday purchases, then he
would need to make an additional monthly repayment to any new spending. Finally, the letter
explains that Mr C was still going to be charged interest on his outstanding balance  at a
rate of 30.34%.
The letter explains how his credit agreement would change in light of this. It explains that
even on the occasion that Mr C did not use his credit card for purchases, he would be paying
towards his non-repayment plan balance (for example purchases he made after the
repayment plan he agreed to, until this was fully repaid) and this is why his monthly
repayment was higher than £51.62.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr C has, that this is inhumane as he needs to use the
credit card to pay for essential items such as food and Ive read all hes said about the
struggles this is causing him. But Capital One are entitled to charge interest on purchases in
line with Mr Cs credit agreement/agreed repayment plan  and entitled to charge an
additional monthly repayment to any new spending.
As Ive already mentioned, when a customer is in financial difficulties, we would expect a
business to show forbearance and to try and work with their customer to find a solution to
their financial difficulties. Here, Capital One agreed a repayment plan which was affordable
for Mr C. They also allowed Mr C to keep the card active, as Mr C had told them he needed
to use the card for essential items. While cancelling the card would have ensured Mr C couldhave paid off his balance quicker as the outstanding balance wouldnt increase anymore,
they took into account Mr Cs individual circumstances and agreed to his request to keep the
account open, clearly setting out in their letter to him that this means your balance could
increase, which will make your minimum monthly payment bigger. This is because, in
addition to your monthly Repayment Plan amount, your minimum payment will also include a
monthly payment towards those new transactions.
I would expect Capital One to increase Mr Cs minimum monthly repayment if he spends on
the card. I say this as if Mr C kept spending on the card, even for essential items, his
outstanding balance will grow. So, if he only paid the £51.62 a month, it would take longer
and cost him more, to pay back the outstanding balance.
Mr C also has the option to cancel the repayment plan if the repayments are too high for
him. Although this would prevent him using the card again, his outstanding balance would
not rise due to purchases. As Ive previously mentioned, if Mr C is struggling with meeting
his repayments, then he should contact Capital One on the telephone numbers they have
already provided to see how they can assist him moving forward with this.
In summary, Ive seen no evidence that Capital One are charging Mr C more than what has
been agreed. They are charging him £51.62 each month as part of the repayment plan and
3% (plus interest and fees) of his non-repayment plan balance.
Discrimination/Reasonable adjustments on Mr Cs online account
Mr C has complained that Capital One is discriminating against him and have also failed to
make reasonable adjustments for him. In other words, they have breached the Equality Act
2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that
its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and
reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision that Capital One has breached the Equality Act 2010,
then hed need to go to Court.
Mr C has complained that Capital Ones approach isnt helpful to someone with a disability
like him  and its technology in particular. Hes said, for example, that Capital One ought to
allow customers to contact them through their account features section to let them know if
they have a disability. And hes unhappy that Capital One has said it cant change his
username to his email address because of the way their technology works. He was unhappy
hed received hard copy letters too  in light of Covid  when he was happy to provide an
email address.
Weve asked Capital One what they can and cannot do, and how they operate. I cant say,
taking everything both sides have said into account, that Capital One has been unfair or
unreasonable here. I agree with Mr C, for example, that it would be helpful if customers
could let Capital One know they have a disability in the way hes suggested, but that hasnt
stopped Mr C from being able to let Capital One know about his own disability as there are
other ways he was able to do this. And I cant say his disability would affect him entering his
username in the format Capital One currently require him to do so. I can also see Capital
One sent Mr C correspondence in a large font format as a reasonable adjustment, and I
think they were right to do so. So, it follows I do not intend to ask Capital One to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Capital One said they had no comments to add to the provisional decision. Mr C 
did not accept the provisional decision. He made a number of points. In summary, Mr C said 
that he had to use the credit card, or he wouldnt be able to eat in some cases. He finds the 
Capital One policies to be unlawful, immoral and inhumane. Mr C said that Capital One can change their technology such as other banks have done, in terms of email address logins 
and to take into account disability issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about Capital Ones policies being unlawful, immoral and 
inhumane. But if Mr C wants a decision that Capital One have been unlawful, then hed need 
to go to Court. In terms of their policies being immoral and inhumane, I said the following in 
my provisional decision Capital One are entitled to charge interest on purchases in line with 
Mr Cs credit agreement/agreed repayment plan  and entitled to charge an additional 
monthly repayment to any new spending.
As Ive already mentioned, when a customer is in financial difficulties, we would expect a
business to show forbearance and to try and work with their customer to find a solution to
their financial difficulties. Here, Capital One agreed a repayment plan which was affordable
for Mr C. They also allowed Mr C to keep the card active, as Mr C had told them he needed
to use the card for essential items. While cancelling the card would have ensured Mr C could
have paid off his balance quicker as the outstanding balance wouldnt increase anymore,
they took into account Mr Cs individual circumstances and agreed to his request to keep the
account open, clearly setting out in their letter to him that this means your balance could
increase, which will make your minimum monthly payment bigger. This is because, in
addition to your monthly Repayment Plan amount, your minimum payment will also include a
monthly payment towards those new transactions.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about Capital One being able to change their technology 
such as other banks have done, in terms of email address logins and to take into account 
disability issues. 
As I said in my provisional decision about this issue  I agree with Mr C, for example, that it 
would be helpful if customers could let Capital One know they have a disability in the way 
hes suggested, but that hasnt stopped Mr C from being able to let Capital One know about 
his own disability as there are other ways he was able to do this. And I cant say his disability 
would affect him entering his username in the format Capital One currently require him to do 
so. I can also see Capital One sent Mr C correspondence in a large font format as a 
reasonable adjustment, and I think they were right to do so.
In summary, Mr Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman