DRN-1439886
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were mis-sold a whole of life policy by a predecessor of Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited. The CMC says the lack of any paperwork to support the sale and its 
excessive cost means it was unsuitable and a full refund of premiums, plus interest, should 
be made.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were sold the policy in 1990. As noted, related documentation is limited and 
only an application form exists from the time of the sale. From this we know that at the time 
Mr and Mrs D were aged 52 and 48 respectively. Mr D was self-employed and Mrs D wasn't 
working. They had one dependent son, aged 9.
The policy started with a monthly premium of £25 providing just under £19,000 of life cover. 
The premium was on a 'low start' basis, so increased by 10% each year for the first five 
years. It also included accidental death benefit at 50% of the general life cover.
The policy was set up on a maximum basis, so the sum assured was guaranteed for the first 
10 years from which point on the policy was regularly reviewed to determine whether the 
premiums would continue to support the sum assured. At the first of these reviews, in 2000, 
the sum assured was reduced. But from then on Mr and Mrs D generally accepted the 
increases in premiums needed to maintain the sum assured. 
Mr and Mrs D made a complaint to Sun Life in 2015 about the reviews, but it wasn't upheld 
and they continued on with the policy, which is still in operation today. They made their new 
complaint, through the CMC, in 2019 and it was treated as a concern about the general 
suitability of the policy. Again, Sun Life didn't uphold the complaint. It felt that given their 
circumstances, Mr and Mrs D had required life cover in 1990 and for an indefinite period and 
the whole of life policy was a suitable means by which to provide this.
The CMC didn't accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator 
also didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged the lack of 
documentation, but noted that Mr and Mrs D had completed a questionnaire to give further 
background to the complaint and this had highlighted that they'd wanted life cover. It also 
recorded that the only additional funds available to them at the time was 'redundancy 
money'. He therefore felt that the policy had been a suitable way to provide general life cover 
to protect each other and their child.
In respect of the cost issue, the investigator noted that the way the policy worked had been 
explained to Mr and Mrs D in response to their earlier complaint about the reviews. He 
stressed that the cost of providing cover increased with the policyholders' ages.
The CMC didn't accept the investigator's view.  It said, in brief:It was a regulatory requirement to know your client and it was not clear why Sun Life 
no longer had the required documentation. 
It wasn't reasonable to rely upon a questionnaire completed 30 years after the sale. 
The premiums were extraordinarily high, a point which had been dismissed.
There was no recorded attitude to risk for Mr and Mrs D or evidence that Sun Life 
knew their client so it could make a suitable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs D had a limited income for which a reviewable whole of life policy wasn't 
suitable.  
A term assurance policy should've been considered, or their financial circumstances 
should've been allowed to settle before any recommendation.
The fact that they've continued with the policy has no bearing upon its original 
suitability. 
It was set up on a maximum basis for 10 years, suggesting they only required cover 
for that sort of term until their son became independent. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's unfortunate that there's very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But an 
absence of documentation doesn't necessarily render a recommendation unsuitable. There's 
still a consideration of what's known about the wider circumstances to be made. And in 
doing so in this case I don't think the recommendation to take out the whole of life policy was 
unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs clearly had a need for life cover. They've said they had no other protection in 
place, and they had a nine-year dependent child. Had anything happened to them the cover 
would have been of great benefit.
I note the concerns about cost. But the policy featured 'low start' premiums to make it more 
affordable and, being on a maximum basis, the cover was guaranteed for the first ten years. 
As there's no documentation, there's no clear indication what, if any, alternatives were 
discussed. I accept that a term assurance policy would've been another way of providing the 
cover. And while taking out cover until the point at which Mr and Mrs D's child became 
independent would've been reasonable, the fact that they've chosen to maintain the cover 
for thirty years, despite the rising cost and having made a complaint in 2015, I think it's 
difficult to say now that limiting the term was something they would've wanted to do. 
In respect of the cost, I accept the premiums have been high. But it's worth noting that Mr 
and Mrs D were 52 and 48 when the policy started, so Mr D is now in his 80s. So, cover for 
thirty years at that stage of life would've been costly in any event. And I note Mr and Mrs D 
have accepted a series of increases in premium since the point when their son would've 
become independent.
In respect of their attitude to risk, while - as noted - there's no indication of how this was 
determined, it does appear that Mr and Mr D chose to commit their premiums to a selection 
of more specialist funds, not the default managed fund, which suggests a degree of 
engagement with how the policy would work and be invested that supports a finding that it 
was something they wanted to take out.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman